Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5538-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHI NA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 15, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This- documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only- in the performance of
their offiiXl duties. Its contents way not otheirwrise be disclosed withoeut World Bank authorization.



CURRECY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit    - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00          = Y 2.80
Y 1.00           =  US$0.36
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)      =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)   =  2.47 acres
1 ton            =  1,000 kg
=  2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)  =  2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AAAFB     -  Anhui Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries Bureau
ABC       -  Agricultural Bank of China
AWRB      - Anhui Water Resources Bureau
CCL       -  Critical Consumption Level
CNTIC     -  China National Technical Import Corporation
GA        -  General Administration
ITC      -  International Tendering Company (of CNTIC)
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB       -  Local Competitive Bidding
kV        -  kilovolt
kW        -  kilowatt
MCA       -  Main Canal Area
MWREP     -  Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
M m3      - million cubic meter
MW        - megawatt
m3/sec    -  cubic meter per second
PCB       -  People's Construction Bank
PMO       -  Project Management Office
ppm       -  parts per million
PU        -  Project Unit
SOE       -  Statement of expenditure
SPC       -  State Planning Council
sq.km    -  square kilometer
SC        -  Steering Committee
TAG       -  Technical Advisory Group
WRB       - Water Resources Bureau
WSO       - Work Supervision Office



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
r.  B    A     C     KGROUND ..................................................  I
Introduction .............................................         I
Agriculture and Water Resources in China    .        .1....... 
Bank Lending for Agriculture and Water
Resource Development                  ..5 
Project Formulation and Rationale             .        .          6
II.  THE PROJECT AREA .      .      ..........................................  7
Location .................................................        7
Climate                          . .   7
Topography and Soils                   . .                        7
Farm Size and Land Use                  ..                        9
Existing Water Conservancy Facilities ....................        9
Irrigation Area Organizations               ..                   11
Infrastructure and Support Services       ............           11
III.  THE PROJECT ....     ..     ................................ ........ ...  14
Project Description                    ..                        14
Pishihang Irrigation System                ..                    15
Chaohu Flood Control System                ..                    16
Rural Development                     ..                         17
Rural Credit .............................................    19
Training and Technical Assistance             .        .         19
Water Supply, Demand and Quality              .       .          21
Status of Design ........* ................................    21
ImpLementation Schedule                 ..            .          22
Cost Estimates   ........... . .......................... .... * .  22
Financing ................................................    23
Procurement ..............................................    24
Disbursement           ........................  25
Accounts and Audits                    ..                        27
Environmental Effects ....................................       27
This report is based on the findings of a preparation mission to China in May
1984 and an appraisal mission in November 1984. Members of the preparation
mission were T.B. Wiens, L.S. Tay (IDA) and C. Liu (Consultant); The
appraisal mission comprised Messrs. W.T. Smith, Wiens and Tay (IDA).
Ms. P. Harrell (Consultant) also contributed.
Thi docmn has a restictd distrtion and may be used by nx4rei   onily in the perfonmance of
their ofii duies Its cmnts may not otherie be disdkmed whbout World Bank authoizauo



- 11 -
IV.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION .........................       27
Financial Management .                                           29
Execution of Project Works           . . .30
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting           . .       .       31
Operation and Maintenance .      . .............................  31
Water Charges..: ........... ............... . . .  ...          32
V.  PRODUCTION, PROCESSING, MARKETING AND PRICES .      ...............  33
Production   ..33
Processing and Marketing.                                        35
Prices .......................................,,.,,.             36
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS..                                   37
Production and Benefits            ..37
Employment and Income    ..37
Project Charges    ..38
Economic Analysis    ..39
Project Risks   ..39
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................       40
TABLES IN THE TEXT
2.1  Project Area Statistics..........                                  8
3.1 Cost S umary    ..23
3.2 Financing Pnan    ..24
3.3  Procurement Arrangements ..................................       26
6.1  Summary of Rate of Return Analysis       ..40
ANNEXES
1.   Background Data
Climate
Soils
2.   Cost Data
Project Cost Sumnary
Project Expenditure Schedule
Expected Price Increases
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Proposed Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Earthwork and On-farm Works
Structure
Pumps and Equipment
.-ural Roads
Rural Electrification
Construction Materials
Vehicles and Equipment
Technical Assistance



- iii -
3. Crop Water and Irrigation Requirements
4.   Chaohu Flood Control
5.   Production, Prices and Unit Costs
Crop Areas and Yields
Production of Livestock, Aquaculture and Forestry
Farmgate Prices for Major Products and Inputs
Selected Conversion Factors
Crop Budget at Full Development
Livestock Budget at Full Development
Budget for Forest Development
Aquaculture Budget for Intensively-Managed Fishponds
Flood Control Benefits at Full Developmnent
6.   Financial and Economic Benefits
Labor Requirements by Activity
Labor Requirements by Month
Farm Income at Full Development
Farm Models
Rent and Cost Recovery
Economic Benefits and Costs by Area and Component
Met Economic Benefits
Sensitivity Analysis
7.   Technical Assistance
8.   Local Competitive Bidding
9.   Documents Available in Project File
LIST OF FIGURES
1.   Implementation Schedule
2.   Organization Structure of MWREP
3.   Organization Structure of AWRB
4.   Organization for Project Management
5.   Organization for Construction of Project Irrigation
and Flood Control Works
6.   Organization for Operation and Maintenance of
Irrigation and Flood Control Works
7.   Proposed Crop Calendar
MAPS
IBRD 18749 and IBRD 18750.



CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Sum-ary
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:
Amount:            Loan:   US$17 million equivalent
Credit: SDR 75.7 million (US$75 million equivalent)
Terms:             Loan:   20 years, including 5 years of grace, with standard
variable interest rate.
Credit: Standard.
Project
Description:     The project would rehabilitate and complete existing
irrigation facilities on 320,000 ha in the Pishihang area
of Anhui Province. It would provide to an area surrounding
Lake Chao flood protection to 170,000 ha, more reliable
irrigation to 220,000 ha and improved drainage to 23,000
ha. It would also upgrade other rural infrastructure,
strengthen agricultural support services, and provide
agricultural credit to encourage diversificatiion into
Livestock, fisheries and forestry. This would be the first
Bank Group project in China involving surface irrigation
and would establish a new relationship with a major
government agency, the Ministry of Water Resources and
Electric Power. Main features include construction of
control structures, bridges, drainage culverts, etc. and
excavation to increase canal capacity in the Pishihang
area; excavation of flood channels, construction of control
gates and pumping stations in the Chaohu area; improvement
of rural roads and power facilities; provision of chemical
fertilizers; construction of buildings and provision of
laboratory equipment and vehicles to extension, research
and training facilities. Technical assistance and training
would be provided to improve management of the irrigation
and flood control schemes. At full development, the
project would add over one million tons annually to
production of grain and additional amounts to production of
oilseeds, fiber crops, livestock and fisheries products.
The project faces no significant technical or
administrative risks.



Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
-- (USS million) --
Earthworks, on-farm works, and
land acquisition                        84.0         0.0        84.0
Structures                                 19.5       31.8        51.3
Pumps and equipment                         0.0        6.9         6.9
Chemical fertilizer                         0.0       10.7        10.7
Roads and electrification                   5.1        5.1        10.2
Afforestation                               5.4        0.1         5.5
Seeds, extension, and research            13.6         5.6        19.2
Rural credit                               4.9         2.0         6.9
Training and technical assistance           5.1        1.9         7.0
Base Cost                            137.6        64.1       201.7
Physical contingencies                    15.5         4.8        20.3
Price contingency                         28.6        12.9        41.5
Total Project Cost Ia                181.7        81.8       263.5
Financing Plan:
IDA/IBRD                                  35.6        56.4        92.0
Central government                        15.4         3.7        19.1
Local government                          51.7        21.7        73.4
Agricultural Bank of China                  2.9        0.0         2.9
Participating farms                       76.1         0.0        76.1
Total                                181.7        81.8       263.5
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank/IDA FY   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
-US$ mallion) 
Annual                        22.3   29.9   19.7    9.8    7.9    2.4
Cumulative                   22.3   52.2   71.9   81.7   89.6   92.0
Rate of Return:   36%
/a The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
l.Ol      The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance in
financing an area development project in the Pishihang-Chaohu area of central
Anhui Province. Covering 12 counties and served by the largest irrigation
scheme in China, this area suffers from water distribution problems due to
incomplete irrigation works, poor drainage, and seasonal flooding. The
proposed project would rehabilitate and complete existing irrigation facil-
ities serving 320,000 ha in the Pishihang area; construct flood channels,
control gates, and pumping stations to provide flood protection to 170,000 ha,
more reliable irrigation to 220,000 ha and improved drainage to 23,000 ha in
the area surrounding Lake Chao; and improve Anhui's overall capability to
plan, design and manage irrigation and flood control schemes. The project
would also upgrade other rural infrastructure, strengthen agricultural support
services, and provide agricultural credit to encourage diversification into
livestock, fisheries and forestry. Project activities in Anhui would help
increase the output of crops and other agricultural commodities thus augment-
ing rural incomes, and would provide a model of integrated irrigation and
rural development that might be introduced elsewhere in China.
Agriculture and Water Resources in China
1.02      Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to over one billion people, is the source of
income for some 190 million farm families, and accounts for about 35Z of the
country's GDP. Only about 100 million ha of China's land area of 960 million
ha are arable. Farming systems are intensive, with large inputs of labor,
chemical and organic fertilizer and water. Nearly half of the arable land is
irrigated. Foodgrains occupy about 80% of the cropland and account for about
55Z of total agricultural output. This intensive system of food production
allows China to meet the basic food requirements of its population (about 22%
of the world's total) from less than 8% of the world's arable land. Agricul-
tural production is carried out largely on household-managed farms within a
framework of collective or state ownership of land and major fixed assets.
1.03      Since 1978, the gross value of agricultural output has grown at an
average annual rate of about 7%, or more than twice the rate achieved over the
previous two decades. Output of foodgrains increased by about 3.8% annually
over the last decade, reaching a record of over 400 million tons in 1984
despite declines in cropped area and area sown with grains. Net grain
imports, which had risen to about 15 million tons p.a., have begun to
decline. Between the present and the turn of the century, China's agriculture
must face the challenge of feeding at better nutritional levels a population
grc-.ng by at least ten million per year and supplying the raw materials to



-2-
meet rapid growth in industrial demand. At best, the land area under cultiva-
tion will not increase and the sown area is likely to remain at present levels
as land reclamation and increased irrigation are approximately offset by lands
converted to nonfarm uses. Most of the production gains will have to come
from increased yields on presently cultivated land. The general direction of
development is to shift more resources into activities where the gap between
existing and advanced technology is greatest (agro-industrial production),
where improved management and labor skills have a high payoff (modern
livestock and poultry production), and which are less constrained by fixed
resources (land and water).
1.04      Water Resources Development.  China's water resources are limited
and unevenly distributed. About 45Z of China's total land area is located in
regions with less than 400 m annual rainfall, mostly in the north, west and
northwest. Regions with more than 800 mu, primarily in the east and south-
east, account for one third of China's arable land and about one half of its
population. About two-thirds of China's land area, but only one-sixth of its
surface flow volume, occur north of the Changjiang (Yangtze River).  In an
effort to make more efficient use of scarce water resources and to solve
China's perennial problems of drought, flood and famine, the Government since
1949 has supported major investments in irrigation and flood control works.
Total irrigated area expanded from about 16 million ha in 1949 to a current
figure of about 47 million ha, of which about 90Z is from surface sources and
lOZ from groundwater. Of the present total, 26 million ha are served by an
estimated 76 million hp of pumping installations, compared to only 252,000 ha
and 97,000 hp of pumping capacity in 1949. China's irrigated areas, which have
an estimated productivity twice that of rainfed areas, account for about two-
thirds of total grain production and three-fourths of total output of commer-
cial crops. The expansion of irrigation facilities has been a major factor in
the increase in grain production from about 113 million tons in 1949 to over
400 million tons in 1984.
1.05      Despite such successes, the water supply capacity has not kept pace
with growing demands for water from the agricultural as well as industrial
sectors and from household consumers. One important factor is that in most
irrigation projects, the area effectively irrigated proved to be less than
originally planned, largely because of a failure to complete the irrigation
network down to the farm level. Projects of the 1960's typically involved
large, centrally-funded storage or diversion dams and main conveyance systems,
some of which were models of skillful engineering design and construction. It
was left to local governments to construct networks to distribute water to the
farmers' fields. In the absence of adequate local financing, the result was
either failure to complete the distribution system or substandard construction
from the standpoint of materials, planning and design. Compounding these
problems of inadequate investment in system completion has been a lack of
funds for system maintenance, repairs and equipment replacement, even where
the original structure was satisfactorily constructed. Lack of adequate
control structures and the poor condition of watercourse channels at the farm
level are major contributing factors to China's generally low irrigation
efficiency, which ranges from 30 to 55Z for surface water irrigation systems.



1.06      Water Resources Agencies.  The Ministry of Water Resources and
Electric Power (MWREP) (Figure 2) oversees all activities in the water resour-
ces and electric power sectors, including planning, design, construction and
operation of water and power development projects of regional importance.
Standard government procedures require funds for major projects to be approved
by the State Planning Council (SPC) in accordance with annual and five-year
plans and then channeled through the MWREP to the provinces involved. Plann-
ing and allocation of resources for smaller projects are to be handled by
provincial governments subject to Ministry approval. However, in the past few
years, the provinces have assumed greater responsibility for project genera-
tion and funding even for large projects. This is especially true for activi-
ties in the water sector where, in contrast to power, operations are largely
decentralized. Of a total of about one million water resources employees
nationwide, an estimated 852 work under provincial and other local administra-
tions with 15% under direct MWREP control. The picture is reversed in the
case of power employees: about 78% of the totaL of 1.1 million employees are
directLy responsible to the Ministry and 22% are classified as local
government personnel.
1.07      The MWREP has 14 departments, four of them technical departments
specific to the water and power sectors (Water Management, Irrigation and
Drainage, Electricity Production and Rural Electrification) and the other ten
functional departments, such as Planning, Labor and Wages, and Finance, with
separate water and power sections within each. Through its Education Depart-
ment the MWREP directly administers seven institutions of higher education
specializing in hydraulics and hydropower. In addition to the 14 departments,
other major MWREP agencies include: the Water Resources and Hydroelectric
Power Construction Corporation with associated capital construction bureaus
and investigation and design institutes; the Electric Power Research Institute
and the Scientific Research Institute of Water and Hydropower, each with
centrally-funded research affiliates; six regional power administrations and
six river basin commissions. The river basin commissions are involved
primarily in planning and review of designs for large irrigation and flood
control projects which require inter-provincial coordination.
1.08      Most provinces have separate water resources and power bureaus which
are administratively responsible to the provincial governments and receive
technical guidance from the MWREP. In the case of Anhui Province, the Anhui
Water Resources Bureau (AWRB) has overall responsibility for the planning,
survey, design, construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation, drain-
age and flood control works.  Funding for development projects is allocated by
the Provincial Planning Commission on the basis of AWRB budget submissions.
Designs are prepared by the Bureau's Investigation and Design Institute and
submitted to the appropriate river basin organization within MWREP - either
the Huai River or the Yangtze Valley Commission - for review and approval.
Until recently, the AWRB construction company handled construction of all
major works, though part cf the job was usually subcontracted to lower level
construction units. Within the last year, as a cost reduction measure, MWREP
has opened construction of major and minor water projects to competitive
bidding by qualified contractors at all administrative levels from all pro-
vinces; hence AWRB's construction company is no longer entitled to exclusive
award of contracts. AWRB is headed by a director who is appointed by the



- 4 -
province and seven deputy directors, chief engineers and assistant chief
engineers who are responsible for planning and construction, science and
technology, irrig_tion and drainage, project management, administration,
finance, and foreign loans (Figure 3). AWRB employees totalled 144 in 1984,
of which 28Z were classified as technicians (secondary school or polytechnic
level), 47X as engineers (college graduates), and the rest as administrators
and field staff.
1.09      A similar structure of water resources agencies exists at the
prefecture (or municipaLity) and county levels. Prefectural and county
bureaus have primary responsibility for construction and maintenance of canals
(except some main canals maintained by the provinces), associated irrigation
and flood control structures and medium-sized reservoirs. Responsibility for
branch canals and associated structures and small reservoirs is shared with
districts, townships and villages acting through specially-appointed water
resources management groups. In areas where there are large-scale, ongoing
water control projects - e.g., the Pishihang region of central Anhui -
provincial governments usually establish a special system of irrigation area
management agencies to coordinate activities in the several counties and
prefectures that are beneficiaries of the project.
1.10      Current Policies and Programs.  The reduction of state investments
in water resources as part of sector-wide budget cuts introduced in 1981 has
led to a redefinition of water resources development policies and programs.
Current policy calls for: (a) reducing investments in new irrigation systems;
(b) increasing the efficiency of existing systems through rehabilitation and
completion of irrigation and drainage structures and improved water manage-
ment; and (c) shifting the burden of financing operation and maintenance costs
from the central to local governments while requiring the latter to increase
water charges to fully cover these costs. Water charges in the past were kept
low relative to costs of supplying water, in partial compensation for low
state procurement prices. Reflecting improvements in farm prices, higher fee
structures, determined on a province by province basis, have recently been
introduced in 14 provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions including
Anhui Province.
1.11      MWREP plans to increase the irrigated area by 8-10 million ha by the
year 2000. Over half of this planned expansion would take place in the rice
region south of the Huai River, about 1.6 m ha in the North China Plain, and
the remainder in the Northeast, the arid areas of the Northwest loess region,
and in Xinjiang and Gansu. Most of the expansion south of the Huai would be
the result of upgrading of existing works, an approach which offers a rela-
tively quick return on investment. By contrast, construction of new irriga-
tion systems has become increasingly costly, mainly because potentiaL areas
for development are in difficult terrain. For example, costs of constructing
a new distribution system, not including new reservoirs or drainage works,
would be on the order of Y4,500-6,000 per ha; costs can be as high as Y6,000-
15,000 per ha for works on the upper reaches of the Yellow River where it is
necessary to lift water 100-300 m. Along with improvements and additions to
the irrigation networks, the Government is planning measures to protect
presently cultivated land from problems of waterlogging and soil salinity.
Adequate drainage facilities have alreadi been constructed on about 10 m ha of



- 5 -
an estimated 20 m ha requiring such treatment. Plans call for increasing the
area thus protected to nearly 20 m ha by the year 2000, eliminating salinity
problems in the North China Plain and making on-farm drainage improvements to
an additional 1-2 m ha of Low-Lying fields.
Bank Lending for Agriculture and Water Resource Development
1.12      The Bank's strategy for lending in China's agriculture sector has
been to support the Government's efforts to expand and diversify agricultural
output through more efficient use of human and physical resources. Sector
lending to date has focussed primarily on land development and strengthening
agricultural support services. Future lending is expected to increasingly
concentrate on support for specialized product subsectors and area develop-
ment. Projects of the specialized product subsector type include a proposed
forestry development project and projects in aquaculture and livestock. The
area development approach combines in a single project assistance to land
development and support services previously the subject of separate proj-
ects. It responds to central and local government emphasis on increasing farm
incomes through diversification into higher-valued agricultural activities
even in areas where staple crop production can be increased. It is appropriate
for most areas of China, where much basic infrastructure is already in place
and further productivity growth requires upgrading of or refinements to
diverse components of rural infrastructure and support services. It takes
advantage of the close integration of governmental functions at the local
level in China, which facilitates inter-agency cooperation. The proposed
Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project is the first of this type.
Additional possibilities include assistance in developing the infertile, "red
soils" areas of South China and the arid regions of Gansu and Xinjiang
Province. The lending program will also continue to support repeater projects
in areas--e.g. rural credit--judged to be of key importance in the shift from
collective to household-managed farms.
1.13      The Bank's involvement to date with water resources development in
China has been in the context of land development projects: the North China
Plain Project (Cr. 1261-CHA) focussed on drainage improvement, irrigation from
groundwater, and desalinization, and the Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project
(La. 2261-CHA/Cr. 1347-CHA) is developing a drainage system for reclaimed
area. Installation of on-farm sprinkler or pumped irrigation facilities have
been components of subprojects appraised under Rural Credit I (Cr. 1462-CHA).
The proposed Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project would involve the Bank
Group for the first time with China's surface irrigation and flood control
systems; it would also establish a new relationship with a major Government
agency, the MWREP. Future lending for water resources development would
support the Government's emphasis on improving efficiency of existing systems
(para. 1.10) with special emphasis on improvements in system planning and
operation and farm-level irrigation and drainage works. This focus would not
preclude Bank Group participation in new projects in areas of acute poverty if
economic returns were promising, as when substantial areas of new or low-
productivity land could be transformed into high-yielding irrigated farmland
at reasonable cost. Projects under discussion with the Government for
possible Bank Group involvement include rehabilitation of an irrigation scheme
in Nei Monggol; trans-basin diversion to irrigate an area in Gansu; and



expansion of existing facilities for water transfer from the Yangtze to the
Huai River besin.
Project Fornulation and Rationale
1.14      government investment in water resources development has shifted
focus in recent years from costly new irrigation projects to completion and
upgrading of existing works where returns on investment are expected to be
quicker and greater (para. 1.10). More emphasis has been placed, too, on the
need to improve on-farm irrigation and drainage and to integrate irrigation
service development with other aspects of rural development-support for rural
works, agricultural support services, agricultural credit-so as to give the
individual fam household a greater stake in project success. Reflecting
these new priorities, in February 1984, the MWREP presented a proposal to the
World Bank to assist in financing an area development project in central Anhui
Province. Visits to project sites and discussions of project scope and design
took place in February and June, and the project was appraised in November
164. The proposed project, the first in China to involve the Bank Group in
surface irrigation, supports comprehensive rehabilitation and improvement of
the largest irrigation and associated flood control scheme in the country.
The major rationale for Bank Group participation is to make available to MWREP
the Bank Group's experience in establishing irrigation, flood control and
rural development schemes in other parts of the world. In particular, Bank
Group involvement wouLd provide access to new technologies available within
the international coummunity: e.g., new mapping techniques to help in the
design and layout of on-fazm ditches and drains, use of numerical modelling in
resource planning and management, and advanced equipment for data collection
and water monitoring and control. Study tours, technical assistance and the
project-financed studies of system operations would help update the technical
knowledge of staff of water resource agencies who have been isolated from
recent developments abroad, and upgrade their planning and management capabil-
ities. The overall objective of Bank Croup involvement in the proposed
project would be to assist the Government in developing a model of integrated
irrigation and rural development that might in the future be extended to other
irrigation areas in China.
1.15      The Pishihang-Chaohu irrigation and flood control area is an
appropriate location for such a project because: (a) the existing volume of
water storage is suffi:ient for expansion of irrigation water deliveries
without further dam and reservoir construction; (b) crop yields are well
below potential and the area can enlarge its marketable surplus; (c) Anhui
Province in general, and the project area in particular, are traditional
poverty areas which, under new local and central government leadership, have
recently mude rapid progress. The Pishihang and Chaohu irrigation areas,
although ander separate local administrative bodies, constitute a closely
interrelated basin for water management, as Pishihang runoff drains into the
Cheohu area and irrigation water from Lake Chao services part of the Pishihang
scheme.



- 7 -
II. THE PROJECT hREA
Location
2.01      The proposed project area would be located in the region between the
Huaihe and l4e Changjiang (Yangtze River) in west-central Anhui province (IaD
Map 18749)._1  The area benefitting from all project activities -  improvement
of irrigation, drainage and flood control works and development of infrastruc-
ture and support services - covers parts of 13 counties and 3 municipalities
(25,450 sq km), with a total cultivated area of 918,000 ha and a farm
population of 8.2 million (Table 2.1). Activities to improve irrigation
facilities would take place in the ?ishihang irrigation area, which straddles
the watershed of the Pihe, Shihe and Hangbuhe, and has a designed service area
of about 680,000 ha extending over parts of eight counties. The area bene-
fitting from project irrigation works would be 320,000 ha. The Chaohu area
would be the focal point of activities to strengthen flood control and
drainage works. This area Lies adjacent to the Pishihang area to the south
and east and overlaps a part of the Pishihang area located within the Kangbuhe
basin. Its main feature is Lake Chao, China's fifth largest lake. Chaohu
project irrigation and flood control works wuld benefit three counties and
one municipality, and a cultivated area of 220,000 ha.
Climate
2.02      With its location between 300-56' and 320-401 latitude north, the
project area has a subtropical monsoonal climate with moderate temperature and
rainfall. The frost-free period ranges from 210 to 230 days. Average daily
temperatures in the Pishihang area range from a January low of about 6.60C to
330C in July-August. Rainfall ranges from 870 to 1,250 m with about 50Z
occurring between June and September during the monsoons. Total annual su-
shine hours amount to 2,100-2,400 hours. Despite occasional spells of drought
and heavy rainfall, the project area has favorable climate conditions for
production of food and industrial crops (Annes 1).
Topography and Soils
2.03      Topography.  Most of the Pishihang area is rolling country
intersected by various rivers; only about 15X is flat land lying in alluvial
flood plains. Existing cultivated land has been extensively terraced along
its contours. The upper catchment areas are hilly with moderate elevation.
The lower reaches of the three river basins form lakes which are linked with
the Huaihe and the Changjiang.  The Chaohu area consists mostly of low lying,
level land surrounding Lake Chao in the alluvial flood plains of the main
channels and the Changjiang.
I/   The Chinese endings 'he" and "jiang" both mean "river", i.e. Suaihe means
"Huai River". Similarily, "hu" means 'lake".



- 8 -
Table 2.1: PRUJECr AREA STATISTICS
Plshibang area                              Chaohu area                 Total
Administrative         Irrigation       Adminis-                                 adminis-
area /s             area lb         trative              nFood   Irriga-    tratlve
Nlne    Project   Entire      Jeneflc   project  Total    control   tion         project
counties    area     area         area     area Ic  basin /d  area /e  area le   area /f
Area (sq in)                  24.000   18.500       12.006     5,913       6.950    14.203    2.550      4.400    25.450
Population ('000)              7.980    5.890            -         -       2,940      5.310    2,052     2,655     8.830
Agricultural population      7.520    5.569        6.010     2.800       2,660     4.820    1.862      2,410     8.229
Farm labor force               3.000    2.260        2,400     1,100       1.140      2.030      784     1.015     3.400
Parm families                  1.740    1.224        1,300       550         615      1.120      433       560     1.839
Cultivated area (ha '000)        855       642         684       319         276       440       170       220       918
Paddy fields                   558      420          319       243         N/A       340       145       170       N/A
Crop ares                      1.393    1.092        1,168       543         465        880      340       371     1.557
Rice-cropped area              720       572         619       284         277       429       183       221       849
Irrigated area:
Designed                       N/A      N/A          684       319         N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A
UEfective                      573      444          533       257         225       347      I/A        N/A       N/A
/a  Official statistics for the nine counties and for the districts within those counties which will benefIt from pro]-
ect works. Official statistcls on cultivated, crop and Irrigated area have been Inflated by 252 to adjust for
under-reporting.
/b Estlmates for the entire PLshibang irrigation area and the areas benefiting from Improvement in irrigation with
project.
/c  Offical statistics for four counties and two  -niclpalities benefiting from project works. excluding parts of the
Pishibang project area which will benefIt from Ciaobu flood control or supplementary irrigatlon.  Official statis-
tics adjusted an noted Lna a.
id Estlmates for the entire drainage basin surrounding Lake Chao; including parts of the Pishihang area and additional
area not counted as part of the project area.
ie EstImtes for areas subject to flooding and waterlogging which would receive protection from project works (includ-
iug parts of Pishihang area, and areas irrigated by the Chaohu sytem which would receive supplementary water with
project (excluding parts of the Pishibang irrigation area). lhe two areas overlap.
If  Defined as the sua of the Pi-hibang and Chaohu administratlve areas receiving benefits from water resources and/or
rural developent components under the project (excluding Eefei M1unicipality and adjacent counties, which might
receive part of supplementary Irrigation benefits uner the Chaohu project componert).



- 9 -
2.04      Soils.  More than 752 of the soils on land under cultivation in the
Pishihang-Chaohu area are paddy soils (Annex 1). Because such soils have been
continuously cult.vated and leached of mineral nutrients by flood irrigation,
their characteristics depend primarily on the extent to which tilth has been
maintained and nutrionts restored through proper husbandry. rn recent years,
intensive cultivation with insufficient use of mineral or organic fertilizer
has caused Local paddy soils to become seriously deficient in phosphorus and
potassium.  Available P205 typically ranges from 4 to 7 ppm, and available K20
from 60 to 80 ppm, compared to 11-12 ppm for P205 and 100 ppm for K20 which
are considered adequate in paddy rice-growing areas of similar cropping inten-
sity. Alluvial soil, which accounts for about 7% of the cultivated area and
is found along major water channels, and yellowish-brown soils, accounting for
13-15Z, and found mainly in hilly areas where upland cropping is practiced,
are not markedly better or worse than the paddy soils. All soils in the
project area are suitable for the mix of existing crops, given proper drainage
and fertilizer use.
Farm Size and Land Use
2.05      There are about 1.8 million farm families, or an agricultural labor
force of 3.4 million persons, in the project area. The average farm size is
only about 0.5 ha, including 0.4 ha of irrigated land. This low land availa-
bility indicates the need for very intensive cultivation and high yields,
which in turn requires a reLiable water supply. Average rural income in 1983
was only Y 900 per family, or Y 200 per capita, compared to a national average
of Y310 per capita. The limited scope of forestry, animal husbandry, fish-
eries and side occupations, which together represent only 20% of farm income
in the project area, accounts for the relative poverty of this area.
2.06      About two-thirds of the cultivated area has been developed into
paddy fields. In the Pihe and Shihe irrigation areas, which drain into the
Huaihe, double cropping is practiced, most commonly with a summer crop of
paddy rice followed by a winter crop of wheat or rapeseed. In the southeas-
tern portion of the project area, draining into the Changjiang, the growing
season is slightly longer and drainage poorer. Consequently on about half of
the area, a rice-rice-green manure cropping system is practiced, with double
cropping on the remaining area. Upland fields are planted in a miscellany of
crops, including corn, tubers, soybeans, cotton, jute, peanuts and sesame.
The overall cropping intensity is about 170Z (excluding green manure).
Existing Water Conservancy Facilities
2.07      Pishihang Area.  The Pishihang irrigation scheme, begun in 1958 and
expanded in the 1970s, embraces some 13,000 sq km in Anhui and Henan pro-
vinces. The designed irrigation area is about 680,000 ha, but at present the
scheme supplies water to about 533,000 ha, about 802 of which is irrigated
through a gravicy-fed network. Five main storage reservoirs in -he Dabieshan
Mountains supply 13 main canals totaling 985 km, 19 sub-main canals totaling
over 400 km, 326 branch canals totalling 3,350 km, and a network of partially
completed laterals and sublaterals. Completed irrigation structures include
some 30,000 control structures, 24 medium size reservoirs, 1,042 small reser-
voirs, and 314 pumping stations with installed capacity of 89,000 kw. Cur-



- 10 -
rently another 42 pumping stations with 52,000 kw capacity are under construc-
tion. In Anhui, the scheme has turned the Jianghuai Plain, lying between the
Changjiang and Huaihe, into a productive rice producing area. The area served
by the scheme, with one-seventh of the province's cultivated area, now
accounts for nearly one-fourth of grain marketed in Anhui.
2.08      Despite large investments in construction over the past 25 years,
the system is incomplete, particularily at lower levels of the distribution
network. On the main canals, 90% of the designed earthwork volume and 60% of
the control structures have been completed. At the level of branch canals,
laterals and sub-laterals, only 70Z of earthworks and 20% of control struc-
tures have been completed. In areas presently irrigated, the farmers have
built on-farm ditches and drains, but they are in need of improvement to vary-
ing degrees. In level areas (15-20% of the irrigation area), on-farm ditches
and drains have been constructed to good standards and are well-maintained.
In sloping or hilly areas, much of the irrigation is field-to-field over long
distances, and the existing works need improvement. These inadequacies,
coupled with the undulating terrain, make irrigation water distribution and
control difficult, resulting in serious waste of water and low on-farm
irrigation efficiency.
2.09      The Pihe and Shihe basins drain northwards into the Huaihe while the
Hangbuhe basin drains eastward into the Changjiang via Lake Chao. With the
completion of the five storage reservoirs in the headwaters of the three main
rivers and the diking of the Huaihe, the Pishihang area is generalLy free from
flooding but localized surface drainage needs improvement to take advantage of
the gentle slope of the ground. Drainage in some areas is impeded by built-up
canal embankments. Numerous ponds and retention basins are built into the
canal system as "melons on vines" to hold water for irrigation.
2.10      Chaothu Area.  Efforts at flood control over the last three decades
involved strengthening of the Changjiang dike, improvement of the main drain
(the Yuqi River), and the use of Lake Chao for flood regulation. As a result,
some 180,000 ha of flood-prone areas were protected from inundation by the
Changjiang and reclaimed for cultivation through enclosure by protective
dikes. Irrigation facilities have expanded to the point where 234,000 ha are
irrigated with water drawn from Lake Chao and the Changjiang.  Ieservoirs and
ponds provide additional storage capacity totalling 2 billion m , and
installed capacity of drainage-irrigation pumping stations totals 230,000 hp.
2.11      However, flooding and drought still pose problems to the area.
Although diking of the Changjiang eliminated flooding from that source, it
also retarded drainage flow. When high stage on the Changjiang coincides with
excessive runoff into Lake Chao, the Yuqihe is unable to handle all of the
outflow. Consequently dikes are selectively breached, allowing diked areas to
be used for flood release, which causes extensive damage to crops and pro-
perty. Over the last 30 years, ten floods of varying magnitudes lasting
40-160 days each have occured, causing a total damage of about Y2 billion
(Annex 4). In addition, water tables in the diked areas are high, and stand-
ing surface water must normally be evacuated by pumping during the monsoon
season. Prior to the onset of the summer monsoons, water levels in Lake Chao
must be lowered to +7.5 m to provide storage for flood regulation. When the



- 11 -
monsoons are delayed or rainfall is insufficient, water is diverted to Lake
Chao from the Changjiang by gravity flow to maintain this level. In a
prolonged dry spelL (6 times in 30 years), the Changjiang water level falls
too low for diversion by gravity, rendering pumping stations around the lake
inoperative. This subjects 133,000-200,000 ha to drought damage and affects
water supply for domestic, livestock and industrial uses.
Irrigation Area Organizations
2.12      Pishihang Area.  Management of the several phases of the Pishihang
irrigation project from its inception in 1958 to 1981 was directed, first, by
a semi-autonomous agency called the Pishihang Construction Leadership Commis-
sion, then, during the Cultural Revolution (1966-74), by the Liuan Prefectural
government, and, beginning in 1975, once again by a separate Pishihang
commission. In 1981, as part of a new phase of investment in Pishihang
irrigation development, the provincial government further strengthened the
area management structure. At the top is the Pishihang Management Commission,
an executive body made up of senior officials from provincial, prefectural,
and county WRBs and other technical bureaus. The Commission is primarily
responsible for overall planning - including drawing up plans for annual water
allocation - and budgetary decisions relating to ongoing development of the
irrigation scheme in the 12 counties served by the Pi, Shi, and Hangbu river
systems. Day-to-day management and coordination with other government
agencies on irrigation-related matters - e.g., with forestry bureaus regarding
tree planting on watersheds - in the Pishihang area are handled by the
Pishihang General Administration (GA) which serves as a kind of secretariat to
the Commission. The GA is headed by the AWRE vice-d-irector and has a
technical staff of 136, including irrigation engineers, agronomists and
economists/statisticians, an administrative staff of 79, and 463 field
staff. A similar structure of commissions as policymaking bodies with
attached administrative offices has been set up for areas served by the Pihe
central conveyance canal, the Shihe central conveyance canal and the Shulu
main canal. Plans are to extend the model to the submain canal level as
well. Total Pishihang irrigation area staff consists of 2,800 technicians and
administratOrs and 2,000 field workers including canal operators, maintenance
workers and mechanics.
2.13      Chaohu Area.  Management of irrigation and flood control in the
Chaohu area is handled primarily by the AWRB and prefectural and county WRBs
each of which has established a special office for Chaohu affairs called the
Chaohu Flood Control and Drought Prevention Authority. In addition, Chaohu
prefecture has set up special management offices for the five major floodgates
in the area.
Infrastructure and Support Services
2.14      Transport and Power.  The eastern part of the project area lies
adjacent to the provincial capital, Hefei (population 700,000), thus providing
ready access to Anhui's major market. The project area is Linked by rail to
North and South China via the Beijing-Shanghai trunk railway line. Within the
area, a network of 4,691 km of paved provincial roads links all the major
county towns and provides access to 77% of all townships. Villages are



- 12 -
accessible on unpaved rural roads of varying standards. The main canals are
navigable and important in meeting local transportation needs. Lake Chao
itself is also linked by navigable rivers to Hefei and the Changjiang.
2.15      Electric power presently is available to 91% of the townships and
67% of the villages in the project area. Power is supplied from hydroelectric
generating stations on the three main storage reservoirs with a total capacity
of 127 MW, and from 360 smalL hydro-stations on the canal system with a 4 MW
capacity, or is purchased from the East China Power System grid which runs
through the eastern part of the project area. Transmission within the project
area is over 35 or 10 kV lines, and distribution to the village level at
3-8 kV. Two new thermal plants with a combined installed capacity of 1,800 MW
are scheduled for construction in centraL Anhui during 1985-1990; this new
capacity would easily cover the project's incremental power demands.
2.16      Education and Research.  An estimated 1,700 technicians in
agriculture-related fields or about 2.2 per 10,000 population are employed in
the project area at present. The majority of these technicians are middle or
secondary schooL graduates; only about 150 are classified as college degree
holders in agronomy, animal husbandry and engineering. Anhui has three agri-
cultural colleges and eight secondary schools specializing in agriculture.
Two of the agricultural secondary schools, enrolling a total of 400 students,
are located in the project area -- at Liuan and Chaohu. To heLp supply much
needed technical personnel for the area there is a need to expand and upgrade
curricula, equipment and facilities so as to accommodate increased
enrollments.
2.17      Agricultural research is conducted at Anhui's three agricultural
colleges, at the Anhui Provincial AgriculturaL Research Academy in Hefei, and
at prefectural agricultural research institutes. Two prefectural research
institutes -- in Chaohu and Liuan -- are in the project area. Together they
employ about 50 technical personnel. A forestry research institute, estab-
lished in 1979 at Liuan, has a staff of 25, onLy ten of whom have an educa-
tional level of postsecondary or above.
2.18      Agricultural Extension and Training.  China's extension institutions
have been notably effective in the past in channeling improved technology and
research results to farmers. However, the recent shift to a farming system
organized around individual households rather than collectives has placed new
demands on extension services. Whereas previously the various levels of
collective organization centralized distribution of new production inputs and
technical assistance, now the support system requires direct links to about
190 million production units which operate much as do small family-managed
farms elsewhere. In response to this requiLoment, the Government is in the
process of consolidating previously separate local agricultural services,
including seed production, fertilizer distribution, and soil analysis units,
into a single, county-level agrotechnical extension center. Nationwide about
300 out of a planned 2,300 centers are already in existence. In the project
area there are at present seven agrotechnical extension centers with a total
of 378 affiliated stations including soil testing stations, crop pest warning
stations and district and township extension stations. These various exten-
sion units offer short term training to over 200,000 area farmers per year.



- 13 -
2.19      AgriculturaL Inputs.  Thirty-seven county or district seed companies
handle multiplication, processing, storage, certification and distribution of
stock and certified seed for major crops in the project area. Breeder seed is
supplied primarily by the Anhui ProvIncial Research Academy and Liuan and
Chaohu prefectural research insticutes. Multiplication of stock and certified
seed is carried out by seed farms either managed by or under special contract
to the local seed companies.  The bulk of the seed is processed using tradi-
tional hand or simple machine methods. Tree seedlings for new plantations are
supplied by forestry nurseries organized by the provincial forestry bureau and
other local forestry agencies and by state forest farms which have been set up
as largely self-sufficient entities charged with accelerating China's affores-
tation programs. There are 120 state forest farms in Anhui, about a third of
them in the project area. At present the project area has about 394,000 ha of
largely immature forest with a standing timber volume of only 6.4 milLion m3;
another 284,000 ha are classed as suitable for afforestation. Over the long
term, tree planting offers a solution to the problem of shortages of rural
fuel and construction materials and couLd help control erosion on watersheds
surrounding reservoirs.
2.20      The soils over virtually all of the project area are deficient in
both phosphate and potash. Domestic production of these fertilizers, while
increasing, does not meet current demands, and shortfalls are experienced in
the project area. Present fertilizer use in the Pishihang-Chaohu area is
about 122 kg/ha of nitrogen, 29 kg/ha of phosphates and 5 kg/ha of potassium
for a nutrient (N:P:K) ratio of 1:0.24:0.04. This compares to a worLd average
of 1:0.52:0.1. About 85% of China's consumption of chemical fertilizer is
domesticalLy produced and distributed through the Agricultural Means of
Production Corporation and its local network of marketing cooperatives.
Fertilizer imports, which are confined largely to compound fertilizers, are
arranged by SINOCHEM; small amounts are also brought in directly by provincial
trading companies.
2.21      Livestock production in the project area is less intensive than in
other areas of China with similar levels of grain production. Ten pig breed-
ing farms run by prefectural and county agriculture, animal husbandry and
fisheries bureaus (Chaohu) or separate animal husbandry ofices (Pishihang)
supply project area farm households with new and improved breeds. Present
annual commercial supply of shoats is about 6,000. These efforts are being
supplemented by five artificial insemination stations which annually insemi-
nate some 2,000 cattle and pigs. The project area currently markets 620,000
pigs and 8 million poultry annuaLLy, and supports 274,000 draft animals. Fish
raising in the project area also shows potential for expansion. A total of
170 fish nurseries operated as state-owned enterprises under county fisheries
offices produce about 200 million fries p.a., sufficient to stock about 26,500
ha of ponds. This represents only a small portion of the total area of reser-
voirs, ponds and canals suitable for fish raising in the project area. Yields
in stocked reservoirs are under 50 kg/ha, compared to 1 t/ha in well-managed
lakes elsewhere in the same region of China.
2.22      Rural Credit.  Credit is available in the project area chrough the
Anhui branch of the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) and its extensive network
of prefectural (or municipal) branches, county subbranches, and township



- 14 -
credit cooperatives. Total staff of the branches and subbranches is about
11,900 and of the credit cooperatives, 13,700. Reflecting Anhui's low per
capita income levels, the level of rural savings and deposits is lower and the
need for external sources of finance for rural investment consequently higher
in Anhui than elsewhere in China. Demand for credit has risen particularly in
recent years in response to the Government's encouragement of household
agricultural activities and individual enterprises and its efforts to shift
from grant to loan financing of rural development projects. ABC Anhui's
sources of financing comprise mainly deposits and equity funds provided by ABC
Beijing. Loans outstanding at the end of 1984 amounted to Y 2.2 billion of
which Y 1.9 billion or 80Z constituted loans to townships (41Z), specialized
households (16%) and suppLy and marketing cooperatives (43%). In line with
recent banking system reforms including interest rate adjustments, ABC has
raised its lending rates. Over the period 1982-84, rates were increased from
4.32% to 7.2Z for short-term agricuLtural loans and from 2.16% to 6.48% for
medium- and longer-term Loans. Interest rates payable by ABC on individual
time deposits now range from 5.4% p.a. for a six-month deposit to 9.00Z p.a.
for an eight-year deposit. ABC incurs a small loss on some of its fixed term
deposits, but this is more than offset by profits from other aspects of its
operation.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The main objective of the project is to increase the production of
crops and other agricultural products in central Anhui by developing water
resources, reducing flood damage, developing rural infrastructure and support
services, and improving Anhui's overall capability to plan and manage irriga-
tion and flood controL schemes. The principal features of the project are:
(a)  improvement of irrigation facilities serving some 320,000 ha in the
existing Pishihang irrigation area, through channeL excavation,
embankment construction, addition of control structures and on-farm
ditches and drains;
(b)  improvement of flood control on 170,000 ha, drainage on 23,000 ha
and irrigation water supply benefiting 220,000 ha in the Chaohu area
through construction of flood channels, control gates, and pumping
stations;
(c)  strengthening of other rural infrastructure and agricultural support
services over an area of 918,000 ha;
(d)  provision of rural credit for livestock raising, aquaculture and
agro-processing;
(e)  a training and technical assistance program designed to improve the
planning and design of on-farm works and to raise the operational
efficiency of the irrigation and flood control systems.



- 15 -
Pishihang Irrigation System
3.02      In order to define a reasonable scope of project works, the
Government has decided to focus on the six canal command areas most in need of
improvement (see IBRD Map No. 18750). The project would make improvements to
320,000 ha out of a total designed service area of 680,000 ha.
Pihe system:       Pihe Command Area (60,500 ha)
Waxi Command Area (38,200 ha)
Wadong Command Area (90,700 ha)
Shihe system:      Shihe Command Area (10,500 ha)
Jidong Command Area (64,900 ha)
Hangbuhe system:  Shulu Command Area (54,700 ha)
The canal system is divided into seven grades, (Figure 6) from the Largest
central conveyance canals to the smallest sub-Lateral canals. However, in
descriptions of project works below, these have been regrouped into main,
branch, lateral and sublateral canals for ease of reference. To facilitate
design of on-farm works, the project would introduce mapping techniques
developed for other Bank Group-funded projects in the Region. Additional
technical assistance would be given to the AWRB in (a) conducting system
operation studies for the project; (b) the design and implementation of
improvements in procedures and equipment for system operation.
3.03      Main and Branch Canals.  In the Pishihang irrigation sys em, some
5.1 million mn of earthworks on the main canals and 10.6 million m on 127
branch canals would be completed. This would be mostly in the form of excava-
tion to provide the designed cross-sections for the canals. Sections of canal
banks subject to erosion would be provided with stone protection or concrete
lining. About 120 bridges would be installed to provide more effective
transportation over the main canals. Some 50 major structures, mostly regu-
lators, drainage inlets and siphons, would be constructed on the main canal
system to provide better water control and drainage outfalls for areas with
drainage now cut off by built-up canal embankments. About 4,100 additional
irrigation and drainage structures would be constructed on the branch
canals. Within the project area, there are some 560 small and medium size
reservoirs acnumulating surface runoff in the service areas and providing
350 million m of supplementary water. These would be improved mainly through
raising the crests or improving the intake gates and spillways.
3.04      Lateral and Sublateral Canals.  Some 2,440 laterals and sublaterals
complete with 10,500 ancillary structures and 10,100 bridge crossings would be
constructed to provide better water control and distribution to 320,000 ha of
the Pishihang irrigation area. Over most of the area the sublaterals would be
upgraded by channel excavation, embankment construction, construction of more
control structures, and provision of a 3-meter farm road on tht canal bank.
Structures would include offtakes, regulators, bed controls, drops, checks,
drainage siphons, crossings and lining of canals where steep gradients and
permeable soils are encountered. Canal density wouLd be rationalized with the
different terrains and types of crops to be irrigated. The sublateral canals
would be designed to irrigate about 35-50 ha.



- 16 -
3.05      On-farm Works.  On-farm ditches and drains with proper control
structures would be constructed, primarily in the sloping or hilly areas
(para. 2.08). Emphasis will be placed on providing a higher density of
ditches and aligning them properly so as to minimize field-to-field irriga-
tion. Designs of on-farm works for three sample areas representing flat,
sloping and hilly terrain have been prepared. Two of these areas would be
implemented immediately and be ready by the next irrigation season (March
1985) to demonstrate the advantages of a well laid-out on-farm distribution
system. The designs would provide individual irrigation turnouts for each
3-7 ha. On-farm access would be by farm roads 3 m wide on the subLaterals and
footpaths of 0.5 m on the farm ditches. Planning and design of the on-farm
works requires topographical maps of suitable scale, which are not now
available. The project would assist the AWRB in using aerial photography to
produce maps of proper scale for layout of on-farm works.
Chaohu Flood Control System
3.06      Project works are designed to permit the following flood control
strategy for the Chaohu basin:
(a)  Lake Chao would be used for flood water retention up to a maximum
level of +12 m, and access volume would be evacuated to the
Changjiang through the existing Yuqihe insofar as water levels on
the Changjiang permit;
(b)  at high stage on the Changjiang, the Niudunhe Diversion Channel, to
be constructed by the project, would discharge part of the excess
volume into the Changjiang at a point 15 km downstream from the
Yuqihe outlet, where a lower water level permits gravity flow;
(c)  the channel of the Xihe, which runs through the diked areas between
Lake Chao and the Changjiang, would be enlarged to permit retention
and discharge of larger volumes of water;
(d)  and the Fenghuangjing and Shendanhe pumping stations, to be
constructed by the project at points where the Xihe approaches the
Chang;iang, would lift flood discharge from the Xihe over the
Changjiang dike, in order to agument the outflow to the Changjiang
which, at high stages, would be limited by the flat gradient (see
IBRD Map No. 18750).
In addition to the flood control benefits, the pumping stations would bring
irrigation water to parts of the irrigation area (including 40,000 ha included
in the Pishihang area) which are periodically short of water, and provide
drainage to areas near the pumping stations. The project would also provide
technical assistance to the AWRB in system operation studies to determine
operating rules for all elements of the flood control system, and provide
equipment needed to implement these rules.



- 17 -
3.07      Niudunhe Flood Diversion Channel.  A 48 km Long channel would be
constructed following the course of an existing natural drain. Bed width
would be 60-80 m and depth of fl3w 8-9 m for a discharge capacity of
480 m3/sec at the inlet to 700 m /sec at the outlet into the Changjiang. An
8 x 6 m outlet gate and about 3.3 km of the diversion channel were completed
by 1979, when further work was deferred due to lack of funds.  Remaining works
to be completed by the project include 17 million m3 of channel excavation, as
well as construction of an upstream control gate, five control gates on branch
rivers and drains, seven bridges, and a lock for ships of 50-100 tons at the
Changjiang outlet.
3.08      Pumping Stations.  The Fenghuangjing and Shendanhe pumping stations
would lift flood water a peak flow of 390 m /sec over the dike into the
Changjiang when high stage in the latter prevents gravity flow from the Chaohu
area. During the dry season, water from the Changjiang would be pumped into
Chaohu Lake via the Xi and Zhao Rivers for irrigation use. The Fenghuangjing
and Shendanhe stations would also be used to improve the drainage of some
22,500 ha of low-lying land in the vicinity of the pumping station. The
Fenghuangjing station wouLi have six 3 000 kW verticaL-axis flow PIMPS with a
total peak discharge capacity of 240 m /sec for drainage and 200 m /sec for
irrigation, against an average lift of 7 meters. Two pumps were purchased
earlier, and four would be provided by the project. The Shendanhe station
would have five 1,600 kW pumps with 150 m /sec drainage discharge capacity and
100 m3/sec for irrigation, against an average lift of 5-6 meters. Power would
be brought to the pumping stations by a 110 kV transmission line from the East
China Power Grid's existing 220 kV line. This line would also provide a basis
for meeting an additional load, including a large number of existing diesel-
powered pumping stations throughout the diked area (para. 2.10).
3.09      Xihe Canalization.  Sections of this channeL would be enlarged over
100 km where necessary to provide a bed width of 30 m and a peak flow volume
of 400-600 m3/sec. A number of cutoffs would be excavated to shorten its
length from 108 km to 92 km.
Rural Development
3.10      Rural Roads and Electrification.  The network of roads linking
county seats with townships would be expanded by 15Z with the addition of
587 km of gravel road. Another 98 km of dirt roads would be upgraded. As a
result, the proportion of townships accessible by all-weather roads would be
increased from 77% to 87%. Individual sections of road would be 20 to 30 km
in length and fit into the existing road system. Roads would be designed and
constructed to at least the Ministry of Communication's Grade rV standards.
This is the appropriate grade for rural roads where traffic is less than 200
vehicles per day.  Road embankments, generally 1 to 1.5 m high and 7.0-8.5 m
wide at base, would have a top width of 6.5-7 m. Bridges would be double lane
with a width of 7 m.  The rural electrification system would be expanded
through installation of 243 km of 35 kV lines, 428 km of 10 kV lines, ar. 25
km of 3-8 kV lines, along with construction of necessary substations. As a
result the number of townships receiving power would increase from 536 (91Z)
to 570 (97%) and the number of villages from 3,758 (67%) to 4,386 (79%).



- 18 -
3.11      FertiLizer.  To help remedy serious soil deficiencies in both
phosphate and potassium (para. 2.04), the project would include procurement of
70,000 tons of diammonium phosphate and potash for application as a soil
amendment at a rate averaging 40 kg/ha total nutrient (P205 and K20).  Project
area requirements of chemical fertilizer at full development are expected to
average one-third more than present requirements, or about 210 kg/ha nutrients
at full development, in proportions 1:0.33:0.13 (N:P205:K20). An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that a plan for provision of phosphate and
potassium fertilizers to the project area would be prepared and discussed with
the Bank Group prior to November of each year.
3.12      Afforestation.  In support of both the commercial and environmental
aspects of forestry development, the project would establish 565 ha of nur-
series for the production of 61 million seedlings for border and commercial
forest pLantings. Some 12,750 ha of commercial forests of pine and other
species would be planted on land too steep for cropping and on watersheds
surrounding reservoirs, at a density of 3,300 trees/ha with a recommended
spacing of 1.5 x 2 m and thinning every five years. Field border plantings
and shelter belts at 75 trees/ha would usually be planted in offset pairs of
rows with 7 x 3 m spacing, to reduce wind penetration.
3.13      Livestock and Fish Breeding.  The project would support increased
livestock production by adding three pig breeding farms, expanding others, and
increasing the number of breeding sows from 300 to 1,800 head (2,600 head, if
specialized households are included). The breeding farms would increase the
annual commerciaL supply of shoats to about 30,000, the majority to be hybrid
or other lean breeds. A small number of breeding cattle and pigs would be
imported from abroad. Aquaculture of carp would be supported by consolidating
170 existing nurseries into 141, and at the same time expanding their capacity
to supply 270 miLlion fries a year (not counting specialized household nurse-
ries). The area of ponds stocked, at a standard of 6,000 fries/ha, would
increase from 26,400 ha at present to 44,550 ha. Both shoats and fish finger-
lings would be sold to and raised by individual farm households.
3.14      Seeds, Extension and Research.  The project would strenthen the
seed, research and extension systems by constructing new or expanded facili-
ties and providing equipment and vehicles. Expansion of sled breeding facili-
ties would include a cultivation area of 5,200 ha, 8,850 m3 of grain storage,
and 27,600 sq m of drying floors. Seed processing would continue to follow
present methods, but some additional seed processing equipment would be
provided, mostly small-scale drying and processing equipment and bulk storage
facilities. Upgraded facilities would support an increase in seed company
sales from 5,500 t in 1983 to 30,580 t at full development, when they would
account for about 45% of project area seed requirements for rice, wheat and
cotton. The extension system would be expanded bv constructing and equipping
eight new county agrotechnical centers, 14 soil testing laboratories, four
district and 144 township extension stations, and 14 crop pest warning sta-
tions, while other facilities would be upgraded and equipped. Construction
would include new libraries, offices, classrooms and housing for extension
personnel, and laboratories, greenhouses, hothouses and growth chambers for
simple experiments and demonstrations. Equipment to be provided ranges from
audio-visual aids to be used in training courses to demonstration farm



- 19 -
machinery, soil testing instruments, refrigerators and incubators. The
project would also supply about 40 vehicles for use by extension personnel in
outreach activities.
3.15      To provide a modeL for effective water use management for irrigated
agriculture, the project would construct and equip a field irrigation experi-
ment station near Liuan City with three experimental plots in nearby
counties. The station would have a total staff of 24, including one to two
specialists each in agriculture, meteorology, soils and hydrology. The major
objective would be to develop a data base on irrigation water requirements for
particular crops, cropping patterns, soils and climatic variations, which
would become the basis for revising water allocation practices for the
Pishihang area. The station also would develop short-course training for
technicians employed by the water resources system. The project would include
construction of 2,500 sq m of laboratories and offices for the station and
plots, and provide equipment and microcomputers. To strengthen agricultural
research facilities, the project would expand seed breeding and nursery faciL-
ities at the Liuan Forestry Research Institute; construct and equip labora-
tories for the Liuan Agricultural Research Institute; and add hothouses for
hybrid rice breeding and fish fry overwintering at the Chaohu Agricultural
Research Institute.
Rural Credit
3.16      In addition to direct support of infrastructure and service sector
development, the project would increase provision of agricultural credit in
the form of interest-bearing, medium-term loans to enterprises and specialized
households for the development of agroprocessing, animal husbandry and fish-
eries. Emphasis would be placed on small-scale feed mills, using feedgrzirs
from northern Anhui and imported fishmeal and premixes. Applications fox
loans would be made to local branches of the Agricultural Bank of China, which
would carry out subproject appraisals and administer lending operations.
Assurances were obtained that ABC Anhui would appraise all subprojects using
the procedures and criteria set out in the Rural Credit Project Appraisal
Manual issued by ABC Beijing and approved by IDA in Cr. 1462-CHA; that
subloans for the first three subprojects appraised by ABC Anhui would be
submitted to IDA for approval; and that individual subloans in excess of
$300,000 would require IDA's prior approval. The credit component would
include provision of training and some equipment for ABC staff in the project
area.
Training and Technical Assistance.
3.17      Local Training Resources.  To strengthen the ongoing capability of
local institutions to provide technical training in hydrology and agriculture,
the project would establish a Water Resources Training Center, upgrade two
agricultural secondary schools to qualify for polytechnic status, and improve
the training facilities at the county agrotechnical centers. The Training
Center, designed to upgrade the qualifications of the 2,800 technicai and
managerial personnel working in the Pishihang irrigation area and to train new
employees, would provide post-secondary and short-term training to about 200
trainees in canal system management, hydrological data collection, telemetry,



- 20 -
computer operations and financial management. About 20 teachers would be
recruited from hydraulics departments of Anhui, Huadong and Wuhan Universities
and the School of Hydraulics at Anhui Huaiyuan College, and from among senior
engineers in the Pishihang GA. The project would include construction of
about 4,000 sq m of classrooms and a dormitory and wouLd provide teaching
equipment, books and materials.
3.18      Higher level agricultural staff for the project area would be drawn
from engineering graduates of provincial agricultural colleges, and from
graduates of Liuan and Chaohu Prefectural Secondary Agricultural Schools. The
latter two schools would be upgraded, with provision of buildings and equip-
ment by the project, to three-year polytechnics, with Liuan emphasizing pest
control and agricultural economics and Chaohu specializing in livestock and
fisheries training. Teaching staff would be given in-service training and new
staff would be added. The project would also help upgrade the training
facilities of the county agrotechnical extension centers. Training courses
offered would be increased three-fold making available to area extension
workers an estimated 650,000 training opportunities annually.
3.19      Management Assistance.  The project would strengthen irrigation and
flood control management by providing equipment, training and technical assis-
tance to the Pishihang GA and a Chaohu Water Control Center to be constructed
by the project. These organizations would be enabled to rapidly develop water
discharge plans in response to varying natural conditions. The project would
provide (1) a comminications system linking observation sites, control gates
and pumping stations, and the control center; (2) computer equipment and
training to monitor and analyze flood elevations, amounts of rainfall and
runoff, climatological data and irrigation water requirements as a basis for
calculating water discharge and inflow plans.  The equipment and training
requirements would be assessed with consultant assistance (para. 3.22).
3.20      To initiate the implementation phase of the proposed project, Bank
and local staff would conduct a project launch workshop in Anhui for staff of
the PMOs, AWRB, Pishihang GA, and Chaohu Water Resources Bureau.  The purpose
of the workshop would be to review the total process of implementation and to
familiarize project staff with their responsibilities. Topics to be covered
would include: procurement and contracting procedures, project financial
management, use of microcomputers in project implementation, and project moni-
toring and evaLuation. The workshop would be followed by a three week course
in project appraisal techniques designed for Anhui staff of ABC and Anhui
Agriculture, Ani-al Husbandry and Fisheries Bureau (AAAFB) as preparation for
implementation of the project's credit component. The project would also
provide office space, housing, office equipment and vehicles for the PMOs, and
supplementary office equipment to provincial and local offices of Anhui ABC.
3.21      Study Tours.  The project would provide 62 man-months of overseas
study tours (four weeks per participant) and 41 man-months of overseas train-
ing (two to six months per trainee) for staff of local water resource and
agricultural agencies and project management offices. Study tours would cover
such topics as techniques for design of on-farm works; water resource and
flood control management technologies and equipment; alternatives in monitor-
ing, control and communications; and rural development project management.



- 21 -
Overseas training would focus on such areas as regional water resource plann-
ing, floodplain management, operation and maintenance of pumping equipment,
and microcomputer applications in water system operations.
3.22      Consulting Services.  The project would provide 45 man-months of
consulting services to (a) direct a study tour on the use of aerial mapping in
planning on-farm works and to design a work plan for on-farm mapping of the
project area, (b) to assist the AWRB in conducting studies of irrigation and
flood control system operations; and (c) provide local training in modern
techniques of water resource management and agricultural production. Terms of
reference for the studies (Annex 7) were agreed with the Government at
negotiations. An assurance was obtained from the Government that a report
presenting the main findings of the studies would be prepared by the Anhui
Project Management office (PMO) (para. 4.02) and submitted to the Bank Group
for review not later than December 31, 1989. Consultants engaged in the
studies would also assist in drawing up equipment lists for the Pishihang
water resources experiment station and the Chaohu water control center
(paras. 3.15 and 3.19). Costs and phasing of technical assistance are
summarized in Annex 2.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
3.23      Water for the three irrigation areas is supplied by five storage
reservoirs constructed on the headwaters of Pihe, Shihe and Hangbuhe. The
Foziling, Mozican and Xianghongdian reservoirs provide water for 410,700 ha in
the Pihe system, the Meishan Reservoir supplies 182,000 ha on the Shihe, and
Longhekou Reservoir irrigates 91,300 ha on the Hangbuhe (Annex 3). Except for
the Longhekou Reservoir, which only irrigates a small area, these reservoirs
provide a high degree of flow regulation and have spilled only infrequently
and in small quantities since their construction in the 1950s. As a result,
aimost all of the average annual inflow to the five reservoirs of 4.9 billion
m  is available for irrigation use.  Catchment areas belz- the reservoirs but
above diversion weirs contribute another 0.7 billion m , so that tot l annual
regulated flow availabie for the canal system averages 5.6 billion m (3.4,
1.3, and 0.9 billion m for Pihe, Shihe and Hangbuhe respectively). Assuming
65Z efficiency, the annual irrigation requiremens s for 680,000 ha based on
pese.nt cropping patterns wculd be 4.3 billion m  (2.3, 1.2, and 0.9 billion
m respectivejy). Irrigation demands could thus be satisfied leaving a
1.3 billion m  average annual surplus, of which 280 million m  would be
sufficient for expected downstream requirements. Additional supplies,
important in dry years, would be available from surface runoff stored in small
reservoirs, retention ponds and lakes in the service areas. Expected shifts
in cropping patterns as a result of the project would reduce annual
requirements for irrigation water.
Status of Design
3.24      The project is at an advanced stage of preparation.  For the
Pishihang area, designs for works on three of the six main canal systems have
been prepared by AWRB and approved by the Huai River Comission and detailed
working drawings are being prepared. Designs for the three remaining systems
and for works on 125 branch canals are at advanced stages of preparation and



- 22 -
review by AWRB. For structures such as bridges, culverts, etc. there is a
high degree of standardization in designs, which have been in use for years.
Sample designs for typical laterals, sublaterals and on-farm works provide a
basis for quantity estimates with a reasonable degree of accuracy. Detailed
layout for sublaterals and on-farm ditches and drains would proceed as the I
to 4,000 scale maps become available during the second year of implementation.
Design studies for the Chaohu flood control works have been under way for
years. The design for the Niudunhe Flood Diversion Channel was completed and
approved in 1977, and in 1978 the main outlet structure on the Changjiang was
constructed. Designs for the pumping stations were completed in 1980, but
work was postponed due to lack of funds. The preliminary designs provide
detail sufficient to estimate quantities of work.
Implementation Schedule
3.25      The project would be constructed over a period of five years
beginning in November 1985. Deliveries of materials procured through ICB ari
selection of contractors for initial stages of construction would be timed to
permit a start on construction in January 1986. Earthworks construction would
be carried out during December-March, when canals are dry and idle farm labor
is available. Suction dredges would be used to excavate about one-third of
total earthworks located below normal levels. Work on the structures would be
carried out year round by contractors, as far as possible using standardized
sizes and pre-fabricated elements for the minor structures to facilitate rapid
construction. A detailed implementation schedule is given in Figure 1.
Cost Estimates
.3.26      The total project cost in December 1984 prices is US$264 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$82 million, or 31X of the total. No
taxes are imposed on major cost items, and imported materials and equipment
would be exempt from duties. Construction costs are based on quantity esti-
mates derived from designs described in para. 3.24, using prices currently
prevailing in the project area. Prices for locally available equipment are
based on data provided to AWRB and AAAFB by Local suppliers. Prices for
steel, cement, timber, chemical fertilizer, imported equipment and vehicles
are based on list prices obtained from manufacturers. Physical contingencies
(10.1% of project base costs) equal 15% of base costs of irrigation and flood
control civil works. For the calculation of price contingencies, it is
assumed that exchange rate adjustments will, on average, be made to maintain
the parity of purchasing power during project implementation. Price escala-
tion for both foreign and local costs when expressed in US dollars, is based
on annual international price escalation rates for all goods and services of
5Z in 1985, 7.5X in 1986, and 8% in 1987-90; and when expressed in yuan, is
based on price escalation rates of 3X p.a. in 1985-90. Price contingencies
would amount to 16% of the total cost. Estimated costs are sunmmarized in
Table 3.1 and details are given in Annex 2.



- 23 -
Table 3.1 COST SUMMARY
Foreign
Local   Foreign Total/a   Local  Foreign  Total    exchange
(Y million) -         -   (US$ million) -           (X)
Pishihang
Earthworks                    57.6      0.0   57.6      20.6       0.0      20.6         0
On-farm works                 48.8      0.0   48.8       17.4      0.0      17.4         a
Structures                    36.6     59.6   96.2       13.0     21.3      34.3        62
Chaohu
Earthworks                   100.4      0.0  100.4       35.8      0.0      35.8         0
On-farm works                 20.3       0.0   20.3       7.3      0.0       7.3         0
Structures                    18.1     29.5   47.5       6.5      10.5      17.0        62
Pumps & equipment              0.0     19.4   19.4       0.0       6.9       6.9       100
Land acquisition               8.2      0.0    8.2       2.9       0.0       2.9         0
Rural Development
Chemical fertilizer            0.0     30.0   30.0       0.0      10.7      10.7       100
Rural roads                    7.8      7.8   15.5        2.8      2.8       5.5        50
Rural eLectrification          6.4      6.7   13.1        2.3      2.4       4.7        51
Seed farms                     3.1      1.7    4.8        1.1      0.6       1.7        35
Afforestation                 15.2      0.3   15.5        5.4      0.1       5.5         2
Livestock & fish
breeding                    4.3       3.3    7.6       1.5       1.2       2.7       44
Extension & research          30.7     10.2   40.9       11.0      3.7      14.6        25
Rural credit                    13.8       5.6   19.4       4.9      2.0       6.9        29
Training & technical
assistance                    14.3      5.3   19.6        5.1      1.9       7.0        27
Base costs                  385.3    179.4  564.7    137.6        64.1    201.7
Physical contingencies          43.4     13.4   56.8       15.5      4.8      20.3        24
Price contingencies             34.1      15.3   49.4     28.6      12.9      41.5        31
Total project cost          462.8    208.1  670.9    181.7        81.8    263.5         31
/a   The project is exempt from taxes and duties.
Financing
3.27      Bank Group assistance would be an IDA Credit of SDR 75.7 million
(US$75 miLlion equivalent) and a Bank Loan of US$17 million, and would cover
35Z of total project cost. The balance of US$171.5 million equivalent would
come from budgetary grants from the central government (about US$ 19.1 mil-



- 24 -
lion), provincial and local governments (US$ 73.4 million), lending from the
ABC (US$ 2.9 million), and investments of farmers and collectives
(US$ 76.1 million). The financing plan is shown in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Estimated
Collec-                   IBRD/IDA
Category of               Central   Local          tives/  IBRD/             financing
Expenditure                Gov't    Gov't   ABC  Farmers   IDA    Total  (Z of total)
Earthworks & on-farm         9.7     26.9           65.4    8.7    110.7          8%
Structures                   9.4      14.6                 46.0      70.0        66%
Pumps & equipment                                           8.2       8.2       100%
Land Acquisition                      4.0                             4.0        O0
Chemical fertilizer                                         12.7     12.7       100%
Rural infrastructure
and support services               21.6            8.2   11.5      41.4        28%
Rural credit                                 2.9     2.5    2.9       8.2        35%
Training and techni-
cal assistance                      6.3                   2.0       8.3        242
Total                   19.1     73.4   2.9    76.1   92.0    263.5          35%
Procurement
3.28      Goods worth about US$54 million, or 59% of the Loan/Credit, would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. It is expected that there would be four main procure-
ment packages: (i) steel, cement and timber (US$26.1 million); (ii) pumps and
electrical equipment (US$10.9 million); (iii) vehicles, laboratory and office
equipment (US$4.4 million); and (iv) chemical fertilizer (US$12.7 million).
Qualified domestic manufacturers would be awarded a preference over the
competing foreign bidders of 15% or the customs duty, whichever is lower, in
bid comparison. Prior Bank Group review of contract awards wouLd exclude
small contracts ($50,000 or less) estimated to cover less than 15% of the
value of all contracts. Items including breeding animals and small amounts of
equipment costing not more than $50,000 per contract and aggregating to not
more than $2.0 million would be procured on the oasis of three price quota-
tions under procedures satisfactory to the Bank and Association. Civil works,
including earthworks (US$110.7 million, of which $8.7 million Bank Group-
financed) and construction of structures (US$48.1 million, of which $24 mil-
lion Bank Group-financed) scattered over 13 counties and carried out over five
years, would be too dispersed to be suitable for ICB. Construction of struc-
tures would be carried out through contracts let under local competitive



- 25 -
bidding (LCB) procedures, which have been reviewed and found acceptable to the
Bank (Annex 8). Labor contributed by farmers or hired under local procedures
and directed by AWRB supervisors would be used for earthworks and on-farm
development. The remaining components (US$33.8 million, none financed by the
Loan/Credit), mainly small equipment items fabricated locally and construction
of rural bui'.dings, would be procured locally under procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank Group. In the past, LCB has been rarely used in local
construction outside the water resources system, but PHO management would
encourage its use in rural development project components. Consultants would
be selected under terms of reference agreed with the Bank Group and in accor-
dance with its Guidelines on the use of consultants. General conditions of
contract for materials and equipment to be provided through ICB would follow
closely the documents used for the Rubber Project. Bid documents for imported
construction materials would be finalized by July 1, 1985, and for the remain-
ing procurement items by December, 1985.
Disbursement
3.29      Disbursements under the Loan/Credit against expenditures for con-
struction materials, pumps and electrical equipment, chemical fertilizers, and
equipment and vehicles would be at 100% of the foreign exchange costs of im-
ported items or 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items.
Disbursements for overseas training and expert services would be 100% of total
costs. Disbursement against contracts for the construction of structures for
the water conservancy system would be at 50%. Disbursement for earthworks on
the Pishihang main, branch and sublaceral canals (excluding on-farm earth-
works) would be 20% of total expenditures, and disbursement against use of
mechanical dredges in canal excavation for the Chaohu component would be 50%
of total for expenditures.  Disbursements for overseas training, for construc-
tion contracts of Less than $200,000, for equipment, fertilizer and vehicles
costing less than $100,000, and for earthworks would be against statements of
expenditure (SOEs).  In the case of structures, SOEs would be supported by
contract documents, retained by the Anhui PMO for review by Bank Group super-
vision missions. rn the case of earthworks, SOEs would be supported by pro-
gress reports showing physical quantities and unit prices which would be
updated annually by AWRB and reviewed by the Bank. Disbursement for , nstruc-
tion contracts amounting to $200,000 or more would be against contracts and
supporting documents submitted to the Bank Group. Disbursements against
agricultural credit extended by the ABC would be at 35% of subloans extended.
Supporting documentation would be retained by the Anhui ABC and be made avail-
able to Bank Group supervision missions. In order to provide for efficient
disbursement of loan/credit proceeds for the irrigation and flood control
components, a special account would be opened in US dollars in the Bank of
China with an initial deposit of US dollar equivalent of SDR 4,050,000 which
represents the average estimated 4-month expenditures. For the rural credit
component, a separate special account with an initial deposit of US dollar
equivalent of SDR 510,000 would be opened. Applications for replenishment of
these special accounts would be submitted quarterly, or whenever the special
account is drawn down to 50% of its initial deposit, whichever comes first.



- 26 -
Table 3.3:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
ICB    LCB     Other /a   Total
Earthwork and on-farm works                                 110.7         110.7
(8.7)        (8.7)
Construction and installation /b                    48.1                   48.1
(24.0)                 (24.0)
Construction materials /c                   26.1                           26.1
(26.1)                        (26.1)
Pumps and electrical equipment /d           10.9                           10.9
(10.9)                        (10.9)
Chemical fertilizer                         12.7                           12.7
(12.7)                        (12.7)
Vehicles, equipment
and breeding animals /e                    4.4              1.0           5.4
(4.4)            (1.0)        (5.4)
Rural credit If                                               8.2           8.2
(2.9)        (2.9)
Training and technical assistance                              7.6          7.6
(1.3)        (1.3)
Other components Lg                                          33.8          33.8
(0)          (0)
Total                                 54.1   48.1    161.3          263.5
(54.1) (24.0)   (13.9)        (92.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by
Loan/Credit. All amounts include contingencies.
/a     Includes (i) procurement of equipment on the basis of evaluation of
bids from at least three suppliers; (ii) local procedures, including
force account and investments by collcctives; (iii) procurement of
technical assistance and training.
/b     Of irrigation and flood control structures only.
7T     Of which, for use in irrigation and flood control structures, $21.2
million; rural roads, $3.2 million; other rural infrastructure and
construction of extension and research facilities, $1.7 million.
/d     Of which, pumps, transformers and electrical accessories, $8.2 million;
transformers for rural electrification, $2.7 million.
/e     Of which, vehicles, $1.8 million; laboratory and office equipment,
$2.6 million; breeding animals, $1.0 million.
/f     Financed solely from IDA credit.
T_    Including costs of land acquisition, tree planting, animal and fish
breeding, rural roads and electrification, seeds, extension and
research, other than costs of materiaLs and equipment procurement
included in other categories (notes c-f).



- 27 -
3.30      It is estimated that the project would be completed by about
December 1990 and closing date would be June 30, 1991. Estimated schedules of
expenditures and disbursements are given in Annex 2, Tables 2 and 4. In view
of the advanced state of design work and the experience of AWRB with civil
works, the projected disbursement schedule is shorter than the disbursement
profile for Bank Group operations in irrigation and drainage in the region.
Accounts and Audits
3.31      Records of civil works expenditures would be maintained by the Anhui
branch of the People's Construction Bank (PCB) which would be responsible for
disbursements to enterprises engaged under the project. Records of civil
works and equipment expenditures under the rural credit component would be
maintained by the Anhui branch of ABC. These records would be forwarded
annually to the Anhui PMO, which would keep parallel records of expenditures
on materials, equipment and civil works and prepare an annual account of these
expenditures. Assurances were obtained from both Anhui Province and ABC Anhui
that the accounts wouLd be audited annually by the State Audit Agency and that
the audited accounts wouLd be submitted to Bank Group within six months of the
close of each financial year.
Environmental Effects
3.32      Project activities would have no adverse environmental effects.
There would be no new exposure to schistosomiasis or other water-borne
diseases - which are not considered a major health risk in the project area in
any case - since the project focus is on improving water distribution rather
than opening up new areas to irrigation.   Moreover, project drainage improve-
ment would reduce waterlogging and flooding, and thereby cut off a major route
for transmission of parasitic disease. A positive effect of project activi-
ties would be reduced incidence of soil erosion and spread of chemicals into
watercourses as a result of installation of proper turnouts, drops and other
structures on sublaterals and construction of orderly on-farm water chan-
nels. The afforestation component would enhance timber and fueLwood supplies,
add to ground cover and reduce surface runoff, and extend windbreak protection
to most of the cultivated area.
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
4.01      Overall responsibility for carrying out the proposed project would
rest with the existing structure of provincial, prefectural (or municipal) and
county governments and their various technical agencies. Implementation of
irrigation and flood control activities in the project would specifically
involve water resources agencies, irrigation area management organizations
(Pishihang) and flood control authorities (Chaohu). Rural deveLopment activi-
ties would be directed by prefecture and county bureaus of agriculture, animal
husbandry and fisheries under supervision of the Anhui Agriculture, Animal
Husbandry and Fisheries Bureau (AAAFB). The provincial branch of the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), which reports to ABC's central office in
Beijing rather than to the provincial government, would be responsible for
carrying out the project's rural credit component.



- 28 -
4.02      To ensure efficient and timeLy execution of the proposed project and
coordination of inputs of concerned government departments and agencies, a
special project management organization would be established at the provin-
cial, prefecturaL and county Levels (Figure 4). Within the Anhui Provincial
Government a Steering Committee would be appointed to act as a policy, plann-
ing, and review board for this and similar projects involving use of foreign
funds for agriculturaL development. It would be chaired by a Deputy Governor
and incLude representatives of the AWRB, the AAAFB, the provincial ABC, the
Power Bureau, and other relevant technical agencies. Under the Steering Com-
mittee, a Project Management Office (PMO) wouLd be set up to manage the day-
to-day aspects of project execution in the three prefectures and 12 counties
participating in the project. The PMO would exist as a separate office within
the Anhui Foreign Funds Utilization Office which currently handles development
activities in Anhui financed under the IDA-financed North China Plain Project
(Cr.1462-CHA). PMO staff would consist of a Project Coordinator appointed
from the AWRB, two Deputy Coordinators, one each from the AWRB and the AAAFB,
and about 10-15 professionals, including planning specialists, accountants,
economists, and agronomists drawn principally from the Latter two Bureaus.
The PMO wouLd coordinate and supervise project impLementation in the partici-
pating prefectures and counties; revipw technical standards for design,
construction, operation and maintenance of project works; disburse funds to
executing units; administer project technical assiszance and training pro-
grams; and ensure prompt delivery of project inputs. In equipment procure-
ment, the PMO would review equipment lists, prepare technical specifications
and evaluate bids. The International Tendering Company (ITC) of the China
National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) would handle bid invitation, and
award of contracts on behalf of the PMO. The PMO would also maintain project
accounts, file disbursement applications, and prepare for submission to IDA
twice yearly reports on project progress as well as a project completion re-
port. A small project unit would be set up within MWREP's Planning Department
to serve as the Ministry's liaison with IDA and AWRB.
4.03      A similar structure of Steering Committees and PMOs would be estab-
lished for the prefectures and counties in the project. The principal func-
tion of the prefectural management units would be to coordinate and arrsnge
compensation for transfers of funds, material and labor among counties. At
the county level, the Steering Committee would review work schedules, con-
struction contracts, and annual budgets prepared by the PMOs which would be
responsible for supervising day-to-day activities of project execution. Each
PMO, headed by a deputy county chief and staffed with about 15 people, would
consist of an administrative office and five divisions: research and train-
ing, water resources engineering, agricultural technology, finance and materi-
als suppLy, and monitoring and evaluation. Major functions of the county PMKOs
would be contract management and supervision of local units involved in con-
struction of project works, including water resources construction companies
and other construction and engineering units specializing in civil works, road
building and installation of power facilities. During negotiations an assur-
ance was cbtained that the provincial, prefectural and county PMOs and the
MWREP's project unit would be established by September 1, 1985 and maintained
and adequateLy staffed with qualified personnel during the life cf the pro-
posed project.



- 29 -
4.04      A Technical Advisory Group (TAG) would be formed to assist the
Steering Committee in developing detailed plans for the project's rural devel-
opment component. The Group would consist of local experts who would agree to
serve on a short-term consultancy basis as needed during the life of the pro-
ject. Experts would be drawn principally from the Anhui Agricultural College
and the Anhui Academy of Agricultural Sciences as weLl as from educational and
research institutions outside'Anhui.  The TAG would (a) serve as a general
source of technical expertise in formulating plans for project-supported agri-
cultural activities to ensure optimal selection and management of project in-
puts; (b) develop a p'an for recruiting and training staff for the extension
stations to be establtshed by the project (para. 3.14); and (c) provide a plan
of action for upgrading the Liuan and Chaohu Secondary Agricultural Schools to
the polytechnic level (para. 3.18), including recommendations on curriculum
changes and methods of recruiting and training teaching staff. In developing
the training plans for extension personnel and teachers, the TAG would be ex-
pected to make full use of resources at Anhui AgricuLtural College's Training
and Extension Support Center which has been newLy established under the Bank's
Second Agricultural Education Project (Ln. 2444-CH/CR. 1500). An understanding
was reached at negotiations that a list of consultants who have agreed to par-
ticipate in the TAG would be presented to the Bank Group by December 31, 1985.
4.05      The provincial ABC would appoint a staff member to liaise with the
provincial PMO regarding the credit component of the project. In addition, a
small Project Unit (PU) would be established in the provincial ABC office and
in each of the ABC's county offices (subbranches) participating in the project
to appraise and supervise project subloans, ensure the proper utilization of
project funds and procurement of project investment items, maintain project
accounts, and prepare progress reports. It would also be responsible for mon-
itoring and evaluating the economic benefits and impact of project lending.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the provincial and county PUs
and the ABC liaison position with the provincial PMO would be maintained and
adequately staffed with qualified personnel during the life of the proposed
project.
Financial Management
4.06      Aside from procurement of materials and equipment under ICB, the
proceeds of the proposed Loan/Credit would be used primarily for earthworks
and construction of structures for Pishihang-Chaohu area development. Funds
for these items as well as for overseas training, study tours and consulting
services would be made available to the Government of Anhui Province through
the People's Construction Bank (PCB) and its Anhui branch. Under present
Government procedures, the province would repay the central government for
funds or goods received through the Loan/Credit.
4.07      Local (provincial, prefectural and county) contributions to the
project would be channeled through the Anhui PCB and other local branches. At
the beginning of each year, the Government of Anhui would obtain guarantees
from the planning offices of the prefectures, counties, townships and villages
responsible for contributions to the project that the requisite funds for the
project would be included in that year's financial plan. Such funds would be
deposited on an annual basis into project accounts at the PCB branches for use
by the PMOs solely in carrying out the project.



- 30 -
4.08      In the case of the rural credit component, project funds of
$2.9 miLlion from the IDA credit would be onlent by Anhui to the ABC under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be concluded as a condition of credit
effectiveness. The Bank's understanding is that the Subsidiary Loan would be
repaid by ABC, which would onlend project funds to subborrowers at the
prevailing interest rate for long-term agricultural loans. Subborrowers would
be required to contribute a minimum of 30Z of the total project costs. In
addition, the repayment periods of the subborrowers would be determined by
ABC's cash flow estimates of their subloans but not exceeding 20 years.
4.09      Project Agreements incorporating the above terms and conditions
(varas. 4.06 and 4.08) would be signed between IBRD/IDA and the Covernment of
Anhui Province and between IDA and ABC. State Council approval of the Loan
and Credit Agreements and Anhui Project Agreement, as well as execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Anhui and ABC, would be conditions of effec-
tiveness of the Credit.
Execution of Project Works
4.10      Construction of the project's irrigation and water control
structures would be handled through contracts based on local competitive
bidding (LCB) (Annex 8). This would be the first case of LCB in Bank-financed
agricultural projects in China. Units eligible to participate in LCB would
include qualified water resource and other civil engineering companies at all
administrative levels throughout China. Construction would be managed by
provinciaL, prefectural and county work supervision offices (WSOs) which have
been estabLished as is the usual practice in China in the case of large
construction projects (Figure 5). The WSOs for water resources construction
projects are temporary units staffed mostly with engineers and technicians on
loan from water resources agencies. The WSOs, acting on behalf of and under
the supervision of the PMOs, would invite and negotiate contract bids with
construction companies and work units; carry out quality control including
materials testing during the construction phase; provide the PMOs with the
necessary documents for disbursement of funds; and channel payments for com-
pleted work from the PMOs to the work units as specified in the contracts.
These offices would also be directly responsible for carrying out earthwork
for canals and drains, employing local labor during the off-season and their
own full-time skilled labor and supervisors. Following practices traditional
in water resource development in China, earthworks construction would be
largely financed by direct charges on farm households benefiting from project
works.  The charges, which are normally commuted to labor at about Y2.00 per
man day, would provide the equivalent of two man-weeks per farm annually
during the implementation period for earthworks construction. Construction of
roads, power lines and civil works for the experiment stations and training
and flood control centers would be carried out by for the most part by county
level construction companies.



- 31 -
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.11      The Anhui PM0 in cooperation with the Pishihang Irrigation Area GA
and the prefecture and county PMOs would monitor and evaluate the project's
impact and economic benefits. Early in project impLementation the Anhui PMO
would conduct a study in the project area to determine current levels of
inputs and production, crop yields and farm incomes. This would form the base
line from which to measure changes resulting from the project, and would be
updated annually by the county PMOs which would also collect statistics on the
physical and financial progress of the project. Experience to date with Bank
Group projects in agriculture shows effective interagency coordination and
close monitoring of project execution - including detailed record keeping - by
project management organizations.  To assist in data processing and anaLysis
for on-going evaluation of project outputs, the project would provide compu-
ters to each county PMO and training in data management techniques to PMO
staff. In addition, monitoring and evaluation would be one of the main topics
for discussion at the project launch workshop to be held at the outset of
project implementation (para. 3.20). Continual analysis of project outputs,
effects and impact would enable project management to make any necessary
adjustments in institutional arrangements, procurement schedule and resource
flows. The Anhui PMO would be responsible for preparing twice-yearly progress
reports to be submitted to IDA within one month of the end of each half year
and a project completion report to be submitted not later than six months
following completion of credit disbursements.
Operation and Maintenance
4.12      Pishihang Canal Network.  The Pishihang GA would be responsible for
the operation and maintenance of the project's irrigation and drainage works
(Figure 6). Canals would be operated in accordance with the water allocation
plan prepared by the GA each season on the basis of the county WRBs' estimates
of requirements. Water use contracts between county water resource bureaus
and the Pishihang CA were introduced in 1983 as a means to encourage more
efficient use of the available water supply. These contracts specify cropping
patterns, number of ha of fields to be irrigated, total estimated water
requirements, water charges and schedules of water delivery to each designated
point on the canal system. Based on recommendations em.erging from the
project-supported system operations study (para. 3.22), the project would
upgrade communications and climatic data collection equipment so that canals
might operate on a varying discharge basis reflecting week to week variations
in local demand. Water delivery to the submain canals would be the respon-
sibility of the irrigation area branch administrations (para. 2.12) in
accordance with water use contracts arranged with area districts and town-
ships. As part of the proposed project, turnouts at the submain canal level
and above would be equipped with facilities for volumetric measurement of
water supplied at the various county border points. Water distribution to the
branch canals, laterals, and sublaterals would be regulated by local
management units organized for each major turnout. In accordance with the
present system, contracts between these local units and villages or groups of
households would outline the water rights of the latter with respect to
quantity and timing of flow and would also stipulate water rates and define
the obligation to provide labor for maintenance of project works.



- 32 -
4.13      Chaohu Flood Control Works.  Operation and maintenance of the newly
constructed Niudunhe Flood Diversion Channel and the Fenghuangjing and
Shendanhu pumping stations would be carried out by specially created
management units for each faciLity established under the Chaohu Prefectural
WRB. Operation and maintenance of smaller structures along the Xihe would be
the responsibility of concerned water resources agencies at the county and
township levels.
4.14      Operation and maintenance costs for both the Pishihang irrigation
and drainage network and the Chaohu flood control facilities would be met by a
combination of water use charges and the "social labor obligation" which
requires each farmer to contribute one labor day per cultivated mu per year to
desilt and repair the primary canal system. The labor obligation may accumu-
late on the books of the irrigation agencies and be drawn upon as required.
Maintenance of on-farm works would be carried out as needed by the individual
farm households which are the beneficiaries of the improved structures. Major
repairs to the structures are included in the budget of the water resources
system. In exceptional cases such as floods and droughts, irrigation area
management groups may apply for government subsidies or low interest loans to
help cover operation and maintenance costs.
Water Charges
4.15      The Government recognizes the need to increase water charges to
provide incentives for more efficient water use and to make available at the
local level funds for management, maintenance and repair of irrigation and
flood control structures. Steps are being taken not only to adjust rates
upward, but to institute new methods of assessment: first, to establish
different rates according to category of user (e.g., industrial, municipal,
agricultural) and, second, for agriculture, to shift from the fixed per mu
assessment in force until now to a formuLa which takes into account irrigated
area, volume of water used, and net benefits from irrigation. The Anhui
Government in 1982 issued revised water charge regulations establishing a
fixed basic fee of Y6 yuan per 3ha plus a volumetric charge, measured at the
county border, of YO.004 per m of water used. Areas currently lacking
complete distribution facilities would be temporarily assessed at the rate of
Y30-45 per ha in addition to the basic fee. Plans are to gradually introduce
further adjustments once basic rates are established - e.g., to base charges
on the actual area, which is about 25% larger than the area expressed in the
"customary mu" in use in the Pishihang area. In addition, incentives in the
form of lower water rates are to be provided to water users who practice water
conservation and use to the fullest local water resources from small service
reservoirs and ponds. With this revised irrigation fee structure in force,
revenues will exceed considerably the costs of repairs, replacement,
depreciation, and management.



- 33 -
V. PRODUCTION, PROCESSING, MARKETING AND PRICES
Production
5.01      Cropping Patterns.  The total presently cultivated area in the
project is about 918,000 ha, of which 320,000 ha would benefit from Pishihang
irrigation improvements, 220,000 ha from Chaohu irrigation flood control and
drainage improvements, and 379,000 ha from the rural development component
above. These areas are not expected to change significantly in the future.
Cropped area (excluding green manure) totals about 1.56 million ha, giving a
cropping intensity of 170%. Rice, which is the most important food grain,
accounts for some 850,000 ha or 53%; wheat, 257,000 ha; maize, 14,000 ha;
tubers, 19,000 ha; other grains (primarily barley), 46,000 ha; and soybean,
32,000 ha. Oilseeds are planted on 236,000 ha, the most important being rape,
with smaller areas under peanuts and sesame. Other industrial crops include
cotton, on 66,000 ha and kenaf on 15,000 ha. Creen manure precedes rice on
some 134,000 ha annually.
5.02      Coimnon cropping systems include green manure/rice/rice, concentrated
in the southern part of the project area, in which green manure is grown from
October to mid-May, followed by early rice harvested in late July, and late
rice harvested in early October. Other common rotations include wheat,
barley, or rape as winter crops harvested from late May to late June; followed
by intermediate or late rice, maize, or soybean. Industrial crops are
generally sown in spring from early- to mid-April, but may also follow rape or
barley (Figure 7).
5.03      With or without project, changes in cropping patterns would be
limited. The area has a strong comparative advantage in rice production which
would be reinforced by project improvements. However, better water control
and increased water supply with project would lead to intensification of rice
production through wider use of the green manure/ricelrice rotation on a
reduced total paddy field area. Because of a rapidly expandiro market for
livestock products and project support for their production, aemand for feed-
grains would increase. This in turn would induce expansion of area in barley,
maize and soybean at the expense of wheat and single-cropped r.'ce. Increased
area in oilseeds and kenaf is also expected.
5.04      Crop Yields and Production.  Significant yield increases have been
experienced in the last decade for major crops due to improved irrigation and
drainage, a rapid increase in chemical fertilizer supplies beginning in Late
1970's, decentralization of farm management and procurement price increases
since 1979. Yields of "minor" grains and industrial crops, grown largely on
non-irrigated areas, have been modest and widely fluctuating, reflecting mini-
mal management emphasis and effects of varying weather conditions. Further
yield increases will require investments in the water distribution system,
seed conditioning, extension and research facilities, and efforts to remedy
soil deficiencies in phosphorus and potassium.
5.05      With project, yield increases would occur at different rates in
areas benefiting from different components of project works. Reflecting



- 34 -
improved operating practices throughout the irrigation system, improved seeds,
extension services, soil fertility, and other improvements in infrastructure,
yields of rice in all project areas would increase from 4.0 t/ha to 4.6 tons
(15Z) at full development (1994); wheat from 1.9 to 2.4 tons (262); corn, from
1.8 to 2.6 tons (44Z); and soybean, from 1.3 to 1.6 tons (23%). Increased
demand for crops such as barley, corn and soybean would lead to improved
management and thus increased yields, whereas yields of oilseeds, which
already show the effects of good crop husbandry, would increase only about 8Z.
5.06      In the areas benefiting from increased summer irrigation, greater
yield increases would be expected for crops such as rice, maize, soybean and
cotton. YieLds of rice would reach 5.4 t/ha (up 35Z) in the Pishihang irriga-
tion benefit area, and 4.7 t/ha (18%) in the Chaohu irrigation benefit area,
where the increment in water supply is small. Expect-I annual crop yields in
the Chaohu irrigaton area would also benefit from flocol control works, con-
sidered separately below. Total production of foodgrains (rice and wheat)
would increase from 3.9 to 4.9 million tons (26Z); feedgrains (including
soybean) from 0.2 to 0.5 mt (124Z); oilseeds from 0.3 to 0.4 mt (24Z); and
fibers from 0.05 to 0.1 mt (132Z) (Annex 5).
5.07      Livestock.  Pig and poultry raising by households has been the main
source of income from livestock in the project area. Cattle and buffalo are
used mainly as draft animals; sheep numbers are insignificant. Present pig
inventories total 1.7 million head, an average of one per household. The
finishing rate to slaughter weight of 100 kg is only about 62% due to reLiance
on forage and Low-energy rice processing wastes rather than high-quality
feedstuffs. Poultry raising, primarily of chickens and ducks, is likewise
inefficient. The present inventory of 12 million birds, averaging under seven
per household, has a finishing rate of 38Z for chickens (only spent hens and
roosters are marketed) and 94% for ducks. Annual egg production from local
breeds of chicken under household conditions is little more than 100 eggs per
Layer. Only about 8.5% of farm income in thq project area is presently
derived from livestock production, and this situation would not change without
the investments in support services and improved supplies of feedgrains with
project.
5.08      With project, pig and poultry raising would be increasingly
specialized and market-oriented. The development of local feed processing
enterprises with support from the Credit Component, increased availability of
higher-quality concentrates, introduction of improved breeds, and expanded
veterinary services would raise efficiency, improving the finishing rate for
pigs to about 100% and for ducks to 192Z. Considering only the effects of
improvements financed by the project, numbers of finished pigs would increase
by 145% to 2.7 million, chickens by 113% to 4.9 million, ducks by 466% to
35 million, egg production by 172% to 41,000 t, and draft animal stocks would
grow by 9Z to 440,000 (Annex 5).
5.09      Due to necessary improvements in feeding standards, the 100%
increase in gross output from livestock production would require a 200%
increase in feed concentrate supply in the project area (Annex 5), from about
0.4 to 1.3 mt. This is equivalent to about three-fourths of incremental
production of food and feed grains. However, it is expected that about 25Z of



- 35 -
increased feedgrain requirements would be supplied as soybean and maize
produced in northern Anhui, in exchange for rice produced in the project area
(see para. 5.14 below).
5.10      Forestry.  The tot l project area has a standing volus-e of timber
totalling only 6.4 million m yielding a cut of about 223,000 m p.a. as well
as fuelwood. Farm income from this source averages Y 27 per family,
presumably including state or collective subsidies for afforestation work.
With project, upgrading and consoLidation of nurseries and direct investment
in tree planting would add 19,370 ha of commerciaL forest and 6,930 ha of
border plantings. With good management practices, including thinning every
five yea5s and harvest in the 25th year, each hectare would yield an average
of 1.9 m p.a. of poles and logs in years 5-24 and about 110 m of logs at
maturity (Annex 5). Assuming sustainable cuttins levels for existing stands,
annual timber production would rise to 270,600 m p.a. (212) by 1994 and
standing volume to 7.2 million o3 (122).
5.11      Fisheries.  The project area has a totaL of 747,000 ha of fresh
water surface area, incLuding ponds, canals and small and large reservoirs.
Of this area, some 110,000 ha of fishponds are currently stocked with finger-
lings provided by state or collective nurseries, but often with little
additional management or feeding, so that annual yields average only about
0.2 ton/ha. With project, nurseries would be expanded to permit stocking of
an additional 18,200 ha of fishpond. The fingerlings would be sold to
specialized households practicing intensive fish farming, including pond
enrichment with manure and grass or vegetable waste. Under intensive
management, yields would exceed 3.75 t/ha (Annex 5) and, even if no
improvements in management are made for ponds presently stocked, total project
area output of fish would increase from 22,700 t to 90,800 t.   Loans would
also be made available under the Credit Component to permit upgrading of
equipment and the introduction of caged fish culture techniques by fisheries
teams managing state or collective-owned reservoirs.
5.12      Flcod Control.  In the past three decades, serious flooding in the
Chaohu area has occured once every three years and required breaching of dikes
and inundation of from 5,000 to 62,000 ha of cultivated area to a depth of
about 3 meters. Without project, the expected annual area of inundation would
be about 7,400 ha; with flood control works, damage from ordinary floods would
be eliminated, but major flood events with a frequency of once in 15-20 years
would still lead to an expected annual inundation of 1,700 ha. Flood losses
at full development would average about Y 12,000 per cultivated ha inundated,
of which Y 9,700 would be losses of annual production or damage to private
property and the remainder damage to public property and social costs of flood
relief (Annex 5).
Processing and Marketing
5.13      Though China in che last few years has built up such ample reserves
of rice, wheat, cotton and oilseeds as to create a potential export surplus,
domestic consumption of fine grains is on the rise and expected to again
overtake supply. Shortages of feedgrains (e.g., corn, barley and soybean) are
also expected to occur in response to expansion of the livestock sector; this



- 36 -
will force either large net imports of feed from abroad or shifts in domestic
cropping patterns such as are expected to occur in the Pishihang-Chaohu area
as a result of the project. However, in the case of Pishihang-Chaohu, the
projected increase in local feedgrain production will not alter the area's
large comparative advantage in rice production (whether measured on the basis
of financial or economic prices, current or projected yields). The province
as a whole has become a net exporter of grain to other provinces; in 1982
about 1 million tons, the bulk of it from the project area, was shipped out by
rail alone. The Government expects other regions to increasingly specialice
in feedgrains or industrial crops while depending on central Anhui as a
reliable source of foodgrain supplies. As the project area has access by
waterway to the Changjiang and by rail to north and south China, it is weLl
situated to serve as a commercial suppLy base for deficit regions.
5.14      The Government has ended its monopoLy on procurement of grain as
well as other products, and is encouraging the growth of private sector trans-
port, marketing and processing operations. In the future the Provincial
Government will procure a portion of grain production under contracts with
farmers, and a growing proportion will be marketed through efforts of the
rural Supply and Marketing Cooperatives or individual farmers. The Provincial
Government intends to enlarge the volume of project area foodgrains exchanged
for feedgrains produced in northern Anhui from 10,000 t at present to at least
200,000 t at full development, and plans to make required improvements in
storage and transport systems. The rural credit component of the project
would include subloans to government, cooperative or private enterprises to
enlarge storage, processing and transport capacity, including feed processing
facilities required for the development of coumercial livestock production.
Prices
5.15      As a result of 1984 reform measures, the quota procurement system,
is being replaced by arrangements to buy on contract at fixed prices set by
the Government at approximately the average sales price received by farmers
under the previous system. Production above contractual requirements would be
sold on the free market at supplies determined by supply and demand. The
average farmgate price of each crop used in the financial analysis is a
weighted average of official and free market prices. The weights are the
total amounts of each crop sold at each price, except that the weights of
market prices include all amounts retained by farmers (including seed and
feed). Similar assumptions apply to livestock, fisheries, and forestry
produ.ts.
5.16      In view of the ongoing reforms of the marketing system, future price
trends are highly uncertain, hence the financial analysis is conducted largely
in 1984 prices. Because of the Government's commitment to maintain agricul-
tural production incentives while avoiding undue inflationary pressure on
urban wage or food subsidy levels, it is assumed that any major changes in
price levels to full development will be accompanied by compensating adjust-
ments in taxation. However, the prices of pork, beef, timber and fish are
projected to increase, due to current unprofitability of production and
expected improvements in product quality. For the economic analysis, farm
input and output values and project construction costs are based on Bank Group



- 37 -
commodity price forecasts for 1990, adjusted for international and domestic
transport costs and expressed in end-1984 constant prices. Conversion factors
are used to derive economic prices for items which do not enter into
international trade (Annex 5).
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Production and Benefits
6.01      Improved irrigation and drainage affecting 549,000 ha and improve-
ments to support services and infrastructure over 918,000 ha would add 1 mil-
lion tons of foodgrains, 0.3 million tons of feedgrains, 67,000 tons of
oilseeds, and 62,000 tons of fiber crops to current project area production.
Increased production of other products would include pork (133,000 tons), beef
(4,300 tons), chicken (3,900 tons), eggs (25,800 tons), ducks (56,600 tons),
fish (68,300 tons), sawlogs (47,300 cu m) and standing timber (789,000 cu
m). Flood protection affecting 220,000 ha would eliminate social losses of
Y 68 million per year, including about 34,000 ton/year of grain, counting both
standing crops and relief grain.
Employment and Income
6.02      The farm labor force in the project area is currently seasonally
underemployed and empLoyment opportunities generated directly by the project
would approximately offset a rate of natural increase for the farm population
assumed to be 1% p.a. The project would generate about 200,000 additional
jobs or 7% more than the situation without project. Seasonal labor requirem-
ents presently peak in May, when crop production (harvesting of winter crops
and preparation or planting of summer crops) absorbs as much as 86Z of farm
labor. With project, the increase 4.n multiple cropping along with a larger
volume of crops to be harvested would slightly increase peak crop requirements
in May to 88Z of supply and sharpen an additional peak in October to 84%, even
though crop production on average would only absorb 56Z of available labor
(Annex 6).
6.03      At present, 20% of labor supply is seasonally engaged in activities
other than crop production. With project, this would rise to about 23% of
available labor, of which no more than 12% would be needed (in livestock and
fisheries) during peak cropping periods. Considering also the expansion of
labor supply at peak periods through overtime work and inclusion of children
and the elderly, peak requirements with project can be met. The financial
wage in the project area is about Y 2.00 per workday, close to the average
value-added per man-day in crop production and in excess of the value of
labor's marginal product. As about one-half of this figure is estimated to
represent rental value of farmland, for the purposes of the economic analysis,
labor has been priced at 50% of this figure, multiplied by the consumption
conversion factor to yield a shadow wage of Y 1.62 per workday.
6.04      Farm sizes differ onLy siightly, ranging from about 0.35 to 0.6 ha
per farm, across the project area. Farms are generally centered on paddy rice



- 38 -
production but diversified in cropping patterns and side activities, and nor-
mal crop yields are similar even in areas of different terrain. Consequently
the analysis of farm incomes distinguishes three types of farm receiving
different combinations of benefits from the project, viz. Model A which bene-
fits from increased irrigation water from the Pishihang scheme, Model B which
receives flood protection as well as some increased irrigation water and
improved drainage from the Chaohu scheme, and Model C which covers the remain-
ing parts of the project area, and would benefit only from improved infra-
structure and increased support services under the rural development component
of the project. Estimates of outputs, inputs and other parameters are based
on Annex 5 and derived from farm surveys, estimates of Government staff and
the mission during project preparation and appraisal. Annex 6 presents the
farm budgets for the farm models.
6.05      The present annual household incomes generated by the models
ranges  from Y585 for Model B to Y964 for Model A, the former reflecting the
greater population pressure and smaller farm size in the Chaohu flood control
area. These translate into a per capita income range of US$49 to US$68. rhe
estimated national per capita income in 1984 is about US$350. At full
development in 1994, the projected per capita incomes would range between
US$77 and US$88, increases from 29% to 57Z respectively, while the national
per capita income is expected to rise to about US$560. Thus, while most of
the project beneficiaries would have incomes above the absolute poverty line
of US$67 per capita, they would still be below the critical consumption level
(CCL of US$141), defined as one-fourth of the GNP per capita. Without the
project per capita incomes would decline, due to population growth.
Project Charges
6.06      Cost recovery for the project would have several elements.  A
portion of earthworks and structure construction costs amounting to Y 155 mil-
lion would be raised through cash or labor levies on benefiting households.
This would represent direct and immediate cost recovery. An additional
portion of project expenditure (Y 45 million) would be recovered from payments
received from beneficiaries for purchase of chemical fertilizer, animal stock,
fish fries and fingerlings, and commercial seeds or seedlings. Lending by the
ABC for production development of Y 19 million would be repaid with interest
by borrowers. Irrigation fees paid for increased surface water deliveries
would yield an additional Y 27 million per year, and labor obligations for
repair and maintenance of the system down to the on-farm level would be worth
an additional Y 21 million p.a. In addition, the Chaohu flood contol works
would eliminate an annual public loss of Y 13 miLlion p.a. in destruction of
property and disaster relief expenditure.
6.07      As the largest proportion of project charges occur during project
implementation, rent recovery at full development averages only 13% of esti-
mated project rents. Discounted over the life of the project, the rent
recovery index is 22% for the project as a whole, but ranges from 26% to 29%
in areas benefiting from irrigation or flood control works. Public sector
outlays are defined to include O&M costs but exclude costs of rural develop-
ment components which are recovered directly from sales to farmers, fees for
service, or loan repayments; and cost recovery includes reduced public



- 39 -
expenditures due to flood control works. On this basis, the cost recovery
index would be 742. As per capita incomes at full development fall well below
the CCL, the low rent recovery indices are considered satisfactory. The rate
of cost recovery is also not excessive in view of a low rate of general rural
taxation (US$15/ha).
Economic Analysis
6.08      A total initial investment cost of US$222 million, which includes
physical contingencies but excLudes price contingencies, was used in the
economic analysis. All economic values were converted to local currency at
the official exchange rate at appraisal of Y 2.8 = US$1.00. Project works
were assumed to have a residual value in the 25th year of 25Z of initial
investment cost. Prices and conversion rates as well as all components of
cost and benefit streams are presented in Annexes 5 and 6. Using these
assumptions and discounting costs and benefits over 25 years, the project's
economic rate of return (ERR) is 36% (Table 6.1), ranging from 33-34X in the
areas benefiting from water conservancy works to 46% in areas benefiting from
rural development components alone. At a discount rate of 12%, which is
considered to approximate the opportunity cost of capital in China, the net
presenc value (NPV) of the project is Y 3.1 billion (US$1.1 billion equiva-
lent). The high economic rates of return reflect the low per hectare costs of
upgrading and completing existing irrigation and flood control systems as well
as high benefit/cosc ratios for rural development components.
6.09      Sensitivity of the ERR was tested to shortfalls from projected
yields or prices, cost overruns, benefit delays, variations in the economic
value of labor, and combinations of the above (Table 6.1 and Annex 6, Table
8). Switching values (value of the variable tested at which the NPV of the
project, with benefits and costs discounted at 12%, is reduced to zero) and
NPV elasticities (the percentage change in NPVs due to a one percent change in
the key variable) were calculated. No single variant proved crucial to the
project' s economic viability. A decline in crop yields of 5% from present
levels would be required to reduce the ERR to 12%, indicating the importance
of diversification into livestock, fisheries and forestry to project
returns. However, elimination of increased net benefits from non-crop
production would still leave an ERR of 30%. In general, economic viability
would only be threatened by an unlikely combination of major shortfalls and
overruns.
Project Risks
6.10 The project faces no significant technical or organizational risks. The
project management organization builds on a similar interagency structure
which has been successful in coordinating the implementation of the Anhui
portion of the North China Plain Agriculture Project. Morever, the partici-
pating agencies have worked together successfully in project preparation.
AWRB, the leading agency involved in construction of project works, is
adequately staffed with competent engineers and managers and has had several
decades of experience with construction, operation and maintenance of large-
scale water control works. Marketing for rice involves some uncertainty,
which could lead to the use of rice as feedgrain in place of imports of maize



- 40 -
from other areas. This might be an efficient solution of the marketing and
feed supply problems if adequate high-protein feed supplements were provided.
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Economic net
Economic rate    present value
of return           @ 122
Subarea or variation                               (Z)            (Y miLlion)
Base Case
Subarea
Pishihang Irrigation Benefit Area              33                  1,053
Chaohu Irrigation Benefit Area                 34                    962
Other Benefit Areas                            46                  1,070
Total Project                            36                 3,085
Variations from Base Case
Total project
A 20% reduction in crop yields                  18                   418
A 20X decrease in crop prices                  32                  2,379
No increase in non-crop production             30                  1,932
A 50% increase in cash operation costs         28                  1,940
A 20% increase in investment and
0 & H costs                                  33                  2,929
1OOZ increase in shadow wage                   31                 2,582
100% increase in wage and operation costs    14                      288
A 10% reduction in yieLds combined with
a 20% increase in operation costs            14                  1,233
Lag in production buildup increased from
5 to 11 years                                26                  1,868
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      At negotiations agreement was reached with the Central Government
that the MWREP's project unit would be established by September 1, 1985 and
maintained and adequately staffed with qualified personnel throughout the life
of the project (para. 4.03).
7.02      Agreement was reached with the Anhui Provincial Government that:
(a) a plan for provision of phosphate and potassium fertilizers to the
project area would be prepared and discussed with the Bank Group
prior to November 1 of each year (para. 3.11);



- 41 -
(b) a report presenting the main findings of the operations studies
would be prepared by the PMO and submitted to the Bank Group for
review not later than December 31, 1989 (para. 3.22);
(c)  accounts would be audited annually by the State Audit Agency and the
audited accounts woMld be submitted to IDA within six months of the
cLose of each financial year (para. 3.31); and
(d) the provincial, prefectural and county project management offices
would be established by September 1, 1985 and maintained and
adequately staffed with qualified personnel during the life of the
project (para. 4.03).
In addition, an understanding was reached with Anhui that a list of
consultants who have agreed to participate in the Technical. Advisory Group
wouLd be presented to the Bank Group by December 31, 1985 (para. 4.04).
7.03      Agreement was reached with ABC thac:
(a) ABC Anhui would appraise alL subprojects using the procedures and
criteria set out in the Rural Credit Project Appraisal Manual issued
by ABC Beijing and approved by IDA in Cr. 1462-CHA; subloans for the
first three subprojects would be submitted to IDA for approval; and
individual subloans in excess of $300,000 would require IDA's prior
approval (para. 3.16);
(b) the ABC provincial and county project units and the ABC liaison
position with the provincial PMO would be maintained and adequately
staffed with qualified personnel during the life of the project
(para. 4.05).
7.04      Conditiors of effectiveness would be:
(a) concLusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and ABC
(para. 4.08);
(b) conclusion of Project Agreements between IBRD/IDA and the Government
if Anhui Province, and between IDA and ABC (pare. 4.09); and
(c) State Council approval of the Credit and Loan agreements :ad the
ADhui Province Agreement (para. 4.09).
7.05      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would consti-
tute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 75.7 million (US$75 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms and a Bank Loan of US$17 million at the
standard variable rate and for 20 years with 5 years of grace. The Borrower
would be the People's Republic of China.



CHINA
PISHIHANG-CAOHIU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Climatological Data
Irrigation area                       Jan   Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov   Dec   Total
Average Dailv TemDerature tC)
Pihe (1956-70)                      6.6   8.8   14.1   20.2   25.3   30.0   33.3   32.7   27.0   21.8   15.2   9.2
Shihe (1957-70)                    6.3   8.5   14.0   19.9   25.5   30.2   32.8   32.4   26.7   21.8   14.9   8.8
Hangbuhe (1957-70)                  6.9   8.8   14.2   19.9   25.1   29.3   32.7   32.9   27.5   22.2   15.7   9.4
Chaohu (1957-80)                    2.7   4.5    9.4   15.6   20.8   25.2   28.7   28.3   23.1   17.5   11.2   5.2
Avarase Rainfall (am)                                                                                                                     4.
Pihe (1951-80)                       30    48      71      94    105    129    178    126         83      51      46    29      990    1
Shihe (1951-80)                     30    45       70      92    105    132    187    125         86      50      46    29      997
Hangbuhe (1951-80)                   34    57    116    114    134    148    175    111           R7      56      51    33   1,116
Chaohu (1957-80)                    29    48       78    104    111    122    161    100          85      50      52    27      967
AveraRe Evaporation (mun)
Plhe l(9I1-80)                       32    40      73      99    131    155    161    157    105          86      53    37   1,129
Shihe (1951-80)                      31    39      71      96    126    156    156    149    101          83      51    36   1,095
Hangbuhe (1951-80)                   35    42      68      94    124    137    158    158    103          87      56    41   1,103
Chaohu (1957-80)                     57    64    106    141    178    204    242    228    154    133             85    63   1,655
Average Sunshine (hr.)
Pihe (1956-70)                      159   152    156    172    200    230    260    246    170    198    161   155   2,259
Shihe (1957-70)                    153   146    158    163    198    227    247    249    164    18R    146   155   2,194
Hangbuhe (1957-70)                  165   152    167    172    205    243    286    280    199    206    166   163   2,404
Chaohu (1957-80)                    142   131    144    160    182    204    236    245    170    186    155   151   2,106
rflI



CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Major Soil Types and Nutrients
Avail-    Total    Avail-    Total    Avail-
Total        able       phos-      able       potas-    able    Organic
Soil type                  Area    PH         nitrogen        t       phorous    P 0         sium        K 0       matter
(Z)                 (Z)         (PPM)        (Z)      (PEM4i       (Z)      (PPM)       (X)
Pi Shi Hang
Yellowish-brown            15    5.5-6.5   0.07*0.01   60-80   0.04*0.02    5*2    1.70*0.20   60*20                 1.0
Paddy soil                78    6.5-7.5   0.10*0.03   50-80   0.03*0.005   7*3    1.50*0.20   80*20                 1.5
Alluvial soil               7    6.5-7.5   0.07*0.03        -      0.100.02   20*5    2.50O0.20   40t10          1-2.0 
Chaohu
Yellowish-brown            13    5.5-6.5         -        50-70         -         4*1         -          50          1.5
Paddy soil                80    6.5-7.5        0.12         70        0.09        4*2         -        60*10      1-3.0
Alluvial soil              7    7.0-7.5   0.08-0.10         80        0.08        4*2        1.5       25t10        2.0
. _ .~~~~~~~H



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
PTSHTHANG-CHAOII A   FlKLPF    PRQ.[I
Proiect rst iummazr La
Pishihang   Chaohu      Total       Pishihang   Chaohu      Total
Category                                            Y millions ---------       --          US$ millions -    ---
Earthworks                                    57.6      100.4       158.0         20.6       35.9        56.4
On-farm Works                                 48.8       20.3        69.1          17.4       7.3        24.7
Pumps and Power Equipment                      0.0       19.4        19.4          0.0        6.9         6.9
Structures and Installation                   96.2       47.5       143.7         34.4       17.0        51.3
Land Aquisitlon and Resettlement               0.0        8.2         8.2          0.0        2.9         2.9
Chemical fertilizer                           20.0       10.0        30.0          7.1        3.6        10.7
Rural Roads. Bridges and Culverts             10.5        5.0        15.5           3.8       1.8         5.5
Rural Flectrificati=
Transformer substations                      2.4        0.5         3.0          0.9        0.2         1.1
High voltage lines                           5.8        0.0        5.8           2.1        0.0         2.1
Low voltage lines                            1.8        1.7         3.5          0.6        0.6         1.3
Small-scale hydropower                       0.8        0.0        0.8           0.3        0.0         0.3
Subtotal                                 1tO          -.a       13.1 .                    Q,Q        4.7
Seed farms                                     4.4        0.4         4.8           1.6       0.2         1.7
Afforestation
Nurseries                                    2.7        0.0        2.7           1.0        0.0         1.0
Forests and border plantings                12.8        0.0        12.8          4.6        0.0         4.6
Subtotal                                  TR.S        _Q.       1. R...5                  Q5.5.
LivestgoC  FSh Breedina
Livestock breeding                           2.8        0.0        2.8           1.0        0.0         1.0
Fish nurseries                               3.5        1.2        4.8           1.3        0.4         1.7
Subtotal                                   f.a        12         Z;k          2L.3        DA         La
Extension Md Hesearch
Water resource experiment station            1.2        0.0         1;2          0.4        0.0         0.4
Prefectural*research centers                 2.7        1.5        4.1           0.9        0.5         1.5
Agrotechnical centers and stations          13.3       11.2       24.6           4.1        3.7         8.8
Veterinary and AI stations                   5.6        3.4         9.1          2.0        1.2         3.2
Forest extension/protection                  1.9        0.0         1.9          0.7        0.0         0.7
Subtotal                                25s1       15& 8      40                        S  5.i    14.6
Rural credit
Animal husbandry                             i.8        0.0        1.8           0.7        0.0         0.7
Fisheries                                    2.6        0.0        2.6           0.9        0.0         0.9
Proceasing                                   9.8        5.2        15.0          3.5        1.8         5.3
Subtotal                                  14 2        i.Z       iLk            5A1        1.6
Trainlng A.nd tehnical as tance
Irrigation training center                   0.8        0.0        0.8           0.3        0.0        0.3
Prefectural agricultural schools             2.7        0.0        2.7           1.0        0.0         1.0
Management assistance                        8.9        4.1        13.1          3.2        1.5         4.7
Consultants and study tours                  1.4        1.6        3.0           0.5        0.6         1.1
Subtotal                                  1R .A       5._      1I.             La9       2.1        Z,Q
XA    L=                                 '42Co2     2418       15647         1tR_4        i.3      201-7
Physical contingency                        30.4       26.4       56.8          10.8        9.5       20.3
Price contingency                           28.0       21.4       49.4          23.5       18.0       41.5
Tota1 Proiee  Cost                      381-6      28qLI      670-q         14.7       1tR.8      261-S
La   Totals may not add due to rounding.



- 45-                              ANM        2
Tibl 2
cam
PISHIRXNG-CHAOIU A3M  DXVLORNT PROJIPCT
Proie St ! hoEturn Schedul  /a
-(US$ d    mm)oc
Category                                 1986    1987    1988    1989    1990      Total
Earthworke                                13.2    12.3    9.0    11.3    10.6    56.4
On-farm Works                              2.5      1.8     5.3     7.6     7.b    24.7
Pumps and Power equip_nt                   3.0     3.0     0.8      -        -      6.9
Structures and Installation               13.9    15.0     9.3     7.0      6.2    51.3
Land Aquloition and Rwsettleamut           0.6     0.6     0.3    0.7       0.7     2.9
Chemical Fertilizer                        7.1     3.6      -       -        -     10.7
Raral Roads, BrIdges & Culverts            2.5      1.9    0.9    0.1        -      5.5
Rural Uaectrlfication
Transrormer *ubstatlond                  0.6     0.3     0.2      -        -      1.1
High voltage llnes                       1.0     0.8     0.3      -        -      2.1
Lo  voltage linee                        0.5     0.4     0.2     0.1      0.1     1.3
Small-_cale hydropower                    -      0.3      -                - -    0.3
Subtotal                              2.1     1.7    0.6      0.1     0.1      4.7
Seed farms                                 0.8     0.6     0.3      -        -      1.7
Afforestation
nurserles                                0.4     0.3     0.2       -       -      1.0
Forests and border planting              1.1     1.3      1.1    0.6      0.5     4.6
Subtotal                              1.5     1.6     1.2     0.6     0.5      5.5
Livestock and Flab Breedlng
Livestoci breedlng                       0.3     0.5    0.2       -        -      1.0
Fish nurseries                           0.8     0.7     0.2      -       -       1.7
Subtotal                              1.2     1.2    0.4       -       -       2.7
Extension and Research
water uanagenent center                  0.2     0.2      -       -        -      0.4
Prefectural research centers             0.7     0.5     0.3      -       -       1.5
Agrotechnical centers/station            5.7     2.1     0.6     0.3      0.1     8.8
Veterinary and AI statione               1.4     1.2     0.3    0.1       0.2     3.2
Forest extension/protection              0.3    0.4       -       -        -      0.7
Subtotal                              8.3     4.3     1.2    0.4      0.4    14.6
Rural Credit
Animal husbandry                         0.3    0.2      0.1      -        -      0.7
Fisheries                                0.5     0.3     0.1    0.1       -       0.9
Processing                               4.0     1.1    0.2       -        -      5.3
Subtotal                              4.8     1.6     0.4     0.2      -       6.9
Traiaing and Technical Assietance
Irrigation trainIng center               0.1     0.1      -       -       -       0.3
Prefectural agricultural schools         0.4     0.4     0.2      -       -       1.0
Manageuet assistance                     1.3     1.0     1.0     0.7      0.7     4.7
Consultants and study tours              0.5     0.3     0.3    0.1       -       1.1
Subtotal'                             2.3     1.8    1.5      0.8      -      7.0
BDse Cost                            63.8    51.0   31.1    28.9   26.8  201.7
Physical contingency                       4.5     4.4     3.6     4.0    - 3.8    20.3
Price contingency                          3.4     7.1    7.6    10.4    12.9    41.5
Total Project Cost                   71.7   62.6   42.3   43.4    43.5   263.5
/a  ID& fiscal year, beginning on July 1 of the preceding calendar year.



- 46 -
Iabl a
CHTNA
TSHIHANG-CHAHU  BEEM   DEVELOPMENT PfBECI
Expected fric Tncreaae La
(Y million and US$ million)
Project year                        1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    Total
Base Cost (Y mln)                  178.6   142.8    87.1    81.0    75.2    564.7
Physical contingency                12.7    12.4    10.0    11.2    10.5       56.8
Annual escalation rate (S)           3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Price contingency multiplier        .030    .061    .093    .126    .159
Expected price increase (Y min)    5.7       9.4      9.0    11.6    13.7      49.4
Total project cost tY mln)         197.0   164.6   106.2   103.8    99.4    670.9
Base Cost (Y mln)                   63.8    51.0    31.1    28.9    26.8    201.7
Phwsical contingency                 4.5     4.4      3.6     4.0      3.8     20.3
Annual escalation rate tS)           5.0     7.5      8.0     8.0      8.0
Price contingency multiplier        .050    .129    .219    .317    .422
Expected price increase (Y mln)    3.4       7.1      7.6    10.4    12.9      41.5
Total project cost (Y mln)          71.7    62.6    42.3    43.4    43.5    263.5
Z_a  IDA fiscal year, beginning on July 1 of preceding calendar year.



- 47 -
ANNEX: 
Table 4
CHINA
PTSHiHANG-CHAnIU ARMA DEVELOEM    PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Sehgdule
Bank group cumulative
disbursement profile
IDA fiscal               Disbursements               for irrigation and
year or       Semestral  Cumulative  Cumulative  drainage projects
semester     --- (US$ million) ---       ()         Yr/Sem La   (%)
1986                                                   Year 1
1st              7.0          7.0.        8               1       0
2nd             15.3         22.3        24               2       2
1987                                                   Year 2
1st             18.9        41.2         45               1.      6
2nd             11.0         52.2        57               2      11
1988                                                   Year 3
lst             16.2        68.4         74               1      17
2nd              3.5         71.9        78               2      25
1989                                                   Year 4
lst              7.4        79.3         86               1      33
2nd              2.4         81.7        89               2      42
1990                                                   Year 5
1st             5.7         87.4         95               1      51
2nd              2.2         89.6         97              2      60
1991                                                   Year 6
1st              2.4        92.0        100               1      69
2      77
Year 7
1      83
2      89
Year 8
1      93
2      97
Year 9
1      99
2     100
La From date of Board approval; 53 projects. E. Asia and Pacific
Region; FY74-83.



-48 -                 MIEZZ 2
(USS million)
-Costs La-             Proposed
Total Foreign       Loan/Credit
Earthworks & on-fam                93.3      0.0             7.3
Expected price increase          17.4      0.0             1.4
Subtotal                      110-7     QZ 
Construction materials             22.0    22.0             22.0
Expected price increase           4.1      4.1             4.1
Subtotal                       21.    2&.]             26.1
Pumps.1 eleetrical zoLiuimak
PLumping stations                 6.9      6.9             6.9
Rural electrification             2.3      2.3             2.3
Expected price increase           1.7      1.7             1.7
Subtotal                       " 10 Q   L.              lo-A
-uuIaen.t. vehcl*le Amnua
Vehicles                          1.5      1.5             1.5
Equipment                         2.2     2.2              2.2
Breeding animals                  0.9      0.9             0.9
Expected price increase           0.9      0.9             0.9
Subtotal                        5. A                     sL4
Construction & installation        40.5    18.1             20.2
Expected price increase           7.6      3.4             3.8
Subtotal                         L      214   2
Chemical fertilizer                10.7    10.7             10.7
Expected price increase           2.0     2.0              2.0
Subtotal                       I2l      12.7            .2.7
Rural credit                        6.9      2.0             2.4
Expected price increase           1.3     0.4              0.5
Subtotal                         2       2               2-
Training & tecabncal assistance     6.4      1.3             1.1
Expected price incresse           1.2      0.3             0.2
Subtotal                        7.6      LA               ,
Land acqulsition                  3.4     0.0              0.0
Tree planting                     5.5     0.0              0.0
Animal and fMs  breeding          1.5     0.0              0.0
Rural roads                       2.9     0.1              0.0
Rural electrification             2.3     0.0              0.0
Seed farms                        1.1      0.0             0.0
Extension & research             11.9      1.1             0.0
Expected price increase           5.3     0.2              0.0
Subtotal                       33.8    1j                fQl
2a4uI    A&2f
&   Coats of project cmponents dlffer fria related totals In
Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2 becase p'-;-urement categories,
hah as construction mterial, equipmet, velhiles and
animals, etc. contain itma inluded in  everal expendIture
categories.



CHINA
PISHIHANO-CHAOHU AREA DIVELOPHENT PROJECT
ishihaniZ Irrigation Area Cooponent
Cost Estimates Uarthworke and On-Farm Work.
Quantitieu                                         Av, unit
price            Amount
Pihe        Waxl       Wadong      Shihe       Jitong      Shulu        Total        (Yuan)    Y'000 a  US$'00U
Central and Main Canal
Exeavation                  eu c       271,000    370,000  1,691,000    570,000  2;160,000         44,000   5,106,000          4.2       21,387    7,638
Slope stabilization         no.              8           6           -           -           -           -           14     70,000          986       352
Embankment protection       sq a    1,486,000            -           -    164,300            -     80,000   1,730,300          105      18,896    6,748
Subuain. Branch and                                                                                                                                               '
Subbranch Canal
excavation                  cu m    1,582,000  1,635,000  3,045,600    187,500  2,710,000  1,440,000  10,600,100                  1      10,980    3,921
Slope etabill.atton         no.              -          40           -           -           -           -           40     40,000        1,600       571
Lateral and Sublateral
Bxcavation                  cu .    1,850,000    374,000  1,230,000  1,600,000  1,190,000  1,220,000   7,464,000               0.5        3,732    1,333
On-Farm Work.
Flat r.";r                  ha           9,480           -           -           -           -           -        9,480          93          882      315
MDderste high land          ha          12,640      15,890      19,420       2,170      15,830      18,860      84,810          117        9,923    3,544
High land                   ha          38,215      22,310      71,320       8,300      49,040      35,810      224,995         159       35,774   12,777
Spot levelling and          ha                                                                                   76,000          29       2,176       777
field drainage
Total                                                                                                                                106.336   37.977
/a Budgeted figure.; oot equal to product of quantity end unit price which have been rounded for each item,



-                                 ANNEX 2
Table 6B
CHINA
PISHfIANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chaohu Flood Control Component
Cost Estimate: Earthworks and On-Farm Works
Unit
price   Quantity        Amount
Item                        Unit   (Yuan)    ('000)    Y'000    US$'000
Niudunhe Flood Diversion Channel
Channel excavation               cu m    2.44      17,150    41,846    14,945
Embankment revetment             cu i       46       14.7       676       241
Fenghuangjing Pumping Station
Wnlet/outlet channel excavation  cu m    2.35       3,180     7,473     2,669
Pumphouse foundation excavation  cu m     4.3         780     3,354     1,198
Drainage channel excavation      cu m     2.1         410       869       310
Slope revetment                  cu i    24.7          50     1,235       441
Shendanhe Pumping Station
Inlet/outlet channel excavation  cu m    2.28       2,360     5,390     1,925
Pumphouse foundation excavation  cu m     4.3         550     2,365       845
Slope revetment                  cu i    20.6          25       515       184
Xihe Canalization
Channel excavation               cu n    2.24      16,400    36,736    13,120
On-Farm Works
Field levelling                  ha      1,000         20    20,000     7,143
Field drainage                   ha        50           7       350       125
Total                                                    120,803    43,145



AJNCX 2
- 5 1 -                                           Table 7A
CgDNA
PISUIIANG-CHAOHU ARhE DEVELOPMENT PRoJECT
Pishhant Trrigation Area Component
Cost EstLmate: Structures
Av. unit
Quantities                         price        Amount
Item                    Unt  Pit b    WaUxi Wadong  Shihe  Jidong   Sbulu   Total  (Y'000)  Y'000 /b US$ '000
Central and Main Canal
Tractor bridge         no.       4     11     13       6     24         -      58      78     4,534    1,619
Pedestrian bridge      no.       4     14     47       2     32        26     125      12      1,483      530
Pumping station /a     no.       7      -     57       -     30         -      94    32.7     3,071    1,097
Irrigation structure
medium               no.      -       -      -       I      -         -       1  618.4         618      221
smal                 no.     37    102    760       44     48        42   1.033      11    11,144    3.980
Offtake gate           no.      -       -     89       -    192       184     465     2.7      1.257      448
Drainage structure
mediumc              no.       2      5      -       2      -         -       9     250      2,242      801
small                no.     50       -     17       9     30        22     128      78    10,014    3.576
Subwain. Branch and
Subbranch Canal
Tractor bridge         no.      -       -      -       2      11        -      13    12.3        160       57
Pedestrian bridge      no.    376    477    726       47    748       390   2,764       4    11,056    3,949
Pumping station /a     no.      -      34     55     386      -         -     475     1.5        713      254
Irrigation structure
Small                no.    181  1,885    368       15    320    1,129   3,898      1.5     6,050    2,161
Offtake gate           no.    723      -  1,606        -  1.369         -   3,698     0.5      1,849      660
DraLnage structure
Small                no.      9       -     20      16      19       26      90       8        715      225
Lateral and Sublateral
PedestrLan brLdge      no.  1,437  1.250  2,331      494  2,174    2,438  10,124      0.5      5.062    1.808
IrrigatLon structure
Swell                no.    593  1.365    823   3,103  1,342    3.159  10,385       0.3     3,116    1.113
Offtake gate           no.  3,904  7,045  7,835        -  4,114   11,341  34,239      0.1     3,424    1.223
Dra.nage structure
Small                no.      -       -      -       -     70         -      70        1        70       25
Service Reservoirs
Improvement
MedLum-size            no.      -       1      5        1      3        8      18     730    13,169    4.703
Small-size             no.     55      56    134      34    233         -     512      32    16,435    5.870
Total                                                                                    96,182   34,351
/a  Mainly for repair and replacement .orks.
7F7 Budgeted figures; not equal to product of quantities and unit prices vhlch have been rounded for each
Ltem.



52-                              ANMEX 2
Table 7B
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chaohu Flood Control Component
Cost Estimate: Structures
Unit
price   Quantity         Amount
Description                          Unit   (Y'000)   ('000)    Y'000   US$'000
Niudunhe Flood Diversion Channel
Control gate                        no.    2,388        1        2,388      853
Lock gate                           no.    2,089        1        2,089      746
Traffic bridge                      no.       637       1          637      227
Tractor bridge                      no.       436       6        2,618      935
Branch river control gate           no.       630       5        3,150    1,125
Branch river drainage structures   -          sum       -        4,150    1,482
Modification works to:
Drainage structures               no.      12.1     129        1,560      557
Pumping stations                  no.      36.3      68        2,A-72     883
Subtotal                                                    19,064    6,808
Fenghuangjing Pumping Station
Main pumphouse                      no.   13,864        1       13,864    4,951
Drainage control gates              no.       358       4        1,431      511
Bridges                             no.       208       2          416       149
Transformer substaton               no.       200       1          200       71
Subtotal                                                    15,911    5,682
Shendanhe Pumping Station
Main pumphouse                      no.    7,289        1        7,289    2,603
Drainage control gates              no.       233       3          700      250
Bridges                             no.       165       2          330      118
Transformer substation              no.       110       1          110       39
Subtotal                                                     8,429    3,010
Xihe Canalization
Mbdification works to:
Drainage structures               -         sum       -        1,620      579
Pumping stations                  -         sum       -        2,520      900
Subtotal                                                     4,140    1,479
Total                                                      47,544   16,979



- 53 -                            ANNEX 2
Table 8
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chaohu Flood Control Component
Cost Estimate: Pumping and Electrical Equipient
Unit
price                   Amount
Description                            Unit  (Y'000)  Quantity  Y'000   US$'000
Fenghuangjing Pumping Station
Pump/motor (4 no.13,000 kW each)/a  sets  2,297.5       4       9,190   3,282
Transmission lines                   -          sum     -       2,060      736
Transformer - 31,500 KVA             no.      1,240     1        1,240     443
Subtotal                                                    12,490   4,461
Shendanhe Pumping Station
Pump/motor (5 no.J1,600 kW each)    sets    1,072       5       5,360   1,914
Transmission lines                   -          Sum     -          900     321
Transformer - 15,000 KVA             no.        590     1          590     211
Subtotal                                                     6,850   2,446
Total                                                       19,340   6,907
/a Excluding two sets purchased prior to the project.



ANNEX 2
54                              Table 9
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate: Rural Roads
Length        Unit price                 Amount
County                 (km)         (Y'000)/a          Y'0O0          US$'000
pishihn
Liuan                    117
Shouxian                  64
_insai                    12
Hhoqiu                    42
Shucheng                  42
Lujiang                   18
Changfeng                 77
Feixi                    178
Subtotal              550             18.5            10,200          3,643
Dock (3 nos.)                              50                150            53
Bridge (1 nos.)                           150                150            54
Chaohu
Wuwei                     44
CQaoxian                  19
Hanshan                   27
Heshan                    45
Subtotal              135              31              4,200          1,500
Bridges                                                      800           286
Total                                                 15,500          5,536
/a Including ancillary structures.



- 55                                      TblANNEX 2
-    -                        ~~~~~~~~Tabl;-TO
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CBAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate: Rural Electrification
Trantmission              Transmission
lines 35-53 kV         lines 10 kV & below
Unit                       Unit
Length   price   Amount   Length   price   Amount        Total amount
County                  (km)   (Y'000)  (Y'000)   (km)   (Y'000)  (Y'000)   Y'000   US$'000
Pishihang
Liuan                   -                         41
Shouxian               38                          -
Jinsai                  -                         82
Hu.oqiu                22                         34
Huoshan                18                           -
Shucheng                -                         98
Lujiang                 -                        103
Changfeng              25                         20
Feixi                 140                          -
Subtotal          243      23.8     5,800    378       4.8      1,800    7,600    2,714
Chaohu
Wuwei                   -                        101
Cbaoxian                -                         60
Hanshan                 -                         42
Heshan                                            98
Subtotal             -       -           -    301      5.6      1,700    1,700       607
Unit
Quantity   price   Amount
(number) (Y'000) (Y'000)
Transformers                                      300          5     1,500   1,500.0       536
Substations                                         7        200     1,400   1,400.0      500
Minihydro station                                    1       800       800      800.0     286
Total                                                                   13,000.0   4,643



- 56 -                                 ANNM  2
Table 11
PITHHU AMA DEDP PRWET
Cs aiimatei                 Mnntaltletin  Ba:    La
Require-
Rate      ment      Price     Total mount
Component                          Unit  Amount Ct/unit) tt or .3       (Y/Ot) Y million USS million
Costue ion  Sted      tons
Pishlhang Irrigation                                     23,000      900      20.7         7.4
Chachu Flood Control                                      7,000      900      6.3          2.3
oada, Bids A Culver
Bridges                           m      905        3     2,715       900      2.4         O.9
Culverts                        no.    1,127        5     5,635       900      5.1         1.8
Rural Electrification &            km      922     0.25       233       900      0.2         0.1
Seed Fa3nm Lf                   sq. m   25,500     0.02       510       900      0.5         0.2
Afforestation (Nurseries) L     sq. m    7,000     0.02       140       900     0.1          La
Livestock and Fish Breeding Lf  sq. m   21,250     0.02        425      900      0.4         0.1
Extension, Research,
Training, and Hanagement La    sq. m  146,800     0.02     2,936       900      2.6         0.9
Subtotal                                               42.594               38.1        13.7
rkmn=                             tons
Pihihang Irrigation                                      80,000       110     8.8          3.1
Chadhu Flood Control                                     43,000       110     4.7          1.7
Subtotal                                             1JZR,000               13.R         4.B.
Ticbher                              m3
Pishihang Irrigation                                     10,000      480       4.8         1.7
Chawhu Flood Control                                     10,000      480       4.8         1.7
Subtotal                                               20,003 9.6                        3.4
I 1 Corntruction Matriala                                                         61is       A2MQ
La   Including only amounts procured through ICB. Additional timber and cement for structures
constructed in the agricultural component will be locally financed and procured under
local procedures.
Lb   For use in reinforced concrete poles, transformer foundations, substations and minihydro-
power station.
La  For use in structures such as offices, dormitories, laboratories, warehouses, and hothouses.
-d, Under US$100,000.



ANNEX 2
- 57 -                                Table 12
CHINA
PISUIHUNG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate: Vehicles and Equipment
Pishihang     Chaohu flood             Unit
irrigation       control               price   Amount
Description                             AWRB   AAAFB   AWRB   AAAFB   Total   -- (US$'000) -
Vehicles/Machinery
Mini bus                               I       -       -       1        2        9        18
Field utility vehicles                20      18     10       30      78         9      702
Pickups, 1.5-2 tons                   13       -      13       -      26         8      208
Trucks, 5-8 tons                      10      14      10       -      34        15      510
Tractor, agricultural                  -      21      -        -      21         4        84
Subtotal                                                                           1,522
Office Equipment
Copying machine                        2       -      2        5       9         3       27
Microcomputers                        21      14      11      10      56         7      392
Video recorder                         1       4       1       5       11        5       55
F Facsimile                              -       14      -        5      19         4       76
Canera                                 1       -       1       5       7         1         7
Subtotal                                                                             557
laboratory and Training Equipment
Irrigation experiment station                                                           180
Soil analytical laboratory                                                              100
TechnicaL training center (irrig.)                                                       50
Veterinary services                                                                     450
Agricultural laboratories                                                               259
Subtotal                                                                           1,039
System Operation Equipment
Irrigation system                                                                       370
Flood control system-                                                                   246
Subtotal                                                                             616
Total                                                                              3,734



ANNEX 2
- 58 -                                               Table 13
CHINA
PISIRUANG-CHAOEU ARA DEVELOPHEET PROJECT
Coat latltmat and Pbaaimg of Techatcal Assistance
Total     Total    Pbacing of man-uonth.
man-     cost        gt,1:jp1    r                     Technical subject and
Deacriptlon                    month   (US'000)  1986 l7I198  19                         proposed countries
A. Study Tours
1. Water  easources             6        39        6     -     -     -    Aerial mapplng technique for on-farm worka
Bureau Staff                                                            planning and deoign, Thalland.
6        39       -      6     -     -    Water management and irrigation structures,
USA.
6        39       -      6     -     -    System operation and management for irriga-
tion & flood control. Japan and USA.
2. Agricultural staff           8         52       -     4     4      -    Ceneral crops production and management,
(including live-                                                        Japan and PhilLppines.
stock & fisheries)
8        52       -      4     4     -    Agronoq and *oil study. U.S. (California).
8        52       -     4      4     -    Livestock and fisherier production and man-
agment.  Netherlandso  Denmark, Australia.
3. Combined group from         20        120       -     8     8      4    Project Implementation, monitorilng and
PHO, WRl, Agricul-                                                      evaluation, countries to be decided.
ture Bureau. asbul
Provinclal and Pre-
fectural govern ment
Subtotal                    62       4C'        6    32    20     4
B. Overseea Training lb
1. Water lesources             20        60        -    10    10     -    10 man-montha for systeo operation and
Bureau staff                                                            management and in irrigation and flood
control, USA; 10 man-months for vater
resources planning and management, USA.
2. Agricultural Bureau         21         63       -    10    11      -    11  an_-months for crops production and man-
staff                                                                   ag*met. coil and agronomy; 10 man-monthe for
Ilvestock production and management.
Subtotal                    41        123       -    20    21     -
C. Conoulting Services  c
1. Aerial lApping Spe-          4         51       2     2     -      -
cialist
2. Irrigatlon/flood Control
Operation Systm Study:
a. Irrigntlon/drainage
Engineer                     a        102       -     3      3     2
b. Hydrologist                  4         51       - -  3       1    -
c. Sytm analyst                12        153       -     3      6     3
d. Hardware/eoftware
specLalist                   4         51       -     -     2      2
3. Tralning and TAG            13        165       -     4     4    IS
Subtotal                    45        573       2    15    16    12
Summary
Study tours                    62        403       6    32    20      4
Overseas training              41        123       -    20    21      -
Consulting services            45        573       2    15    16    12
Total                      148      1099        8    67    56    16
Aw Arage coet US$6.500 per _mnm-outb.
7nT Average coat US$3,000 per mu-month.
7_ Average coet US$12,750 per *mn-mooth.



ANNEX 3
- 59 -
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pishihang Water Supply and Demand
1.        Initial estimates reviewed with AWRB show that there will be no
water constraint at least for the project area. Therefore for the purposes of
assessing water supply and demand, a simplified procedure has been adopted,
based on average monthly rainfall and annual reservoir inflows. Crop
requirements were estimated on a monthly basis, and were derived from
experimental measurements of evapo-transpiration and crop factors specific to
each crop at different growth stages. Calculations were made of irrigat:on
supply and demand for (a) each main irrigation area (Pihe, Shihe, and
Hangbuhe), based on present cropping patterns and an estimated 65Z eff..Aency
at full completion of ancillary works; (b) the area benefiting from project
works alone (319,000 ha), comparing crop irrigation requirements at present
with those at full development, accounting for expected changes in cropping
patterns and an improvement in irrigation efficiency from 50X to 65Z. The
details of calculations in (a) are in the Project Files; the derived water
supply and demand for the entire Pishihang system is as follows:
Pihe     Shihe    Hangbuhe      Total
Irrigation area (hi)                    410,700   182,000       91,300    684,000
Annual supply (N m )                       3,376     1,350         924       5,650
Annual demand (M m3)                       2,276     1,185         882      4,343
Surplus       (M m3)                       1,100       265          42      1,307
2.        The above calculations indicate that there would be a surplus of
annual supply over annual irrigation demand for each irrigation area and for
the entire 684,000 ha system under present cropping patterns. It remains to
be determined that changes in irrigation demands in the project area of
319,000 ha would not create shortages. The crop areas at present and expected
at full development in the area benefiting from Pishihang civil works are
shown in Annex 5, Table 1. At present, cropping patterns in the project area
imply an irrigation requirement of 4.7 billion m3 (see Project Files). With
project, an increase in irrigation efficiency from 502 to 65% and a reduction
in paddy field area (more precisely, a reduced area cultivated in rice,
combined with increased doubl -croppi ng of rice) would reduce irrigation
requirements to 3.0 billion m (Table 1).
3.        Although there would be no water constraint under average rainfall
conditions in dry years, higher seasonal irrigation requiremencs would require
careful management of water distribution. Therefore there is a need to look
at supply and demand for water in more detail, and to devise appropriate
operating rules to respond to varying conditions. The project would provide
technical assistance in carrying out further studies of water supply and
demand in the Pishihang irrigation area and determining optimal operating
rules for the distribution system (Annex 7).



CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Water Requirement With Project
(319,000 ha)
Item                          Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Total
Dfcropping rice - let crop (17%)
Nurseries & field preparation - mm                                   30  120                               150
Crop consumptive use - mm                                                 102  254  306                    662
Percolation - mm                                                           21   30   31                     82
Effective rainfall - mm                                              10   56   27   89                     182
Crop irrigation requirement - mm                                     20  187  257  248                     712            l
Area irrigated                                                       --- 53,900 ha --                                    o
Irrigation volume - tm3                                              11  101  139  134                     384
Rice-single crop: Midterm (33%)
Nurseries & field preparation - mm                                         30  130                         160
Crop consumptive use - mm                                                      167  305  194               666
Percolation - mm                                                                20   31   31                82
Effective rainfall - mm                                                     8   45   58   76               187
Crop irrigation requirement - mm                                           22  272  278  149               721
Area irrigated          3                                            ---- 106,200 ha --
Irrigation volume - Mm                                                     23  288  295  158               764
Rice-Single crop: Late (17x)
Nurseries & field preparation - mm                                         25  150                         175
Crop consumptive use - mm                                                       70  274  192  142   52   730
Percolation - mm                                                                1n   31   31   30   20   122
Effective rainfall - mm                                                     5   64   58   80   64   46   317            
Crop irrigation requirement - mm                                           20  166  247  143  1OR   26   710          i- 
Area irrigated                                                            ------- 53,000 ha
Irrigation volume - Mm3                                                    11   R8  131   76   57   14   376



Item                           Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  Mav  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Total
D/cropping Rice - 2nd Crop (21%)
Nurseries & field preparation - mm                                                     35   45                 Rn
Crop consumptive use - mm                                                                   159  135   RR    382
Percolation - mm                                                                             31   30   31      92
Effective rainfall - mm                                                                15   80   55   4n    190
Crop irrigation requirement - mm                                                       20  155  110   79    364
Area irrigated        3                                                                     -  fi00 ha
Irrigation volume Mm3                                                                  13  104   73   53    143
Summer crop: Soybean,cotton, Corn, etc. (29%)
Crop consumptive use - mm /a                                                      40  140  140   3n    0    350
Effective rainfall - mm                                                           40  118   88   30    0    276
Crop irrigation requirement -mm                                                    0   22   52    0    0       74
Area irrigated - ha                                                                      93,000 ha --                    H
Irrigation volume - Mm3                                                            0   20   4R           n 0   69
Winter crop: Wheat, Rapeseed (66%)
Crop consumptive use - mm /b               30   30   2n   20   40  ll   150   2n                              420
Effective rainfall - mm                    30   20   20   20   40   65   75   20                              290
Crop irrigation requirement - mm           60   1n    n    0    0   45   75    0    0    0    0    n    190
Area irriZated - ha   3                    ------------ 211,200 ha -------------
Irrigation volume - M4m                   127   21    0    0    0   95  158    n    0    0    0    0    401
Total Crop Irrigation Vol. - Mm3          127   21    0    0    0  106  293  515  593  386  131   67  2,237
Gross demand ( 65% Irrig. Eff. - Mm3  169   28    0    0    n  141  391  686  791  514  174   89  2,9R3
Average rainfall - mm (1956-70)            46   29   30   48   71   94  105  129  178  126   83   51    990
Ioo 2 
/a  Soybeans used as representative                                                                                      ' - w
/b Wheat used as representative



-62-                            ANNEX 4
Page 1
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chaohu Flood Control
1.        Flooding in the Chaohu basin occurs as a result of the coincidence
of two events: (a) heavy runoff into Lake Chao during a short period of time
causes the water level in the lake to exceed a regulated level of +12.0 m; (b)
the Chansjiang reaches high stage at a level approaching +12.0 m. As these
events have a comon cause in a pattern of concentrated, heavy rainfall
throughout central China, they frequently occur in combination, historically
leading to floods approximately once every three years. In recent years, the
practice of deliberately breaching dikes to allow selected poldered areas to
absorb excess flood runoff has reduced the typical flood event to a cultivated
area of about 5,000-9,000 ha, but more serious events have occurred three
times in thirty years, viz. 1954, 1969, and 1983, damaging to varying extents
236,000, 153,000 and 100,000 ha respectively (diked areas flooded to a depth
averaging 3.5 m were 104,000, 46,700, and 26,700 ha respectively).
2.        Based on historical records of rainfall volume in the Chaohu
watershed area and high stage levels on the Changjiang, AWRB estimates the
theoretical frequency of the 1954, 1969 and 1983 floods to be 1 in 50, 1 in 30
and 1 in 20-30 years respectively, although other methods of calculation
suggest these may be underestimates of actual frequency. AiRB's standard for
design of the Chaohu flood control system was based on elimination of flooding
with up to 1 in 20 year frequency. All alternative schemes have been
evaluated relative to Chaohu runoff and Changjiang high stage levels
experienced during the 1954, 1969 and 1983 floods as well as estimated
parameters for a 1 in 20 years flood; AWRB's benefit calculations have been
based on reductions in average annual flooding resulting from amelioration of
these severe floods, ignoring substantial additional benefits resulting from
elimination of more frequent but less severe events.
3.        In selecting an optimum combination of flood control works, AWRB
initially compared eight alternatives, which were various combinations of:
(a) construction of the Niudunhe Diversion Channel;
(b) construction of Fenghuangjing Pumping Station;
(c) construction of Shendanhe Pumping Station;
(d) canalization of the Xi River;
(e) canalization of Yuqi River.
Their studies (see Project Files) demonstrated that a combination of all of
these works would be required to meet the 1 in 20 year standard of flood
control. A cost-benefit analysis of each alternative was carried out,
evaluating the social benefits of flood control due to reduced private and
public losses at rates based on surveys of selected areas flooded during the



ANNEX 4
-63 -                            Page 2
1983 floods. Considering also additional benefits due to pumping of
irrigation water from the Changjiang in dry years and drainage of areas
surrounding the pumping stations, as well as the operation and maintenance
costs of each component of the civil works, and using a discount rate of 10%,
AWRB found that the combined proposal gave the highest positive net present
value and a satisfactory benefiticost ratio.
4.        However, the Appraisal Mission, in comparing the AWRB's final
proposal with the next-best alternative, noted that the difference in net
benefits was small. In response, AWRB revised its proposal, reducing the
proposed bed-width of the Xi River, dropping the canalization of the Yuqi
River and thereby greatly reducing earthwork volume and project costs. AWRB's
analysis demonstrated that the revised proposal, while reducing flood
protection slightly below the theoretical 1 in 20 standard, had a
substantially higher rate of return, and that the difference between the
revised proposal and the next best alternative offered a rate of return on
incremental investment costs well in excess of 12%. Consequently, Mission and
AWRB agreed on a project scope based on the revised proposal (project works b-
e listed above). The expected flood amelioration with and without project,
based on historical flood events, is shown in Table 1 and the flood control
works are shown on IBRD Kap 18750.



ANNEX 4
- 64 -                             Page 3
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expected Flood Amelioration With Project
Year  Total   Regulated   Discharged  Excess  Mitigation    Cultivated Area Flooded
Flood   by Lake &     into       Flood   by Proposed  Historical  With    Amelio-
Inflow   Polders    Yangtze R.  Volume      Works                 project  ration
-- ~~~~(M mi) -                                        -       -----(ha)   - --
1954   9,080     3,530        1,650     3,900      2,030       104,000   41,500   62,500
1956     N/A       N/A          N/A       N/A        N/A         6,700        0     6,700
1962     N/A       N/A          K/A       N/A       N/A          8,700        0     8,700
1964     N/A       N/A          N/A       N/A        N/A         8,000        0     8,000
1969   5,610     3,500        1,170       940        500        46,700    9,800   36,900
1975     N/A       N/A          N/A       N/A        N/A         8,000        0     8,000
1980     N/A       N/A          N/A       N/A        N/A        13,300        0    13,000
1982     N/A       N/A          N/A       N/A        N/A         6,700        0     6,700
1983   5,350     3,590          860       900        890        26,700       500   26,200
1984     N/A       N,A          N/A       N/A       N/A          5,000        0     5,000



CHINA
PISHIHAN(-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Areas and Yields
Present                                At full development
Pishihang  Chaohu   Support    Total          Pishihang  Chaohu   Support    Total
Benefit areas:                   irriga-   irriga-  services  project           irriga-   irriga-  services  project
tion       tion       only     area           tion       tion       only      area
Types of Benefit
major irrigation
increase                                                                       +
Minor irrigation
increase, drainage                                                                        +
Support services,
infrastructure                                                                 +          +         +
Cultivated area ('000 ha)         319.0      220,0    379.0        918.0        319.0      220,0    379.0        918.0
Crop Area ('000 ha)               542.6      370.9    643.8    1 557.3           5R4.1      422.7    699.0    15705.8
Paddy rice                                  2T4,3  ZZ1,  344.1   KW973* 0      77        Z5697    34#7         f85,2
Wheat                            96.8       49.4    110.6        256,8         97.8        33.7    107.6       239.2
Maize                             6.3        0.9       6.6        13.8         21.6         3.7     22.9        48.2
Tubers                           17.3        5.2      1R.8        41.3          18.5        4.7      19.9       43,0
Other grains                     15.9       10.9      18.9        45.7         25.7        18.2     30.6        74.5
Soybean                          13.5        4,0      14.7        32.2         20.6        6.0      22.4        4R.9
Qilseeds                         82.6       55,7      97.8       236.1         R7.7       74.1    107.7        269.5
Cotton (ginned)                  18.6       22.5      24.5        65.5         17.8       23.9      24.1        65.8
Jute, hemp                        6.5        1.2       6.8        14.5          14.5        1.8     15.1        31.4
Crop Yields (t/ha)
Paddy rice   44.0                            4,0       4.0       * 4.0           5.4       4.7       4.6         4.9
Wheat                             1.9        1.9       1.9          1.9          2.4        2.4       2.4         2.4
Maize                             1.8        1.R       1.8         1.8           2.7        2.7       2.6         2.7
Tubers                            2,3        2.3       2.3         2.3           2.6       2.6       2.6          2.6
Other grains                      1.4        1.4       1.4         1.4           2.5        2.5       2.5         2.5
Soybean                           1.3        1.3       1.3         1,3           1.7       1.7       1.6          1.6
Oilseeds                          1.2        1,2       1,2         1.2           1.3        1.3       1.3         1.3  
Cotton (ginned)                   0.3        0.3       0.3         0.3          0.6        0.6       0.5         0.6
Jute, hemp                        1.9        1.9       1.9         1.9           2,2        2,2       2,2         2.2



ANNEX 5
- 66 -                             Table 2
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production of Livestock, Aquaculture and Forestry
At present         At full development
Year-end     Annual     Year-end      Annual
Units     stock      production    stock      production
Average per Farm
Cattle, buffalo       nos,         0.22       0.01          0.22       0.02
Pigs                  nos.         0.95       0.59          1.33        1.33
Chickens              nos.         3.23       1.23          6.27       2.38
Ducks                 nos.         3.56        3.33         8.79       16.90
Eggs                   kg             -       8.10             -       19.86
s.&h ponds             ha          0.06          -          0.06          -
Fish                   ki             -       12.36         0.52      44.52
Timber                 m           3.47       0.12          3.52       0.14
Project Area Total
Cattle, buffalo        '000       401.8       12.6         439.6       30.8
Pigs                   mln          1.7         1.1          2.7        2.7
Chickens               mln          5.9        2.3          12.8        4.9
Ducks                  mln          6.5         6.1         17.9       34.5
Eggs                  '000 t          -       14.9             -       40.5
Fish ponds           '000 ha      110.3          -         128.5          -
Fish                  '000 t%         -       22.7             -       90.8
Timber               '000 m    6,381.3       223.3       7,170.3      270.6



- 67 -
ANEK 5
Table 3
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm-gate Prices for Major Products and Inputa /a
Rice  Wheat  Corn  Soy-       Oil-       Cotton   Urea  TSP  Potash
/b     /c    /d   bean /e  seeds /f  (lnit)/L   /h   /i        Li
Net trade status                                X      m     M      X          X           M      N      K     H
1984 Prices
Import price (S)                              -   142   138    282           -          -    171   132    84
Ocean freight (5) /k                          -    46    46      25          -           -     46    46    46
CIF or FOB Shangha  C S)                    255   188   184    257         636       1,790    217   178   130
CIF or FOB Shanghai (Y)                     714   526   515    720       1,781      5,012    608   498   364
Port charges & distributor's margin /1    -89    72    71    -90          -185        476      80    70    58
Transport:  Port-wholesalers /n              -5      5     5     -5         -5           5      3      3     3
Transport:  Farm-wholesalers 7[             -12   -12   -12    -12         -12        -12      15    15    15
Price ex-mill                               608   592   580    613       1,579       5,481    705   586   440
Milling adjustment /o                      0.70      -     -      -       0.35           -      -     -      -
Milling cost less by-product value          -20      -     -      -         -6        -99       -     -      -
Equals econoaic price (Y)                   405   592   580    613         546      5,382    705   586   440
Flnancial prices (Y)                        311   340   360    640         866      3,407    560   552   N/A
1990 Prices (1984 Constant $) 
Import price (S)                              -   122   110    241           -           -    243   165    97
Ocean freight (5) /k                          -    46    46      25          -           -     36    36    36
CIF or FOB Shanghail ()                     329   165   156    216         473       1,680    279   201   133
CIF or FOB Shanghai (Y)                     921   470   437    605       1,324      4,704    781   563   372
Port charges & distributor's margin /1   -108    67    64    -79          -144        448      95    76    59
Transport:  Port-wholesalers 1m               5      5     5      5          5           5      3      3     3
Transport:  Farm-wholesalers 7j7            -12   -12   -12    -12         -12        -12      15    15    15
Price ex-mill                               806   531   494    518       1,173       5,145    895   656   449
Milling adjustment /o                      0.70      -     -      -       0.35           -      -     -      -
Milling cost less by-product value          -20      -     -      -         -6        -99       -     -      -
Equals economic price (Y)                   544   531   494    518         405       5,046    B95   656   449
Financial prices (Y)                        311   340   360    640         866      3,407    560   552   377
/a  World Bank projections for 1984 and 1990 in 1984 constant values (EPD, "Half Yearly Revision of Commo-
dity Price Forecasts and Quarterly Review of Commodity Markets," Internal Memorandum, December 1984,
pp. 4 and 7.
/b Thai 5Z broken, FOB Bangkok; historically Chinese FOB rice export prices have been at least as high.
T_ US No. I Soft Red Winter, FOB Gulf. From EPD, "Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities," Septem-
ber 1984, v. 2, p. 211; updated based on changes in project prices of Canadian wheat (see note a).
/d US No. 2 Yellow, FOB Gulf.
T   US, CIF Rotterdau.  Prices received for Chinese exports have been comparable.
7f Developing countries' export unit value for soybean oil, adjusted by a factor of 0.94 to approximate the
average Chinese FOB export price received for a mix of rapeseed, cottonseed, peanut, and sesame oil
(from EPD, Prlce Prospects, p. 279); updated based on orojections for Dutch soybean oil (see note a).
jL. Middling (1-3/32"), CIF N. Europe.
/h Bagged, FOB NW Europe, 46% N.
7- Triple superphosphate, bulk, FOB US Gulf. Financial price is for local superphosphate (15Z P205).
adjusted to nutrient equivalence with TSP (46Z P205).
LI  Potassium chloride (60% K20), bulk, FOB Vancouver.  Potassium fertilizers are not widely used at pres-
ent, and will be imported with project and distributed, by assumption, at the economic price.
/k Estimated freight rate of bulk comnodities, Gulf-China ports of US$46 and China-Japan of US$25.
71? Port charges of Y 25/t and 92 distributor's maragin.
7; Average rail freight charge from nearest port (Shanghai or Lienyungang) to consuming area (assumed to be
northern Anhui); rail freight coversLon coefficient of 0.93.
In Assuming 50 km between collection/distribution polnt and rail depot and 100 km rail freight to northern
Anhui; and truck frelght rates of Y 0.20/t-km for agricultural products, Y 0.28lt-ka for inputs; conver-
sion factors of 0.93 for rall freight and 0.79 for road transport.
/o Adjustments from milled rlce to paddy equivalent (70Z); from edible oil to rapeseed equivalent (35Z).



ANNEX 5
-68 -                              Table 4
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Conversion Factors for Inputs /a
Conversion factor
Electricity lb                                                        0.94
Diesel fuel                                                           1.44
Rail transport                                                        0.93
Road transport                                                        0.79
Construction Ic                                                       1.37
Organic manure /d                                                     0.50
Mixed concentrate feed /e                                             1.20
Consumption conversion factor /f                                      1.62
Farm labor Ig                                                         0.81
Timber /h                                                             1.61
/a  Based on an update of estimated conversion rates in S. Ichishima and A.
Wood, Economic Analysis of Aluminum Milling in Shanghai (May 1982). The
update used an exchange rate of Y 2.8/US$1.00, 1984 local or national
prices, and international price projections for 1984 in current prices
from EPD, "Half-Yearly Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts and Quarterly
Review of Commodity Markets," Internal Memorandum, December 1984, p. 4 and
7; or Chinese import or export prices for 1983 from State Statistical
Bureau, 1984 Statistical Yearbook, pp. 388-94, adjusted to 1984 using the
most appropriate index from EPD Forecasts; and coal and energy prices, see
note b.
/b  Economic price based on long-run marginal cost of thermal power at retail
level, from AEPEN, Staff Appraisal Report: China, Second Power Project,
Annex 19, draft, January 22, 1985.
/c  Based on 1984 conversion rates for unskilled labor, steel, timber, cement,
machinery, and nontraded goods or services of 1.62, 1.20, 1.32, 1.28,
1.37, and 1.62 respectively (see note a).
/d  Assumes that market value presently determined by rationed supply of
chemical phosphate and potash, and would decline sharply if imports of
chemical products were freely available.
/e  For 1990; average for 70:30 mix of maize and soybean.
/f  Weighted average of ratios of projected 1990 economic to financial prices
for rice, wheat, other grains, and vegetable oils, the weights based on
1983 Anhui consumption per capita.
/g  Fifty percent (of market wage), times consumption conversion factor.
/h  Based on projected 2000 prices.



CHINA
PISHIIRAIIC-CHAO9  AREA OKVSLOFHF.   FIUEJCT
Crop Budnct at Pull DeveloPe_nt La
Unit        stem           Wheat           mazse         Tuber       Oth:r ain         Soybein        till1eed        Cotetn           5eggf
Unit    ptle.  AAt.   Value  AuV. Value  A u.  Value  At.  Vlue  Aug.   Valu   Lt.  Value  Aut.   Value  A                         -. Valus  At.   VSluO
lithout Protec
Meld                        t                4.0             1.9           I.A           2.3              1.4           1.1              1.2            n.l             I.9
Prcet                                                311            340             360          2cn             241           640              A66           1,407            450
PToduct value              *                       1,244            646             646          46G             un             412           1.03q          I2,m0              Ass
By-product value           *                         116             79              42           61              S9             44              46             144             89
Total Value            1                       1.160           725             690           S2S            lqq            576            1.055S        t1214              944
Input Coat.
Seeds                    km                IAO      79    120    66    AR         25 1I0        in       94    36    6n       6n        6       9      6n      36      II     96
Fertilizer                                         141           124              9i            9tl           fil             6               116             201            III
of                  h1         1.2      76       3     66    Al    so0        61   41      1n       24    29    17        21       66      Al     7A      95      7J      95
r                   btA        1.1     16      19      16    19    16         19   20      24        a    in    20        24       20     24      20      24      20      24
ithk                          0.6        4       1      1      I      0        0     a      n        o      n      n0      n        I       I      n       o       0       0
0riOanic             t       20.0        1     24        I    24      I       IN    1      24         1    24      1      2b        7      1n       4     54       2      30
Agle.. chemicsla                                    3h             12             14             0              19            12               12              14              12
hachinery                                           is              6              6             A                             b 6              A              12              6
Draft oniaclm                                       1              24             24            24              16            im               24              24              24
IrriAstion              m      0.0025  *500         It    9X0      2   00          I     0 n           2nn       I   SW0       I   1.200        1 1             I 3 1,600      4
Other Lb                                            38             4n              16           m               26            26               14              67             %a
Subtotal                                         362           279             209          22n             151            292              219            429             349
hot Value                                       4e7            45n             461           3ns            21             654              666 Mts                         9 5
lAboT required          mn-day.                      407            124             3no          1R              106            264             360             64O             761
With Projct
fleldr -                    t                *.4             2.4           2,7           2.6              2.S           1.7              1.1            0.6             2.2
prlie                     T/t                        111            340             160          200             241           640              FAG           3,407             410
Product value              T                       1,679            6l16            972          s20             605        I2m0u             1.126           2,044            99
By-product value           v                         1S6            On               63           74             InS             so              sk             270             101
Total Value            v                       1.1 89          66            I 019           '94            712          1.146            1.176          .JL&            1.91A
Input Cost.
Seeda                    hg                14n      74    tin    '.    40         2S  ISO       6n  90    IA    SS            61         9      S      60      43      is      96
Fertilizer                                         166            146            120           106             III            91              164             200            It5
of whIch,
of  htit                       1.2      AA      7      74    *1               2t43          51 Sl    Ss    67    i6       22       7n      61      Al    101      81     Inl
P                   tix        1.2     21      27      24    29    24         29   24      29        in    22    16       43       M      41      3       43      31      43
c                   hk        0.6      1A      20       4      1      1        2    0       0        3      2      3       2        A      I       2       I       2       I
Ofganic              t       20.0        2     24       2    24       2       1A     2     24         2    24      2      24        I      l0      9      91       3      30
Agric. cheieales                                    16             12              IA            a              1'            12               12              PA              12
MachInery                                           2n              7               7            I               0             7                7              Is               7
Dralt animals                                       42            26              26            26              40            20               26              26             26
Irriatleon              .3    O.0062  6,30n        41  2,900    is   7sn          11    0        n   2,90      Is   75s         1   2.400      21  2,W        is  2,500       23
Other lb                                            44            46              *1           1iS              in             f)              1               77              66
Subtotal                                        430            322             24O          236             260            212              223            4 2             *06
Not Value                                     1.406            299             MY7           15J            452            9I9             t90           152               6"I *
Labor required         ean-daya                      371            114             102          112             122           245              312             644             776                     U 
la  Includins  crop by-producta ecept as used for drafc saiml fodder or compast.                                                                                                                          LA  l
Lb  Purchase and repair of tolo, traneport and sale. ezpence, and mAnAGseent overhead.



ANNEX 5
- 70 -                                                Table 6
CWRIA
PISRIEANC-CRAORU AMIA DYEILOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Budget at Full Development
/b
Pigs (head) /a    Draft cattle (be-a&   Chickens (flock) /c   Ducks (flock) Id
Units  Price  Amt.  Value  Price  Amt.   Value  Price  Ant.   Value  Price  Amt.  Value
Without Pro ject
Production
Carcass            kg      1.46  loo    146    0.88       8      7    2.20      57   125    1.70  187    318
Eggs               kg                     0               0      0    2.50    251   627                      n
Manure             t         20  1.5     30       12      6    66       60       1    60       hO    I     6f0
Other /e           Y                      0               0   143                      0                    0
Subtotal         Y                    176                   216                    812                  378
Costs
Stock             nos.      24    1      24                      a    0.40    136    54    n,5n  115       58
Concentrate        kg     n.20  250      50    0.24      90    22    0.27  1,700   462    0.27  440    120
Forage/fodder      kg     0.04  3nn      12    0.03  2,5no    75                       n                     n
Other /f           T                     20                     15                    14                   30
Subtotal                              106                   112                    531                  207
Nret Value       Y                     70                   104                    282                  171
Labor             man-day                  30                     60                   IR                   60
With Project
Production
Carcass            kg     1.70   40    153         1     17    17    2.20       57   125    1.7n  384    653
Eggs               kR                     0                      a    2.50    317   7q2                     0
Manure             t         10    1     10        6    5.5    33       30       1    3n       30    2     60
Other /e           Y                      0                    15n                     0                    0
Subtotal         Y                    163                   209                    948                  713
Costs
Stock             nos.   36.0n    1      36                     0    0.40    115    46    n.50  213    107
Concentrate        kg     0.20  3O0    60    n.24    150    36    n.27  2.218   603    0.27  9On    245
Forage/fodder      kg     0.04  20n       R    0.03  2,500    75                       n                    n
Other /f           Y                     10                     15                    25                   50
Subtotal         Y                    114                   126                    67 6a                401
Net Value        Y                     49                    R3                    273                  312
Labor             man-day                  15                     60                   0on                   60
/a Costs per pig fattened (without project: current techniques; with proiect: leaner breeds and more SRs).
/b Annualized cost per animal in stock. Includes costs & revenues from draft animal use, breeding and
culling.
!c Annualized cost per household flock of 100 birds, accounting for reserves and culls.
Id  Annualized cost per commercial flock of 100 table birds using specialized household technology.
/e Income from use of draft aninals and sale of calves.
if Including fuel, electricity, feed processlig, stable repair, veterinary and breeding fees, and mortallty
losses.



ANNEX 5
- 71 -                    ~~~~~Table 7
- 71 -
CHINA
PISHIRANO-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Budget for Forest Development /a
(Y per ha/year)
Establishment    Maintenance      Harvesting
Year 1      Years 2-24/b       Year 25
Unit    Price   Amt.    Value  Amt.   Value   Amt.    Value
Production
Poles            m3        176       -      -    1.1      200      -          -
Logs             m3        220       -      -    0.7      150    110    24,200
Fuelwood         kg       0.10       -      -      50       5      -          -
Subtotal                                 -             355           24,200
Input Costs
Seedlings       each      0.12   3,750    450                   -             -
Other                                      35               4             1,265
Subtotal                               485               4             1,265
Net Value                             -485             351           22,935
Labor                    man-day             240             30               726
/a Including solid stands and border plantings.
/b Assuming thinning at years 5, 10, 15 and 20.



ANNEX 5
- 72 -                             Table R
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aguaculture Budget for Intensively-Managed Fishponds
(yuan per ha) /a
Unit         Price         kmount        Value
Production                          t           1,100         3.75          4,125
Costs
Fingerlings                     each          0.036        6,000            216
Pig manure                        t              10         13.5            135
Chicken manure                    t              30          2.3             69
Grass/vegetable waste             t              50           3R          1,900
Other                            Y                                          300
Subtotal                                                               2,620
Net Value                                                              1,505
Labor                           man-days                                      600
/a  Budget for additional, unimproved ponds which will be stocked with proj-
ect. With or without project, income will continue to be derived from
ponds, lakes and reservoirs (a portion of which are stocked) which are
managed extensively (without the addition of manure or vegetable mat-
ter). This averages about Y 17 per family.



ANNEX 5
- 73 -                               Table 9
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flood Control Benefits at Full Development
(Y per ha protected) /a
Reduced
losses                      2
Crops                                                2,227                     18.6
Timber                                                 688                      5.7
Fisheries/sidelines                                    157                      1.3
Water conservancy                                      247                      2.1
Power/communications lines                              98                      0.8
Roads/bridges                                           13                     0.1
Farm machinery                                          98                      0.8
Industry/commerce                                      432                      3.6
Public buildings                                        48                      0.4
Private property /b                                  6,052                    50.5
Relief/recovery investments /c                       1,341                     11.2
Other losses                                           585                      4.9
Total                                          11,985                   100.0
/a Estimated from damage in the 1983 flood to three diked areas; all values
adjusted to 1994, based on an estimated 2% annual average growth.
/b Including housing, furnishing, animals and stores.
/c Including supplies of grain, fertilizer and seed, temporary housing, fuel,
medical care and costs of restoring embankments and fields.



CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Labor Requirements by Activity
(Man-days per ha)
Trans-       Application of:
Land pre-  plant/              Ferti-  Pesti-  Weeding/  Irri-
paration   scwing   Manure  lizer    cide    hoeing   gation   Harvest   Other    Total
Future Without Project
Single-crop rice                   60           72       12      36       24        48         48       96         12        408
Double-crop rice                   96          156       24       36      48        84        96        180        12        732
Wheat                              48           36       36       24       12        36        24        84        24        324
Maize                               12          60       24       24       12        48        24        84        12        300
Tuber                              48           72       24       24        0        60         0       120        36        384
Other grain                        48           36       36        6      12        36         24       84         24        306
Soybean                            36           48       36      12       12        36         12       60         12        264
Oilseed                            48           72       24      36       12        60         12        72        24        360
Cotton                             60           60       36      60       84        96         24       144        84        648
Kenaf                              60           36       36      60       24        108        12       264       168        768
Total ('000 man-days)    82,680    103,496  32,526  46,790  34,081   77,482   54,989  146,420   31,351   609,815
Future With Project
Single-crop rice                   54           55       18      44        12        36        30       109        18        376
Double-crop rice                   86          120       36      44       24        48         72      217         18        665
Wheat                              43           33       46       29        2        24        24        97        36        334
Maize                               11          50       30       31        6        36        24       96         18        302
Tuber                              43           72       24       26        0       60          0       121        36        382
Other grain                        43           35       48       14        2        24        24       96         36        322
Soybean                            32           44       36      18        6         18         6       73         12        245
Oilseed                            43           60       36      47         6        24        12       80         24        332
Cotton                             54           60      48       74       60        72        24       156        96         644
Kenaf                              54           36       36       74       12      108         12      264        180        776
Total ('000 maa-days)       78,492      94,397  49,800  59,360  18,480   53,937   46,173  186,458   44,198   631,295



CHINA
PTSHTHANG-CHAORU AREA DF.VFLOPHFNT PROJECT
Crop Labor Requirements by Honth
(Han-days per ha)
Jan     Feb       Mar       Apr       May       Jun      Jul       Aug       Sep       Oct       low      Dee      Total
Future Without Project
Single-crop rice                    0       0                  60        72        R4        36       36       12n         n         0        0        403
Double-crop rice                    0       0        36        96        96        72      II.4       96        45        R4       60         0        732
Wheat                              36        n       36         n        60        16         n        n                  60        45       4U        324
Haize                               n       0         0         0        24        R4        24       24        36        96        12        0        300
Tuber                               n       n         12       52        24        91        20       24        36        96        24        0        354
Other grain                        36       0        36        30        66         n        0         0         0        48        42       45        306
Soybean                             n       n         o         n        24        66        37       33        24        AO         n        0        264
Oilseed                            36      24        24        24        7R         n        n         n        12        66        72       24        360
Cotton                              0       0        36        96        4R        An        72       72        72        96        72       24        64R
Kenaf                               0       0         0         0        24        72       72        60       120       336        60       24        768
Total ('000 man-days)    19,390   5.666   25R4n9  64,193   97,435   78,444   52,A93   44,115   A3,566   67,330   48,7A8    22.1n6   6n9.815
Future With Project
Single-crop rice                    n       n         n        53        65        70        27       29       132         n         n        n        376
Double-crop rice                    n       n        36        90        91        42      129        90        28        An       79         0        665
Wheat                             1I        n        39         0        60        4R         0        n         n        65        45       43        334
Haise                               n        0        n         n        29        RI        2n       20        32       115        IS        0        302
Tuber                               0       0        In        49        25        96       21        24        37        96        24        0        332
Other grain                        31       n        4n        30        75        n         n         0         0        55       45        43        322
Soybean                             0       0 )                n        20       59        3n        26       1I         92        0         0        24S    I I
Oilseed                            26      IA        IR        In        At        0         0         n        12        73       63        1R        332        t
Cotton                              0       0        42        90        43        55       66        66        66       In6       8n        3n        644      o X
genaf                              O        n         0         0        18       73        73        6n       120      336        66        30        776     1 4
Total ('000 man-days)    16,732   4,R51   31.4n5   60,235   99,572   64,104   58.4R2   46,694   67,514   95,092   65.157   21,256   631,295



AM=8 6
-76 -                                              Table
PISWAUNC-CRAORI ARZA DEVELOPMENT PRnJECT
Farm Income at Full Development Witb and Without Project
Pishlhang          Chaohu          Support            Total
irrilation       irrigation        services        pro1ect area
Unit      Without  With   Without   With   Without   with   Without  With
Total farms                        000         610     610      621      621      SOR    80a    2.039   2,039
Farm labor force                  '000       1.220   1,220    1,126   1,126    1.425   1,425    1.771   3,771
Farm Characterietice
Cultivated area                 ba          0.52    0.52     n.35    0.35      0.47    n.47     0.45    0.45
Sown area                       ha          0.89    n.96     0.6O    0.68     0.80    0.87      0.76    0.84
Labor supply                  man-dnye       600     600      544      544      529     529      555     555
Cattle. baffalo                nos.         0.22    0.22     0.22    0.22     0.22    n.22      0.22    0.22
Pigs fattened                  nos.         0.59    1.33     0.59    1.33      0.59    1.33     0.59    1.33
Chickens                       foe.         3.23    6.27     3.23    6.27      3.23    6.27     3.23    6.27
Ducks                          nos.         3.56    R.79     3.56    R.7      3.56    R.79     3.56    8.79
Fish ponds                      ha          0.06    0.06     0.06    0.06      0.06    n.06     0.06    0.06
8ev afforested area             ha           NIA    n.02      N/A    0.0n       V/A    n.02  Nf A    0.01
Gross Income Sources
Crops                          YIha        1,121   1.436    1.178   1,447    1,129   1,30R       N/A     N/A
Cattle, buffalo      Tle nitl                216     209      216     209      216      209      I/A    N/A
Pigs                         Yfenimal        176     163      176      163      176     '63      I/A     N/A
Chicken                     Y/100 birds      R12    948       R12     948      812      948      I/A    N/A
Ducks                       Y1nO1 birds      378     713      378     713       37R     711      N/A     V/A
Fish ponds                     T/ha          N/A   4,125      8/A   4,125      8/A   4.125       SIA     N/A
Tree harvesting                Yfha          N/A     355      N/A     355      X/A      355      8/A     8/A
Operating Costs
Crops                          1/ha          305     331      316     344       305     329      NIA     V/A
Cattle. buffalo       Y       /anim_l        112     126      112     126      112      126      8/A     N/A
Pigs                         Y/animal        106     114      106     114       106     114      M/A    N/A
Chicken                     Y/100 birds      531     674      531     674       531     674      N/A     N/A
Ducks                       Y/100 birds      207     401      207     401       2n7     401      S/A     N/A
Fish ponds                     YTha          lIfA   2.620     8/A   2,620      Nl/  2.620        8/A     I/A
Tree harvesting                Yfha          NIA       A      q/A       4       V/A       4      N/A     |/A
Expected flood loss            Y/ha            0       0      326      76         0       0      N/A     N/A
Taxes & irrigation             YIha           2R      51       20       33       25      34      N/A     N/A
Crons Income per Farm              Y
Crops                                        997   1.375      704     985       900   1.132      869   1,160
Livestock                                    191    3RS       191     3R5       191     385      191     385
Aquaculture                                   17      49       17      49        17      49       17      49
Forestry                                      27      36       27      27       27       33       27      32
Off-farn income                               Iq      63       61      63       61       63       61      63
Subtotal                                1.293   1.908    1,000   1,509  13196   1.662    1.165   1.689
Total Operating Costs                     383     6n8      416     553      355      576      382     579
Taes and irrigation fees                        25      49       12      23        20      30       19      33
Net Farm Incote                           885   1.251      572     934      821   1.056       764   1.077
Labor                          man-days
Crops                                        346     353      232     251      310      319      297     309
livestock                                     39      45       39      45        39      45       39      45
Aquaculture                                   12      15       12       15       35      35       21      23
Forestry                                      19      20       19      19        19      20       19      20
Off-farm income                               31      32       31      32        31      32       31      32
Irrigstion eJten O &                           0 O    10        0       7        0        9        0       9
Total                                     L47     475      333     369      434      460      407     437
/a Frou Annex 5. Tables I and 2.
/b Pro. Annex 5, Tables 5-9.
/c Excluding taxes and irrigation fees.



ANNEX 6
Table 4
Fax I1oe
Year.    1        2       3        4        5       6        7       8       9-24     25
1 1rit Arem(O.5 ha 5e
Croo  Value of Productoo
Crop-                        1.106   1.106   1.106   1 106   I 155   1.2n7   1.260   1.116   1.175   1.175
Livestoek                      191     191      191      191     220      253     291      135     3s5    30S
Aquocultur-                     17      I?       17       17      21       26      32       4o      4H       1
Forestry                        27      27       27      27       29       30      12       34      3*      520
Off-farm Ince.                  6I      f.1      61      61       61       6Z      6.2      *3      61       63
Subtotel                   1402   1.602   1'A2   1402   1 486         1 577   1.676   1.767   I.906   2.392
Expea tu
OperatiMO  aupadltar.          13      13     413      41      446      A62     521      563     606      633
tDe.. worklax captcal            0       0        a O     7       in       t9      21       23       0     -M
Taxes  water charu2o 25                 25       25       25      2.       13      V7       43      49       40
Subtotal                    438      438      438     455      &93      53     579      626     657    5S5
Net tneeo  with proJect          964     964      964     947      991   1*.q3    1.8   3.15    1.251   I.Ra7
%et tnco.. .,thot project        964     96       964     964      946      932     *16      910     665      na5
tacrugatd Inco..               0       0        a     -t?       46      Ilt    171       259     166      922
F  iy Labor ftrnurmt
-Wth project                  4*0       15      "5      85      "1      477     473      60     465      18
wltboet project                485     48       65     8       477      49      62      454      "7      447
tacreemat                      S       0   0        0            ~        7           11  15     1        13
1-1 *:  Chaebo Irrimetto.
Deafit r.  13.35 h. a'-g)
Croon Value of Prouetloan
Crops                          780      7t0     780      70      1117     656     397      940     96S      965
Llveetock                      191     191      191      191     220      253     291      135     385      385
Aqoaculture                     17       17      17       17      21       26      12       0      49       49
Foretry                         27      27       27      27       27       27      27       27      27       27
Off-farm tinco                  63      61       61       61      41       62 -   62        63      63       *3
Subtotal                   1.n76   1.076   1.076   1.076   1I1"6   1.224  1L           IA0f   1.509   1.5ng
Opertau  eueditturc            479    4*79       79      479     3       5017     522     537     553      S53
ancre. workias tapItal           a       0        0        7       7        7       6        p       0      -37
Taxes & wter charxes            12       12      12       12      14       16       16      20       21      23
Subtotal                     691     491      491     496      514     51n      547      565     576      S30
Met tacane with Protect          5A5      515    565       578     633      404     762      639     431      970
Met Incoeg without prolect       585     s5      585      565     582      son     177      575      572     572
acr.ntatal Inco.               0       0        n      -7       50      11     15       7A4    161       ln
'ash. Labor Woqul remat
Utth proJect                   358      i5s     351      151     362      16.1    'me      172      376     *91
ilthout Dtroect                356     i56      3l5              351     344     143      338      113     131
taI-erent                      0       '        n       n        9       i     26        314       3       5JI
-%del C:  Iatrattocure2
Cross Value of Productton
Creps                          097     997      097     447   1.n23   1.049  I076    l0I4   1.132   1.132
Litegdt                         it9    191      191     191      220      253     291      335     365 315
Aquceulturo                     17       17      17       17      21       24      12       An      49       49
*orestr)                        27      27       27      27       28       2       30       12      313     517
Off-far Income                  *1       61      61       41      61       -2      S2       63      61       63
Subtotal                   1 293   1.293   1.293   1 293   1 J53   1 S19   1 s 12   t  572   1 662   2.1,6
Expenditures
Operctiag expoalture           181      3111     Ul      3S1     41      44Q     U18      510      576     a01
tract. worktax Cavital           0       0        0       16      16       19      21       23       n      -_n
T xr- & water cha-rm            20      2P       20       2n      22       24      26       26       3n      1n
Subtotal                     401     401      401     417      S53     192      $35    5S6       606      514
Net taco.. with uroject          602      6az2     q2      676     en0      026      57     091    n*0n6   16K12
sec lncoee   without Proj ect    62       *92     692     692      R7       R51     669      615 "    2I       621
TneEre_e !I taceo              o       0        0     -16       22        '     In      1S7     235      791
FWdly Labor loquir e_t
wlth project                   472      $i.7    467      467     1.67     S6A      16      60      U.6 56    4
Ulthout pro tect               *67     67      67      *S67    660      *5'     47      40     43       1.34
Tacr_aent                      5       0        n       n        7       14      21       26      31.      sn



ANNEX 6
-78-                                       Table S
CHINA
PISHIEANC-CHAOUU AREU DEV=LOPHENT PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery
Model A       Model B       Model C
610,000 RH   621,000 MR   808,000 RR    Total
(Yuan) -                  (Y min)
At Full Project Development /a
Incremental income /b                            390            375           240           664
Less:
Imputed value, family labor /c                  36            86             70           132
Imputed value, management services {d           39            38             24            66
Imputed return to own capital /e                12             4             12            19
Allowance for risk/uncertainty7f                39            38             24            66
Subtotal                                   126           165           130           284
Equals:
Project Rent                                   264           210            110           380
Project Charges
Incremental water charges                     24            14             5             27
0 & M obligations /8                          20            14             0             21
Total Charges                               44            28             5             48
Rent Recovery Index (Z) lh                        17             13             4            13
During Project's Life /i
Pro!ect rent                                     944           744            371         1,337
Project Charges
Incremental water charges                       83            51             18            97
0 & H obligations a                             85            59              0            88
Civil work levies A                            103            83              0           114
Reduced public expenditure /k                    0            88             0             54
Total Charges                              271           281            18            354
Rent Recovery Index (Z) /h                        29             26             5            22
Project costs /1                                                                              480
Cost Recovery Index /m                                                                         74
Per capita income, 1994 (USS)                       88             77            84
/a  Average. 1994-2009, in constant 1984 values.
/b  Before deduction of incremental water charges, from Annex 6, Table 4.
T7  Family labor, excluding 0 & M obligations, valued at Y 2/man-day.
7T  Ten percent of net incremental income.
/e  On incremental vorking capital, assumLng 12Z rate of return to alternate uses.
If  Ten percent of net incremental income.
7   At 15 work-days/ha obligation, plus 25Z for on-farm works.
/h  Total charges (excluding reAdced public expenditures) as a percent of project rent.
7?  Expressed as present values 3ver 25-year project life, discounted at 12Z.
/i Value of levies on farmers to defray cost of civil works, convertable into labor.
/k Reductions in losses of public infrastructure and flood relief costs due to flood
control works.
/1  Total public outlays, including 0 & M costs, but excluding rural development costs
which are recovered from sales to farmers, fees for service, or loan repayment.
/a  Project charges, including reduced public expenditures, as percent of project costs.



ANNME 6
79 -                                               Table 6
CHINA
PISRIRANG-CRAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Benefits and Costs Oy Area and Component
(Y millions, 1984 values)
NPY                                                              1994-
12Z    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   2009   2010
Pishihang Irrigation Area
Crop income                      8,671    975    975    975    975  1,024  1,076  1,131  1,189  1.249  1,249
Other income                     2.905    261    261    261    261    296    336    381   *432    490    819
Subtotal income             11.576  1.236  1.236  1.236  1,236  1.320  1.412  1.512  1.621  1,739  2.068
Operatlons cost                 8,324  1,003    989    989    989  1,016  1,044  1,072  1,102  1,132  1,452
Working capital                     27      0       0      0     11      11      12     13     14       0    -61
Fixed capital /a                   293    103     98      78     65      57      0       0      0      0   -100
0 & M                               SO      0       0      0      0       0     12      12     12      12     12
Subtotal costs               8,695  1,106  1,086  1,067  1,064  1,084  1,067  1,097  1,128  1,144  1,303
Net benefit with project        2,882    129    149    169    172    236    345    415    493    596    765
Net benefit without project    1,829    247    243    239    235    231    227    227    227    227    227
Incremental Net Beneflt      1.053   -118    -93    -70    -64         5    117    157    266    368    538
Chaohu Irrigation Area
Crop Income                     6,202    694    694    694    694    731    769    809    852    897    897
Other income                    2,813    259    259    259    259    292    329    371    419    472    472
Subtotal income              9,015    953    953    953    953  1,023  1,098  1,181  1,271  1,369  1,369
Operations cost                 7,190    884    884    884    884    897    911    924    938    952    952
Working capital                     10      0      0       0      4       4      4       5      5      0    -23
Fied capital                      239    104      77      37     53     53       0       0      0      0    -81
O & M                              98       0      0       0      0       0     23      23     23     23      23
Subtotal costs               7,537    988    961    922    941    954    938    952    966    975    871
Net benefit with project         1,478    -35     -8      32     1Z      68    160    228    305    394    498
Net benefit without project       515      69     68      67     66      65     64      64     64     64      64
Incremental 1et Benefit        962   -104    -76    -35    -54         3     96    164    240    330    433
Otber Areas
Crop income                     9.685  1,140  1,140  1.140  1,140  1,177  1.215  1,255  1,296  1,338  1,338
Other income                    3.764    338    338    338    338    383    435    493    560    635  1,064
Subtotal income             13,450  1.478  1.478  1,478  1,478  1,560  1,650  1,748  1,856  1,973  2,402
Operations cost                10,247  1.228  1,209  1,209  1,209  1.246  1,283  1,322  1,362  1,403  1,702
Working capital                     35      0      0       0     13      15     15      17     19      0    -78
Fimed capital                      101     56     38      18      9       7      0      0       0      0    -32
0 a N                               0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0
Subtotal costa              10,383  1.284  1.248  1,227  1.231  1.268  1.299  1,339  1.381  1.403  1,592
Net benefit with project        3,067    194    230    251    247    293    352    409    475    570    810
Net benefit without project    1,997    269    265    261    257    253    249    249    249    249    249
Incremental Net Benefit      1,070    -74    -34    -10       -9     40    103    160    226    321    561
/a  Residual value in 2010 taken to be 252 of cunlative investment.



ANNEX 6
80 -                                 Table 7
CHINA
PISHIEANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Econouic Benefits and Costs
(Y million, 1984 values)
Net benefit with project           Net benefit without project       Total
Pishi-           Other    Total    Pishi-            Other    Total   incremental
hang    Chaohu  areas        /a     hang    Chaohu  areas        /a    benefit /a
1986          129      -35    194        289       247      69    269         585       -296
1987          149       -8    230        372       243      68    265        575        -204
1988          169       32    251        451       239      67    261        567        -115
1989          172       12    247        431       235      65    253        558        -127
1990          236       68    293        597       231      65    253        549          48
1991          345      160    352        857       227      64    249        541         316
1992          415      228    409      1,053       227      64    249        541         512
1993          493      305    475      1,273       227      64    249         541        732
1994          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
1995          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
1996          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
1997          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
1998          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
1999          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
2000          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
2001          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249         541      1,019
2002          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
2003          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
2004          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
2005          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249         541      1,019
2006          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
2007          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
2008          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
2009          596      394    570      1,559       227      64    249        541       1,019
2010          765      498    810      2,073       227      64    249        541       1,532
NPV (12%)   2,882   1,478  3,067       7,426    1,829      515  1,997      4,341       3,085
Economic rate of return - 36%
/a Totals may not sum due to rounding.



ANNEX 6
Table 8
- 81 -
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CRAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Appraisal     Switching      Change      Elasti-
value        value /a       (Z)        city /b
Crop yields at full develop-
ment (t/ha) /c                      4.9           3.8         -23          4.3
Economic crop prices (Y/t) /d        544             71         -87          1.1
Economic value of cash opera-
tions cost  (Y/farm)             1,008          2,367        +135        -0.7
Economic value of investment
and O&M casts (NPV ( 12%,
Y/ha)                               851         4,211        +395         -0.3
Shadow wage (Y/man-day)               1.7           9.2        +450        -0.2
/a  Value of variable tested at which net present value of project costs and
benefits (discounted at 12%) is reduced to zero.
/b Percent change in net present value (discounted at 12%) due to a 1% change
in the variable.
/c Average yield of brown rice per sown ha, all other crop yields reduced
proportionately.
/d Economic price of brown rice at full development, adjusted to the farm-
gate level, all other crop prices reduced proportionately. Effect on
without-project i'ncome exceeds effect on with-prolect income, because
income sources are more diversified with project.



ANNEX 7
- 82 -                              Page 1
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
System Operations Studies
1.        Effective operating systems for the Pishihang irrigation area and
Chaohu flood control works should permit continuous monitoring and rapid
analysis of field data, along with adjustment of management decisions based on
the results. Technical assistance would be provided to the Pishihang General
Administration (GA) and Chaohu Flood Control Management Center in the form of
studies which lead to the development of operating systems which meet these
criteria. Terms of reference for this technical assistance would be developed
during Negotiations. The following indicates the scope envisioned for the
studies.
2.        The Pishihang and Chaohu studies would each consist of two phases,
in which the first phase would define the full scope of work and
responsibilities and required budget for the second phase. The first phase,
which would be conducted over one or more calendar years, would include
collection of existing data and review of present operations procedures,
preliminary planning of an improved operating system, and estimates of cost;
the findings of the first phase would be discussed with and accepted by AWRB
before proceeding to the second phase. The second phase would cover detailed
design of systems, assistance in prepaing technical specifications and
supervising instalLation, training of operations staff, and continued support
to the management system. Responsibilities of the consultants in each phase
are described below:
Pishihang Irrigation System
Phase I
(a) Review existing hydrological data and recommend further data
collection as necessary;
(b)  Review existing water level and flow measurements in the
irrigation system and reco-nend further data collection;
(c) Analyze water availability for irrigation areas based on
present and projected cropping patterns and rainfall patterns
of varying frequency;
(d) Review existing management techniques and procedures and
identify constraints and deficiencies;
(e) Develop preliminary recommendations for a system for
collecting, analyzing and displaying field data on ctops.
rainfall, river and canal flows and field conditions in various
irrigation areas at the Pishihang GA in Liuan;
(f) Develop preliminary recommendations for an operating syscem
based on computerized simulation techniques which would-
optimize reservoir storage allocation for flood control and
irrigation, and regulate canal flows based on crop water



ANNE 7
- 83 -                             Page 2
requirements under varying soil moisture and rainfall
conditions;
(g) Prepare estimates of costs of equipment, additional staff, and
training for implementation of the system;
Ch)  Document all studies, findings and recommendations in a report
to be discussed and agreed with AWRB.
Phase II
(a) Complete final designs and cost estimates for the system;
(b) Assist in preparation of technical specifications for
procurement of system equipment and evaLuation of bids;
(c) Assist in supervision of installation, testing and
comissioning of equipment;
(d) Provide technical training in the form of seminars and on-the-
job training of operations staff;
(e) Provide continued assistance for one irrigation season after
installation of the system to refine and adjust the system for
effective operation.
Chaohu Flood Control
Phase I
Ca) Review existing hydrological data and recommend further data
collection as necessary;
Cb) Review existing flood level and flow measuring stations in the
Chaohu flood control system and recommend improvements;
Cc) Review existing flood control management techniques and
procedures and identify constraints and deficiencies;
Cd)  Develop preliminary reco  endations for a system for
collecting, analyzing and displaying field data on drainage
areas, flood leveLs and quantities, rainfall, lake and river
stages, and pumping discharges and levels in a proposed Flood
Control Management Center in Chaoxian;
(e) Develop preliminary recommendations for an operating system
based on computerized simulation techniques which would
optimize control of gates and pumping stations with respect to
irrigation and flood control requirements under varying
hydrological and meteorological conditions;
(f) Prepare estimates of costs of equipment, additional staff, and
training for implementation of the system;
(g) Document all studies, findings and recommendations in a report
to be discussed and agreed with AWRB.
Phase II
(a) Complete final designs and cost estimates for the system;
(b) Assist in preparation of technical specifications for
procurement of system equipment and evaluation of bids; -
(c)  Assist in supervision of installation, testing and
commissioning of equipment;



ANNEX 7
- 84 -                            Page 3
(d) Provide technical training in the form of seminars and on-the-
job training of operations staff;
(e) Provide continued assistance for one monsoon season after
installation of the system to refine and adjust the system for
effective operation.
3.        Estimated personnel man-months requirements and costs are shown in
Annex 2, Table 12. The services of foreign consultants need not be on a
continuous basis. They can be based on short visits to initiate works and
interpret results of field work to be carried out by staff of AWRB.



ANNEX 8
- 85 -                             Page 1
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Competitive Bidding
Background
1.        Until recently, assignment rather than any form of contracting was
the principal method of arranging for construction work in China. After
securing the approval of appropriate planning and design offices, the unit
financing a construction project would simply select one or another local
construction team (work brigade) to carry out the job, the primary determinant
of selection being availability to do the job at the required time. The
financing unit would draw up a simple requisition for services from the team
assigned to the project, specifying project scope and design, materials supply
a and starting and completion dates.
2.        As part of the economic reforms of the past fi-re years, including,
in particular, policies designed to encourage private enterprise, the
contractual relationship has replaced the administrative directive as the
organizing mechanism in the production of goods and provision of services. In
the case of construction projects, this has meant that the financing unit( or
its designated representative, the WSO) must sign a contract with the con-
struction company (formerly, team), though the company may still be assigned
to the job rather than competively selected. The principal type of contract
used has been the lump sum contract in which the company agrees to complete
the job within a specified time for a specified sum of money. In the past two
years, the MWREP has led the way in introducing local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures for construction projects in both the water resources and
power subsectors. The testing of these new procedures appears to be fairly
widespread. In a single municipality in Shandong Province, for example, of
13,700 water resources constructiou projects initiated during 1983, more than
9,700 were handled by contract bidding; six of the latter were large construc-
tion projects involving state investments.
Bidding Procedures
3.        This is a transitional period in the use of LCB.  Considerable
variation exists in procedures and types of contracts. What follows is a
general outline of procedures reportedly in current use for construction
projects in the water resources subsector.
4.   Invitation to bid.  The WSO--what is literally termed the "unit respon-
sible for construction"--with the assistance of the appropriate water
resources agency (Figure 5), draws up a construction budget iu iccoLdance with
working drawings prepared by the agency's survr-- and design oQfict.  A bid
announcement is then made through agency channels, informal pv.tlic aotice or
the press, giving information on budget, source of project fiu4n.tu'g, project
scope, standards and quality, and starting and completion dates.



ANNEX 8
- 86 -                           Page 2
5.        Prequalification.  Bidq may be submitted by both state-owned and
collective construction enterprises and by what are termed "non-business
construction units" which are groups of individuals or households which form a
temporary "company" for the express purpose of bidding on a specific
project. For their bids to be considered, bidders must meet certain
qualifications: e.g., they must have the required technical personneL and
equipment and the financial liquidity to cover any losses occasioned by delays
or faults in construction. Review of qualifications is carried out by the
provincial planning commission in the case of key provincial or inter-provin-
cial construction projects, by provincial WRBs for other projects involving
primarily provincial government funds, and by prefectural (municipal) WRBs for
all other local projects. Names of qualified contractors are maintained on a
standing approved list.
6.        Bid evaluation.  Under present procedures, personnel from the WSOs,
the People's Construction Bank, and the water resources agencies and their
affiliated design institutes are responsible for evaluating bids. Bids are
evaluated on the basis of price and the pre-qualification requirements. Bids
may not exceed the approved budgetary estimates set forth in the invitation to
bid. As a temporary measure, preferential treatment has been given to state-
owned enterprises in award of bids, in recognition of their higher overhead
costs and to compensate for prevailing profit retention and tax regulations
which favor the collective enterprises and "non-business construction units".
If awarded a contract, the coLlective or non-business enterprise must expect
6Z to be deducted from the total payment received.
7.        Contract provisions.  The contract drawn up between the successful
bidder and the WSO describes the scope of the project, stipulates the respon-
sibilities of the contracting party and contractor, and outlines penalties and
bonuses. It appears that contracts in current use are becoming increasingly
specific on these matters, but whether there has been real variation from the
basic, lump sum type of contract is unclear. The WSO is responsible for
supplying construction drawings and other technical data, providing quality
control, including materials testing, during construction, handling fund
disbursements through the People's Construction Bank(PCB) and inspecting the
completed structure before final payment. Materials supply may either be
handled by the WSO through contracts with materials supply companies, or, for
small contracts, by the construction unit directly. An advance payment of 25-
30% is made by the contracting party to cover purchase of materials and
mobilization of labor and equipment. Periodic payments are made as work
progresses with the advance deducted from payments made during the Last few
months of project construction. Usually about 5Z of the total payment is
withheld until after expiration of a guarantee period which is one to two
years following project completion. In the case of canal repair works, it may
be stipulated during the guarantee period that two or three pumping tests be
carried out (i.e., pumping the works dry again after the works have been
filled). Any faults in construction arising during this period must be
rectified by the contractor.



ANNEX 8
- 87 -                           Page 3
Economic and Other Benefits
8.        Units currently experimenting with LCB report positive results.
Numerous examples are cited of cost savings, most of them cases of companies
other than the favored few usually assigned local jobs, entering bids conside-
rably below cost estimates and thus winning contract awards. Reports also
cite increased efficiency and better quality work as advantages accompanying
LCB; this, apparently because contracts in current use more precisely spelL
out the contractor's responsibilities and penalties for faulty work and
include clear incentives for completion of construction ahead of schedule. An
increased number of small-scale water resource projects is mentioned as
another plus from LCB. It seems that the possibility of negotiating costs,
particularly with the less formal non-business construction units, has
encouraged villages to increase the level of their investments in water
resources construction.
9.        Along with economic benefits, a better use of human resources hai
been attributed to introduction of LCB. The very broad definition of a bidder
as any "able individual in society with construction skiLls and organizational
talents" has opened up employment opportunities for surplus rural labor.
Examples are cited of enterprising villagers who have recruited friends and
relatives--along with their equipment--to bid as a non-business unit on a
local water resources project. LCB has also encouraged the various WRBs to
make better use of their technical personnel. The WRB has become technical
consultant to both the contracting party, the WSO, and the contractor, the
construction company, assisting them with designs, budget, and technical
services during the construction phase.



ANNEX 9
- 88 -                    ~~~~~Page 
CHINA
PISHIHANC-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A.   Ceneral Reports and Sector Studies
A.1  IBRD, China: Long Term Issues and Options (Green Cover), Report No.
5206-CHA, February 8, 1985.
A.2  MAAF, China: Agricultural Yearbook, 1980-83.
A.3  Chen Zhongxun, "Bidding for Contracts:  A New Road in Construction
of Water Conservancy Works," Water Conservancy, October 1984.
A.4  Zhang Jinong, "Survey of Water Charges."  China:  Agricultural
Yearbook 1983.
A.5  Ye Yongyi.  "Problem of Charges for Water Conservancy Projects" (two
parts), Water Conservancy, November and December 1984.
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Project
R.1  AWRB and AAAFB, A Comprehensive Report of the Pishihang Area
Development Project in Anhui Province, October 1984.
B.2  AWRB, Planning Report for the Anhui Pishihang Irrigation Area
Construction Project, Jun-e 1984
B.3  AWRB, Appraisal Report  : the Anhui Pishihang Irrigation Area
Construction Project, ctober 1984.
B.4  AWRB, Supplementary Project Data for Pishihang Irrigation Project,
November 1984.
B.5  AAAFB, Preliminarv Report of iturai Dt'elopment Component Under
Pishihang Project (with three annexes), September 1984.
B.6  AAAFB, Revised seport of Rural Develo,ment Component Under Pishihang
Project, Sept iber 1984.
B.7  Anhui Plihjp 1 Irrigation Area Ger.eral Administration, Plans for
Irr1iREuion i uriment Station and Technical Training Center,
Sept         -
B.8  Cha"      4   .ure WRB, Feasibility Study of Chaohu Project, August-
Septet4,-. d4, including:
-    MjS,- feport
- iT-g- Control Study and Proposals
-    Feasibility Study and Design of Feighuangjing Pumping Station
-    Fe..;b=lity Study and Design of Niudunhe Flood Diversion
Channel
-    Economic Analysis
B.9  Cha z.au Prefecture WRB, Supplementary Project Data for Chaohu
Project, November 1984.
B.10 t381 Appraisal Mission, "Irrigation Water Requirements Computation
Tables for Pihe, Shihe, and Hangbuhe", February 1985.
B.11 AiBB, "Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project: Competitive
Bidding Procedures and Sample Contract."



H              o s7  W "       a <    ca  a laeD a go  on       C    lb  O 
c 0    Iz.9.9    a    a  e ILnr                                               r    *D
a*  ~    ~~~      U  IS  U             p                   .9at  .9   .9   .9mc s    a
P "         P   -  n  0             n      *.eW          SIr  SI *I bb             hb     S    m@e    >
a    >    :  :   .  ".        rf        _ r- Cl _5   -l D       - D0  -B J-    -  
*                          i -. 5 is _  O0 P- O 
r   "   *     _       a       n " n "                  n       n .
Ia            aI  c                                                 o o.I.    I     I           IC
O9             0.."                                   a
*  S  I~.  I-   II                            I        r
0.           a                   a v
:- ,s *                        .' O    o           O       O      O M 
S  15  0     *0            ~0 No0 l                                          0
8; I                                                  #v 
O   a ~ ~ ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       c     
I~~~~~S  0.~~~~~~~~
mrS  C. _--        _i__            -8:                                                                 -     ;g_  
-------------------------                             -__ I--I--iII------I---I--z                i             j
0- re*
*= S.                                                           3 o *g                   
3 p    _ _ -                  - -           -- ------ ----  --- --    -
.0                     - _                  -        -             - ---X --- __              -
-;  _  _                                       -    - -13-H  __            ---  --  -----
0.:
*    a                               -                                                                  -*=--- --* --* --
tr 51 -- --------                               i6------
Om X                                                                                                        w 8*5*X$XZ    
_=  _  _     --------   --Cl~*fi*                    _]_]sfi*fi**9 -*--
- _ _  ________ __N  N-- 6 -----8---8---                                                          _
-   -             -----            --___  _   _---   ----_|-_       - -S          --- --_
as                --------__          --X   ------!$-^--b5--^---^-----
*    -_      _____ ----- --8- ---w---         -R-H-R-R--
fb ,-   - ------- ---g-----T--Y--Y-Y-T                                                                -u
- c    ------------   ------|--|-0-f-- 
-6B-



CHINA
PISHIHANG - CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Water Resources & Electric Power
*~~~~~~~~~~~hoc I       I    c" 
F~F
rbl~~~~~~~~~~~~~wl Oman" a  Fbw
(I)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(A
1 1W   S1  141~iwA,~ca 1Awvw  buw1 1                                          1
P , fKa~1.                        _U                                                                   L,}  
Chl Po^~   l *                                            al Dii



CHINA
PISHIHANO - CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Struoture of the Anhul Water Resources Bureau
rWREP
Plahihang             I General Oftice i1611141        *15151    Planning & Con-         PrFeteotural/
Irrigatlon            I                                                                  MI truotlon  J  Hunil pal
Area Ceneral            .                              a                   D             Water Resources
Administration          F inanes Dlvision  1& Te1                             h          Bureaus
L -                               1001#1"  Soleinae & Tech-
s__I *       I nolosy DivIsion                  I
I Foreign Loan             I     I      I      .           I
Office        Ia."""1          I                                  ou      ae
*___________ Is m  1 *                   Irrigation &             Resources Bureaus
*    *      ]_Drainage Divialon       ___ --_____
*ea lProJeot Manase-
ment Division
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 6 , _ _ _ _ _ _-~ ~ ~ ~- - -- - - - -- --                - - - - - _-  ------- --- T -  - ---
-KWUT Water       Anhul  water                                                                                        -        Anhul
Resources        Resourcea &         Material &       Hydraulic           Projects           Dredging      Irrigation &       Hydrologic
Research         Hydropower          Equipment        Engineering &       Construotion       Coupany       Drainage           General
Institute        Investigation       Supply           Inotallation        Company                aoneraiL                     Staton
__ L Design        Company           Company                                             station
Inst, tute                               
(-------) organizations affiliated to AWRB
(0ll11l1) organizations direotly under AWRB



CHINA
PISHIHANG - CIIAOHIU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization ror Projeot Management
IAnhui Provinoial I
Government        I 
Provincial. Protect I
1----------------------  Steering Commitee  ---------------------------
Lluan and Chaohu                                                                      I- -_
Prefeotural and                                                             Pishthang - Chaohu
Hefei Munioipal                   Anhui Foreign Funds-                      Provincial Projeo-u
Govermenta                         Utilization Ofrice                       Management Office
                        I --_-------------Prerectural Pro eot I
Steering Committees
~Lluan Huoq:u, Jlnzhal,                                               
Shouxian. Shuoheng,
Feixi, Changfeng,                                                        Pishihan6 - Chaolu                          N
Lujlang. Huoshang,                                                    .  Prefectural/Municipal
Wuwei. Hangshang  & He                                                   Project Management Offices
County Goverments                                                                            .
_ _'   -  I            County Project
-----------------n-----  Steerlng Committees  .....____________..
Ls  rict1 Township,                                                   75iPFshihan  - 6haoIlu County
& Viliage Governments                                                  ProJect Management Office3
I                      I~       ~         I                 I                I
Administration      Research &       Water             Agricultural        Finance &       Monitoring &
Training        Resources         Technology          Materials       Evaluation
Engineering                           supply



CHINA
PISHIHANG - CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization for Construction of Project Irrigation and Flood Control Works
Anhui Provincial 
Government
---w-----------------------------------------------  Prov-iAnhuiProvi no alng
Commisslon
_________________-_-_--------- - Provinc al Waternt
TnResour  sBureau
ProviVcf=a              Prov: nolal_
People's                Project
Construction  ------  Management
Bank                    orrice       ------------------  Provinoial 'ishihang-and   * I%**
_         _ _                                               Chaohu Basal Engineer-                     _
I ing Construotion Offices         Provincial Water Resoures3
IIiEiIIII                                             - -~~~~~~~~ig  ontru   iEgioneeeinw
_ J   .                                                            Engineerin   & Construction
Prefectural/           Prefectural/                                                            Companies  a
Hunici pal             Municlpal                                       I
People'        -----  ProJeot ----------------  Pishihang and Chaohu Work_
Construction           Manageeont                          Supervigion Offices in   ulihn""*"          H*
Banks                  Offices (3)                         Liuan, Chaohu, & Hefel i
Prefectural Engineering &
Construction Companles /a
County               ICount                                Pishihang and Chaohu 
People's              Projeot                              County-level Work           -----------------------------------------
Construction  _____  Management    ------------            Supervision Offices (12)  IUIIIIIhIJI*I.
Banks                  Orfices (12)                                            _             _                              I Collective
I County Conatruction I           Labor
Teams /a                      j_Teama /b
(-----) indicates direct admini3trative control
ndlicates contraotual relationshilp
/a  Afftliated with water resources bureaus.  Under recently introduced LCB procedures, the provincial Engineering Offices and
prefectural and county W9Os may contract with firms at all adminiatrative levels, Jncluding those outaide the province.
/b  The county work supervision office Is directly involved in mobilizing township and village labor for
conatruotion of earthworks, 



CHINA
PISHIHANG - CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization for Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation and Flood Control Works
I Anhul Provincial
Covernment    I
I Provincial Water I               Pishihang Irrigation
_Reaouro aBureau            ---  Area Management                     Central Conveyance
IreteoturIl/                      I          I               Commission                         Canals  Main Canals,
Pretezeotural7-                         .                                                             Large Aeservoirs
Munlolpal                                ------------------    I__
poverlments                                                        Pi:hihang Irrigation
Area General
_                       I Administration
_______,______________  Prefedtural/Municipal
Water Resouroea
Bureusu                        I Plohihang Main Canal                 Subain Canals
.   -------------* ----     Management Commisasions         MHedium Reservoirs
County                                                          Canal Mana'ement
Govermnents  --     ------------------ ------------I          Branch Admfnistrations (3)
I Chaohu Flood DiveralonI
Channel & Pumping Sta tions                               Branch/Subbranch
Hanagement Units                                          Canals, Laterals/
.   _ _                                                  Sublaterals, Small
_                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reservolra
County Water
______________________   Resources Bureaus             __'rainch Canil Management-
D_strict,.T~nahip                     Resources Bureaus               Commissions \a/
I uitr-i atI T'W 'o3nh ip,   1_------------------
A Village Governments I____
X         X                      I ~~~~~~~~~Branch Canal I
Administrations
--------------------   nr Resource
I HaagemntGroups    .
\/Planned.



CHINA
PISHIHANO-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Crop Calendar
s     ILOCT  I JOV  I DEC   I JAN  I FEB- I MA R  I  IA REY  I JUN   I iUL -r A-    I SEP .1 OCT I
GREEN MANURE-EARLY                                                                                                          |
RICE-LATE RICE                           Rreen H-oa
WHEAT - LATE RICE                                                              =n
(RAPE)  (MIDDLE RICE) 
(BARLEY)   OR
SOYBEAN
(MAIZE)
RAPE - COTTON                                     
Z//LZ! _ ~Cotton - 
PEANUTS                                                                                Peanuka
SWEET POTATO                                                                                  Potito
Ii



'~~~~~r~ .F_V    .SS          S.;           ,r            .r            .
CHINA
PISHIHANG - CHAOHU AREA
-!,-;_- _&^= , S   SHANONG  ,.                       DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANHUI PROVINCE
'-" .-., _-             .         -t _-.\\ -.. -_.
tq2__~:    ''                                            -  -. -s,
->T'
HUBEtIt<                       -;        -           
N
-             ~~~~~~~~~~~5--, .
{<  '< to  _    _r ,   %   \    g   ZHEJIANG
~~~~~~-.-  -,--J
JIANGXI
_ 5 .          .                            SSrX            Sr           Sar D
_:.[



116. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .                              11g.                   mA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BO 18750
CHINA
PISHIHANG . CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
O*tA                                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DWD hvh 21 oM~ RM  - am& ~MM)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  CHni Gare s                                    RM  Wa &  >--  o/ht_
-  Ctoa OWn.   \     Ru/ Ab ,v! \i IV__
t> Xrc-_e \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ la  20i !{0; 40 /    )So
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-f~ .~amf '  X                               I                X~~     wdl
* upA 01ia  YC~~IS9w- 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ... . ....wo



