Doceut of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
1epot No. 12013
PROJECT COM    ION REPORT
CHiNA
PISEANG-4CA     AREA DEVOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2579-A/CREDIT 1606-C1A)
JUNE 17, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:12013 CHA   Type: (PCR)
Title: PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPS
Author: GIBBS, CHRISTOPHER
Ext.:31735 Room:T 9044 Dept.:OEDD1
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tOe perfonrance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units = Yuan (Y)
AppraisW Year (1984)      Y 2.8/$
Implementation (average)   Y 3.7/$
Completion Year (1992)    Y 5.4/$
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BOIRROWER
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ABC    - Agricultural Bank of China
AWRB   - Anhui Water Resources Bureau
ERR      - Economic Rate of Remrn
ICB     - lnteational Competitive Bidding
LCB      - Local Competitive Bidding
MWR    - Ministry of Water Resources
PCADP  - Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project
PCR      - Project Completion Report
PMO    - Project Magement Cffice
O&M    - Operation and Mantnce
SAR      - Staff Appraisa Report
TVE     - Township and Village Enterprise



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLI
THE WORLD SANK
Washgon,t D.C. 204
U.SA.
Opuml Ev_ uab
June 17, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIE DIRE_  ADTHE PRESIDENT
Subject     Project Completion Report on Chia
PishM%ang-Chaohu Area Dsvelopment Protect an279-/C.1606fC)
Atached is t*. Project Completion Report on Cbina Pishihang-Chaohv Area
Deadopment Project (LiL 2579-CHA and Cr. 1606-CHA) prepared by the East Asia and Padfic
Regiona Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
Pishlhang-haohu was the first Bank Group project to assist largcale  surfce
rrigation and flood control in China. Mh project more than achived is physical targets and ib rated
a satsaoy despite a complez design and isttutional and financial issues which arose duing
The share of prqect costs contributed by firmers through labor rose from 29 percent
to 44 percent at completion because of redu:ed availability of countepart funds. In addition
responsity fo repayment of the Bank loan, including the echang rate ris; is epecxted to be
ssiged to farrs,in line with sernment poliy introduced durmg the project period   he failure
to complete irigation mnagment studies and faciities may prevet ac ement of sstem
performance potentiaL Investments in flood controJ, howeve, have already paid off by substantialy
reducing the impact of the potentially catastrophic flood of 1991.
Prject sustainability i rated as ll*. There are no pls to audit the prqect
Attachment
IThI docunent ha a restitd ditbution and may be used by edpient only In the perfomranco of 1
ter offial dutes. ht contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authoiodon.



FOR OFFIC0 L US ONLY
PROJECT COMETON REPORT
CNA
PISHMANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELO                                 PROJECT
(LOAN 2579-CHA/CIT 1                        )
Pr ~.................................................... 
EvaluwonSumm..a...........................                               . iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANKS PERSPECTIVE
1. ProjeIdentity ..........                                          1
2. Background ..                                                      1
3. Project Objectives and Description .........................       2
4. Proiect Design and Organzaton ... .....     ..........    .        4
5. Project Inplementation ...........         ..............    7
6.  rojectResuIts .........................    8
7. Project Sustainability ...........       ...............   10
8. BankPerformance        .........................    11
9. Borrower Performance ...........          ..............   12
10. Project Reionships     .........................    12
11. ConsultatServices .........................                     13
12. Project D)ouetation and Data .....     .     ...................   13
13. essons Leaned        .........................    13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPE
1. Project Implementation    ............................   16
2. Benefit and Evaluation .................................   19
3. Experience and  esson.......................                     22
4. Evaluation of Work of World Bank  ....................        .  25
Appendix                    ......         ........... 27
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bak Loans and Credits  .............         ........   29
2. Project Timetable      ..........................    31
3. Loan/Credit Disbursmentss ..................          .......   32
4. Projet  lema Iondicators .........................   33
5. Project Costs and Financing ....................... .  .          34
6. ProjectResults .. ........ 36
7. StatusofCovenants .........................   40
8. UseofBankReseurses.. .............................   42
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients ooly in the perfomannce
of their ofAicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discsed without Wodd Bank authorizaton.



-I-
PROJECT COMPILETION RPR
*        P1SHNG-CHAOH ARE DEVELOPMNW PROJC
(LOAN 2579-HACRDI 166C)A
PREFACE
Ths is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Pishihang-Chohu Ar
Development Project in China, for which Credit 1606-CA for SDR 75.7 million (75.0 milo
alent at apprai) and Loan 2579-CHA fer $17.0 millon we  approved an Jun   1, 1985.
The Credit was fuily disbursed on Aust 15, 1991 and closed on June 30, 1992; the LAn was
filly disbued on May 20, 1992 (except fDr $267.2? which was cancelled) and losed on
October 31, 1992.
Ihe PCR was prepared by the Acture  perations Division, Country
Deatn t HI East Asa Regional Office (rface, Evaluation Summay, and Pats I and Ml),
and by Anhui rovince of Borrower (Part II).
Preparon of the PCR was started following a PCR mission which vt Anwh
in July 1992. The PCR is based on the finding of the PCR mision; zenve data provided
duin and after the PCR mission by Anhui Province; tie Staff Apprial Report (U); the
Dvopmet Credt  Loan, Anhu Project and Agrcultua Bank of China A
suevision  ports; corwespondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and Itnal Bak
Memoranda. The exceptional efforts of Anhui Province in assistng the PCR mssion and
provig data during and after the mission are noteworaty and much apprecid.



B 
8 iij  III r
411 Fl qiIi 1IiL
iiII'         Ii      114           I
a
1f1ph1
aiii   1e
I   I ew1I.I                                    
irii'41 PIA.L[j
I                      @0   S            I,
1w                                    0
111a111                           2
filil  Ipri                huh I            U



- iv -
TChnc   rplemenin ruired moblizadon of vitally th e ntre Anhul Watr Reso
Bureau (AWRB) and could have been facilitated with a mo  sectr-oriented Invten project
delg and m    drct Istitudona developmnt support for strengenig AWRB (Pt I, para
SA).
S.     Project achievements generdly ec    physical objectives specifed In the SAR. For
Pibihg, constcton of ma  can, brach cand and lawal can stuctures and earthworks
were on avge  140 percent and 190 percent of physica SAR trges, respecdvely. For
Chaohu, constuetion of earthworks and strucrs were well above SAR targets, and the
Fenuangjlng Pumping Station was completed per design. Tho rural developmnt componets
exceeded SAiL argets sually, especialy for the smaler components like seed procesing
facilities, fish  ursedes, and livestock breeding. Of the 54 rural credit subprojects, 17 have
already repaid their loas, and only two sWbprojec  failed (beca  of management and
markeig problms). The esmated ERR for the overall project at completion Is 27 perceat
compared to 36 percet at appraisal, despe a substa   deline in projedted rice prices.
Project flood control iVestmnts averted damage of more tm  double their cos in he 1991
floods (Part I, par. 6.1 and 6.6).
6.     The main deviations from SAR tagets concern the Shendahe pumping sion
(deleted), on-farm wurks (25 per   shortl), construction of the Pishag  rriadon waw
comrol centers, establishment of the Chaohu Flood Control Center and facilities, and completdon
of the m gement stduies (curry in draft) and technical assistance for Pishang and Chaohu.
Provinc  fds have been budget  to complete on-fam works ad the Irrigation and Flood
Conrol Cents and faciities. Compledon of maiagmen studies and faides, prormenF t
of cmputers and      ca          equmn, use of tehical asstae and training
components are important to maximize the retus rom the project and should provide lar
ain for smal inve     . Although the Provin  expects to complete the mangement studies
and  filities  nludIng equipmen procuement) with provincial fiuds, more priority shoud
have been placed on these 'software and 'human capitalk compone  during imentation
(Prt I paras. 6.2-6.3).
7.     Pisblhang was designed for an economic life of about 25 years, and Chaohu about 50
years which is norma for flood prtct  facilites in China. For Pisuihang, net benef  from
project investm     should be sustnable at curwny planned levels. O&M is adeate, and
wator carges are collected in line with cumet policy and are sufffcient to cover expcted O&M
costs. For Chaohu flood control facilities, however, there I no system for charging for flood
protection and recovering part of Iae very large flood protecton benefi from the beneiaries.
It is esal ta pvincia and loca governments provide adeqaWe budget for O&M of these
facilities (art I, para. 7.1).
8.     For Pishihang, the basic sunabilty of the system at current  (fUl developmet)
performane leves is not in quesdon, but long-run pufmance capability in tms of
managemen and adjusment to hagig fute conditions may be. Much of the technial
upgrading unde the project will provida the capability for bettr performa     ad more



-v -
flexibility, but measures under the project to strengthen management as envikged under the
project were not completed (Part 1, para. 7.2).
Findings and LAsons Lrned
9.     Ihe major findings and lessons from the project are (Par I, para. 13.1):
(a)  project preparation should emphasize forlation and agreement an the dailed
c',janlztional and stffing arrangements for impleetatIon;
(b)  preparation should include comnplete formlaon of project financing plans, including
agreement on projected countepart fiuds required from all levels concerned;
(c)  local governmmits 6d ultmately farmers should not be required to bea the exchange
risk of the Bank/IDA loan;
(d)  the user should pay" principle shoud contne to be followed In irrigation project,
accompanied by increased user participation in project planning, implemenation and
opersion;
(e) flood protection investments should include arrangements for recovery of flood
protection costs;
(t)  irrigation projects should include  stituional provisions for unified rigation system
manlagement
(g)  expanded use of LCB and contr g for local irigaton wodr should be included in
Ature irrigation projects;
(h)  institutional support for strethening of egineern design, quality control, monitoring
capability, and information management, and moe direct farmer involvemen in local
level desig, layout and imple tion, shoud be built into irigation projects; and
(i)  commissioning proeres for Irigation projec should be speied during preprtion
and strengthened.



-1-~~~
PROJECT COMTION RT
1INA
AREADEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LDA 259CHCRDI 166CHA)
PART I: PROJECT                        FROM BAKS PERSPECTIV
1.    Projec Identity
Name                : PWl g-Chaohu Amea Developmet Project
Loan/Credit Number: Loan 2579-CHA/Credit 16064CHA
RVP Unit            : East Asia and Pacific Regon
country              China
sectr               : Agiculture
Subseto             : Irigation
2.    Backgrownd
2.1          Projec Overyew. Th Plhg-Chaohu Area Development Project (PCADP)
was the first Bank Group project in China to assist large-cale sura  irrigation and flood
control. t was also the firs to integrate inent in major water reource infastructure wih
area nd agricultr development investmt. Iheprojectwas Intd  to rehabilitate, Improve
and complete facilities for 320,000 ha of the Pishihag lirigation Project, which covers a total
of 680,000 ha; enhan  flood protction in the Lake ChaoWu area; and stengthen agricultural
support fcilities and services covering a total of 734,000 ha In and aound the Pishhg and
Chaohu areas. The tota estmaed cost of the project at apis was Y 670.9 milion ($263.5),
of whih the Bank la/cret was to contbute 35 pecent ($92.0 miloan). Following apial
in November 1984, 1he Board pproved the projet in June 1985, and the loan became offctive
in March 1986. Project targets were modified digbdy in a mid-term review in 1989. Mhe
project was completed and Bank fid fully disbused in June 1992, after a one-year exesion.
As-built cost totailed Y 1,041.5 million ($273.5 millio), of which the Bank/IDA loan fianced
42 percent ($117.4 million becaue of the dqpeation of the do   rlative to the SDR).
2.2          P y Context A primary poicy jusfcationfor the project was to raise grain
production, mainly rice. At the time of pprasal in 1984, grain production in China had risen
to over 400 mIllion tODns compared to 113 million tos in 1949. Because  i's irrigated areas
are more than twice as productive as raind ae, the expasion of irigation and flood
proection was seen as a prmary vehicle to conthe tat trend and given a high prioriy by the
govmenr  The reladve surplus and low pries in itenatona grin markets in the middle
and lat 1980s, and the ext  of the posiive Ipa  on grain production oft de houshold
contra  system, the raisig of grain prices, and other policy and ral reform measures, were
not antcpated.



- 2 -
2.3          State policy to rduce investments in water resources as part of sector-wide
budget cuts Inroduced in 1981 led to: (a) reduced invesumets In new ir on system; (b)
Increased emphasis on raisiAg the efficlancy of exiting systems through rehabilat, upgrad
and compledon of Irrigadon and drinage facilities and improved water management; and (c)
transfr of the financia repayment reqirement for operation and manance (O ) to loa
governmes and to Users. (During Iml on of PCADP, his transfer also came to Incude
repayment responsibility for the Bank loan/credit which conibut  to fOinancl problems for the
projazt.) War conservacy projects In the 1960s frequently involved State contruction of
major storge or divesion dams and main coveyam  sysm, lean construcion of wate
distrion networks to local governments which were generally weak fincily. Widtout
adequat local xnding, the common result was failure to complet the distributon systems
propely and substndard designs and construction. Compounding these capital Invesaent
deficiencies were shortages of loil funds avaiable for O&M, even where the original struclures
were satisfactory. These factors contributed to generally low irigation efficiencies ransng from
about 30 percent to 55 prcent for surface system, and frequently system cold  t supply thdr
full command area. This was the uituation in Pishlhang, where only about 533,000 ha out of
the 680,000 ha comm;nded could aually be served.
2.4          Flood protection for agricutur and industri enrrises has also long been
considered a key policy for economic growth. However, devclopmeit of flood pwtecto
facilities in the Chaohu area had, like irigation, suffered from lack of funds. Substnta maJor
flood control works had been constructed over the last three decades to improve the ChangWiang
(Yangtze) River dike, main drain of the area (Yuqi River), and flood Legulation faciities of Lake
Chaohu. This erabled increased flood storage in Lake Cbaohu and ecpansion of culdvation and
irigation for large areas. However, flooding was still a serious problem in 10 years out the lag
30 when high stages of the Changjiang River and Lake Chaohu occurred iulaneously,
selective breching of dikes protectng these areas. Simily, the flood retention
drawdown requireme  for Lake Chaohu often meant shortage of irrigation water during dry
years. Studies had been prepared for additional maJor works to enhance flood protctn and
water supply for irigao  However, local fiuds available were insufficient to cary them out,
and Statoe fud were not allocated in the Plan for these purposes.
3.    Projet ObjetIves and Descripion
3.1          Project Objetives. The primary objective of PCADP was to Ics the
production of crops and other agricultr  products in cental Anhui Province though
imrovement ofthe Pig Irrigation Project, constuction of flood control facilties associated
with Lake Chaohu, provision of rural inascture and sort services, and    r    of
agement capabity for irrigation and flood control fatie. A sendary objecdve was to
Increase rural income, market for agricultural products, and rural eploymen qpportnes
tough provision of credit for financig development of local eepies, maiy Townhip and
Village Eneri    V).
3.2          Project Descripdon. The project comprised the following compon:
(a)    i   vrnent of irrigation fadliti 3erving some 320,000 ha In the existing
Pishm    rdgation Project through  Jdannae excavaion, 
constcion and strengthc JIg, selective canal lining, consrction and



-3 -
reconstuctionof canal strmctures, and onstrucdon and improvement of on-farm
ditch. and drains;
(b)   impvemen of flood control proton for 150,000 ha, drainage on 23,000 ha,
and Irrigon water supply benfting about 220,000 ha through construction of
flood  anels, conutol gates, and pumping stat  in the Chaohu aroa;
(c)   strengtening of other rural Infrastructure and agriculural support services over
an area of 734,000 ha (stated as 918, 10 ha in the SAR due to the difference
between local and standard mu size) toougbh, Inw all, construction of rur
roads, rural electrificatin, county agricultural centers, local agricultural schools
and research facities, 8ed procsing facilities, and fish hatcheries;
(d)   provWion of rural credit fir livetock taisimg, aquacultre and arpcesn;
ad
(e)   te cal assistance and tang to hmprove management and operatal
efficiency of the irrigation ?d flood control systems and improve the planning
design of on-farm woras.
3.3          Projec Costs. Esimaed project costs at appraisal totalled Y 670.9 million
(M263.5 million), of which the Bank/lIDA financed about 35 percent comprising an IDA credit
of SDR 75.7 mUion ($75.0 milion equivalent) and a Bank Loan of $17.0 million. Water
resource components (Pishhang rrigation and Chaohu Flood Control) comprised about
70 pacnt of base costs. Forei3n expendiur totalled &mut 32 percent of estimated bas costs.
The table bdow ummaizes _tmated project cos by  mponent
Local Forein Total Local Foreign Total % of bass
- (Y million) -     -    ($ million) -     co
Pishhag Irrigation          142.8  59.6 202.5  51.0  21.3  72.3          36
Chbou Flood Contol          147.0  48.9  195.8  52.5   17.5  69.9        35
Rura Developmaet             67.4  60.0  127.4  24.1   21.4  45.5        23
Rurl Credit                  13.8   5.6  19.4   4.9    2.0   6.9          3
TainigA                      14.3   5.3  19.6   5.1   1.9    7.0          3
Base Cost                 385.3  179.4 564.7  137.6  64.1  201.7    100
Contingenies              77.5  28.7  106.2  44.1   17.7   61.8       31
r*1 Project             A=t 42   208. au   181    MA   Ma 265



-4.-
4.    Project Deand az n
4.1          Pepaton, Conept and Dedg. n general, the projec was thicaly wel
prpared and its scope and scal were appop      an with  the tehical caabUiies of the
implemenng agencies. The primary componens, Pishihang and Chaohu, had been prepared
technically in det   several years before and wer clear In desig  and concept. However,
compared to previous Bak-suppord water conservancy pojects, mainly the North China Plain
Project (Credit 1261-CHA), PCADP Project wa large, extenive, comlicated and innovative.
It was the firs project to assist surfc Irrigation financed by the Bank in China, and it covere
about half of one of the largest sue Irrigon schomes in China. It Livolved designp md
construction of large works for one of the major flood ontrol fclides aWong the Chaillang
River. In total it was vead over Lua  and Cbaohu Prefectus and HN.  municipality,
covering all or parts of seven coundes in LuAn, four countie and a one municipat  in Chaobu,
and three counties and the municipality in Hefe. t comprised five indepe t mponent for
which Implenon by many separte departmens an  bureaus at different lvels of
govermet had to be coordinated ad itgrated. It included a number of slt_
imvaonsrelatedto impl-    n            ent, system management, compebidding and
coracing, tecical design, and project finfcng  and conributions. And it was the fist
large-scale, foreign-fnded project in Anhui. In short, although the project was technicaly wel
designed and prepared and all the componenht proved to be important and viable, it was a
difficult project to manage and Implement.
4.2          Undestanding of Project ConcWt and Deign. The tecical concepts and
deig of the Project were well undertood, as the moor componen had been prepared several
years aiier and the implentig agencis had undertamn sidmilar worms before. The project
concet was wel understood by governmet and frmers alike. This dear undsag was
evidenced by the volunary mobilization of some 300,000 farmer beneficiaries for Pishiag
constriction plus another 300,000 for Chaohu. However, the inst onal concepts and design
of the p   .ir* especily for project management and countrat fiancing, were not well
understood or established withn the goverment or among the beneficiaries bere
implementation started. The rural credi component was well undetood and implemeed by
the Agricultral Bank of China (ABC), as k followed stadard procedures aready established
for Bak support of ru  credt.
4.3          OrTtion and                  Ihe project was Iially conceived as a water
conservany project. However, when the mangem    system was set up on that basis, it proved
usatisfactr. The project was too large and complex. Inly MWR considered  a  should
be implemented through the primary provica line agency, the Anhui Water Resources Bureau
(AWRB). The main nvestments were i water resources and were very large, and the fell
resures of AWRB would hve to mobilized for he   plementatio   However, the project
;dso included aea development, and t was necessay to implemt the rural development and
agricultal spport components in lose coordiation with the wat resource components. Ihe
Bank theefore considered that a cordoinatg grup was needed to provide itegratd
managemenlt, along the lines of the North China Plain ProjecL Project design per the SAR
iuded establishment of a Stering Comme and a Pfoject Managemet Offic
(PMO) for each level of govement, to be directly respondble for implem on of all
cpe; the PMOs were to be    bished In AWRB offices at vious lvels from the
Province down to th counttowshlp. The PMOs were to coordint implementio and in
effect would be respunsble for iL The prvicia Sterng Commitee was chaired by a Deputy



Govenr and comprised of line agency heads; it would provide policy-level guiance and
coordination. This patten had proven effective in the North China Plain Project.
4.4          Even before the project began to Implment however, it was clea that thie PMO
concept was not workable in this case. In the North Chin. Zlain case, almost all componns
were under the Agriculture Mimistry which enabled unified manaement, whereas in this project
irigation and flood control were under AWRB wbile rura development such as agricultural
extension, support services, forestry, etc. were under the Agiculture Bureau and in addition
rural roads and electrification had to be completed by their respective burea. Further, with
the State policy of pushing Bank/lDA loan repaymet down to the lower levels of govemet,
AWRB as a tehnical line agency was not in a position to arrange or ensure loan repayment by
the benediciaries, and it had no revenue authority.
4.5          A Comprehensive Office in place of the PMO was therefore established at the
provincW level to monitor and coordinate implemet by the various bureaus. Resposibility
for local level implementation and contibutions (abor an counterpart fund mobilization) was
devolved to the  ounty and towntip governments. In general, the Comprehensive Office
functioned as the secretari for the provincial Steering Commitee, which in effect becam
responsible for overall implementation. The Steering Committee defined the tasks of the line
agencies and put direct implementation responsibility onto Ce appropriate bureaus which were
monitored and coordinated by the Comprehensive Office on behalf of the Steering Committee.
Similar Comprehensive Offices were established at lower levels down to the county level to
monitor and coordinate (and organize) acta inmplementation and construction by the offices of
the various bureaus.  These offices were under the overall guidance of the Provinci
Comprehensive Office, as directed by the Steering Committee. Once constitted, ti  patter
of organization for implementation proved effective. However, it took time for this system to
reach full operational capability, which delayed implementaton start-up.
4.6          Project  iFnng. Similarly, althugh the genr project financig plan wa
specified at appraisal, the total impact and drain on local financial resources was not appredated.
At appraisal, collectives and firmers were expected to contribute nearly 30 percent of total costs,
local and provincal goveraments another 27 percent, and the Bank 34 percent. At project
completion, however, collectives and farmers had actually contrt direcy44 percent of total
(doLlar) cost, and local govrnments only 9 percent, while Bank finacing acounted for
42 percent.
4.7          The burden at the local level, and therefore on farenrs and collecves, was
compounded by State policy that required repayment to the State of the Bank/IDA loan by the
Prvince, and hence the counties and townships, in hard currency and on somewhat harder terms
than the Bank/IDA loan itelf. The burden was subsntially worsened with the devaluation the
yuan, which fell from Y 2.8/S at apprais to Y 5.4/$ at completion and averaged about Y 3.71$
during the project period.
4.8          Thus, at completion, the total burden at the local level-local governents and
collectives and farmers-was some 95 percent of total project costs in dollar terms. Of this, the
farmers' share was 86 percent, comprising their 44 percent direct Oabor) conution plus
42 percent financed by the Bank/IDA loan which they will have to repay. Becuse the primary
revenue base of the counties and townships is agriculture, and most of the counties are lready
in deficit, almost all of this burden is now being allocated to collectives and ultimy to the



-6-
famers. Although midgatd somewhat by eliintion of governmen amistave control on
grain pries, the tota contribuon requWired fom famers i subantial.
4.9          The heavy fnancW burden on already weak coundes proved to be a s
impedimnt to implmenon, and cod affect long-tem suslnabgity of the project If it
Inerer with adequat buding for O&M. At appraisa, most of the countes were classfied
as povety coundes. During              their finial position weakened furer, and
almost all had great difficulty in providing the necessary counterpart funding on schedule.
Delay and shortago of counep; t funing was a consistent problem during implementaion and
was perhaps the sile most Importat cause of the one year delay in project completion. To
protec project investmes, it is important to find a way to do-link the weak financial position
of the counies from funding for system O&M.
4.10         Analysis and agment on the details of source and use of counurpart funds for
implementaton and on the repayment burden before apprais could have reduced the coteart
fnds problem, or at least enabled preparation for IL However, the problem of requing local
levels to bear the exhge risk of the Bank/DA loans, for which they were not prepared or
equipped, would si remain. Iha added to the local financi burden, and may have adversy
aected project design and the priority assigned to various components. Local and county
finance officials prefered quick reum, high yielding invesme   rater han nrasuue
becu  of the heavy repayment reWirements imposed by the State.
4.11         Factors A unt   for Project Success.  Project design had specified
establishme tof the SeingCommtee at the provinclalevel.    the end, thisproved to be
a major source of streg  for project Impltn    enabled both of the rroblems disussed
above-lack of a suitable orgalmagmeplan and shrtage of counterpart funds-to
be dealt with effectively. Wi th faiue of the PMO oonept, the Steing Committee becam
de fact responsible for impl_ton, and by its composion it had sufficient audwrity over
the relevant bu s to       hat each bureau permed the assigments allocated. The
provincial govement a  relieved the shortage of coutepart fn  by temporariy absorbing
part of the financial burden on local governmens during implemenion.  he extent to which
these liabilities will finally be reimoed on the counties and ultiaely on the farmers is not yet
clear. However, the deficit posiIon of most counties i unlikely to change in the near fe.
4.12         Innovatlons. ProJect design included a number of importat innovations, in
additon to the hmovative change In project management and organizaton with regard to the
Comprehensive Office as Aescrbed above (see pa. 12) which was instituted ealdy during
implementation. A major invation was the use of LCB and conacts for local construction;
the tadiona pattern was for the imple     agency (e.g., AWRB) to simply assign specific
works to local constucdon bureaus. The use of LCB and contracts reportedly produced
competition which generally raslted In better quaity and lower costs, saving on average about
10 percen  Another inttutional inmovation was the establishment of the project unit in WMR
to help provide liaison betw    IDA and the project. That unit assistd in settig up of the
Comprehensive Office and sent officers to assist in project _insecto  five or six times. In
addion, tds project integrated rigaion investm  wih agrWuural support seavices, In
contras with normal practice in China, which was to implement Irrigation and ariculture
separately with little or no coordinatioa.



-7 -
4.13         lhe project also included Importantteical innovations. Design Improvement
were incorporated into construction of the large Fenghuagjing Pumping Station, and into
rehabilitation and completion of the Pisihang Igaton system espeially wth regad to
communications. ITe Innovations at Penghuangjing proved quite effective during the 1991
season when flood's were severe. At Pishihang, better communiation and water cotrol should
facilitate more flexible, reliable and efficient system opeation. However, project Investments
for improving system management were not completed, which will limit the benefits possible
from technical improvements of the system.
S.    Projedt 1mplementation
5.1          VarIances between Planed and Actua Impleon. Delay in completion
by one year, a total increase in yuan costs of about 55 percent compared to appraisa (the tota
dollar cost overrun, however, was nominal), and dropping of a myjor flood control component
(the Shendanhe pumping station) were the major vaiances between planned and actual
implemenion. These were taken into account and adjusted for in the project's mid-term
review in 1989. It is doubtful that any changes in project design or prepation would have
significandy affected the outcome, with the possible exception of beter preparation related to
project managemen organiztion and financing as described above.
5.2          Overall, the project finaly achieved its primary objecdves despite these
problems. Strong support by the provinci government, AWRB and the Agricultural Bureau
combined with effective leadership by the Compreensive Office and project management,
enabled speedy adjusmt to changing conditions and national policies which affected the
projec  This mimized adverse impacts on the implementation f ce and achievemets
of the overall project.
5.3          The completion delay was due to a number of causes. Some of the most
Important were institutional and financial. It took about one yer to establish a filly fincond
project management orgaizaion and system after the orginal management system filed. The
consistent shortage of local counterpart fnds slowed progress; indeed, one rationale fr te
delay itself was to stretch out ("reschedule") the counterpart fimding burden on the counties.
Excessive "float' due to slow ribsentof expditures added to the cunteat fnding
problems. This was the first Bank proect In Anhui, and many new procedures had to be
developed and leaned, especially with regard to procurement and flow of fumds. Bank
requirements and procedus for procurement of materials and equipment through ICB were
new, as was local coutracting for construction through LCB. Due to the repayment r
imposed by the State, flow of Bank loan funds was through the Finance Bureau, rather ta
rough agency budgets which is the norm for government expenditur; this added another
element of bureaucracy to dea with.
5.4          On the technical side, severe floods In 1991 caused heavy damage, epecialy to
the irrigation works, which had to be repaired. Design and Imple on capability at the
local (county and township) level was overei , compared to the high   d  q uired
under the Bank project. The decision to delete the Shendanhe pumping station from the project
was not taken until late 1989, and time was required to select, plan and carry out the sbtiuo
works, manly for irrigation. The project works themselves wer extenive and wsated, and
some were large and difficult.



-8 -
5.5          Dufg IlemeIon, total costs esal    fom Y 670.9 million in the SAR
to Y 1041.5 million (in doll, however, the cost esc on ws only about 3 percen). Ihe
large hicrea  In yun costs was due Imay to devalon of the yuan, more rapid price
escaation than exected (local Ifaton averaged some 18 percent annually between 1987-90,
compared to 3 percent assumed at appraisal), Increased costs for matrs and supplies with
market prices rather than fixed state prices,  eased uni cost for labor, delay in project
completion by a year, and underesma  of te quantiy of earthwork required for sevr
componens. Except for the las. em, these facors were largely beyond the control of the
project or the provincial govenmen. Despite the yun cost Increases, the project was completed
eentally as planned, except for the Shendanhe pumping station which was deleted.
5.6          The Shendarhe pumping station was deted after further analysi sowed that
its costs wold be high compxred to its econom  benefits. At the time of apprais, It had been
considered by the Province as the first phase of a project (unrdated to PCADP) to transfer
Yangze River water t the Huai River basin for new irrigation and urban waer supply, but in
late 1988 the Stae decided nt to include tiat project in th Eighth Plan. Although Shendahe
would provide flood protection benft in extm  floods, the provincia governm   did not
consider the pumping staton justified at this time wihout the irigaton benefits as well. In
dition, the State did not contribute to the flood protection works, unlie irrgation, and with
the already severe problems of increased costs and the shortage of local counepar fundig,
pvncil and local resources wer stretched to the limit. Ihe Steeing Commie therefore
decided to posone the pumping stationa  substte five Irriation subprojects in is place.
5.7          Ac_ons, Dedsions gnd Fators wich Affected   plo. The main
acto  and decions Impacing on implementation were the State decisions to require lo
repayment by provina and local governents, promote a market economy, and exclude from
the Eihth Plan the intebasi wter transfer scheme for which Shendanhe pumping station was
a key component These are all broad policy decisions which were justified on nadonal grounds
and could not bave been avoided or, in the context of this ptcular project, foeeen. Project
management had to adjust to them, and project implementation plas were revised accordingly
in a mid-term review in 1989. No other actions or decisions by the Province or project
management would have significany mpgated the Impact of thes canges.
6.   Pljct Resuls
6.1            lnnl  Tare.  The project geraly achieved the objectives
specified In the SA   For Pihang, couction of main canal, branch cl and lateral cn
struct     and earthworks were on avera  140 pecent and 190 percent of SAR targets,
resweively. For Chaohu, constcton of earthworks and stuctures were well above SAR
target, and the FenghuaWing Pumping Station was complted per design; the Shendanhe
Pumping Sttion was dropped for economic reasons. ITe area development components
(includig rur   ads and ectificaon) eeded SAR tgets substailly, especially for the
smaller components like seed prosing facites, fish nurseries, and livetock breeding. Rurad
credit was prvied for S4 subprojects-43 agmprocessing TVEs, 10 fishery and animal
husbandry TVEs, and one animal husbandry state enterpie. 17 subprojects have made early
rqmyo      of their loans; two subrojects failed becas of maagement ad marketg problems.



.9-
6.2          'he main dwvons from SAR targets concer t  Shendanhe pumping station
(deleted), on-fam works (25 percent hortIl), costuction of tie Pishag water control
centers, establishmen  of the Cbaohu Flood Conrol Center and facilities, and compleion of the
management studies (curntly In draft) and technical assitce fo Pishihang and Chaohu.
ProvinW funds have been budgeted for AWRB to complete the on-farm works and the Flood
Control Center and fities duing FY93, and the govermnt has assured da the sudies will
be completed. In addito  some 17 percet of the work remaining on Pishihang laterals and
sublaterals and 8 percent on earthwork for Niudahe and Xihe are scheduled for completion
durig ths year.
6.3          The shortl in compledon of the manage  sdies and fWities, technical
aistance and t       components have long run implicatons, as these activities were intended
primaly t promote bett oper ationa pefmance in the futre. The maagement studies for
Pslhg and ChaMou wen not completed by project dosing, althugh preliminary report have
been submitted as requied. Ihe studies and technical asistac were expected to define
efications, reqiret and opeating plans for these  em  which would then be finced
der the project, and the project included fiacing for cmica, compute, buildings
and faities for the magement centers for Pishiag and Chaohu. At project closure,
however, the studies and management filitites had n  bee completed and the equipment (e.g.,
cmputers and communiations) had not been procured. Improved techniques, eqipment,
commuications, and management ifmation support are Importa  to make best use of the
large capital investments under the project and dws d provide sbsil performance gains
with readvely smal invsten. Similaly, provisions for  tng and specialized consulting
services were substantally underuilized compared to the SAR. Th"ese "*software and human
capitalT invesments evidently did not cary a sufficiently high priority dun iple Ai
However, the Province aporn  to the monogement studies and faites and
equipment and expect to complete them with provincial fuds.
6.4          Agrc1ultul Beneflts. In term  of agiuur  output, overal crop  ensity
exceeded aps  estimates slghtly. Yields and poduction fDr all crops were well above the
*wWhout project case assumed at appraisal. However, for most crops they were margsinally less
ta apprais  estimates a fiamers diversified to animal husbandry and rAce  inputs in
response to lower market prices in recent years, especily for rice. Ihe value of production for
animal husadry substantially exceeded SAR dmtes. ibis value incease is due in part both
to project animal husbandry actvities and url support (including roas and electification) and
als tO increased lirgated productivity of food and feed g . It also reflects the response of
farmers to reducei crop price and profitability for rice in recent years with the elimination of
centra goverm       conol of grain prices. Tlmber production (cure  and potentia) also
sustntaly exceeded SAR es_a.
6.S          FaoodControlBenfits. IheLaeChaohuflood   p ocomponprvided
large benf  during the castrophic 1991 floods. Ith main pumping station, Fenghuanhing,
was newly operational at the time, and the Nidanhe Diversion was opeatonal at about half of
design capacity. AWRB estmates dtat, even widt these limitn, the damage avered exceeded
some Y 700 million, compared to the total costs for the componet of some Y 350 milion. lbe
PCR eoomic analysis incudes only the annualized value of those beneits based on flood
recurnc probabilities.



- 10 -
6.6          Economic Rate of Return (ERR). Despite a substantial decline in projected rice
prices, the economic analysis of the project upon completion shows a healthy ERR of 27 percent,
compared to 36 percent at appraisal. The actual physical achievements at full development (e.g.,
yield and irrigated area increases and flood control benefits) almost equaled SAR estimates,
despite lower farmgate prices for rice in recent years and the Impact of the 1991 floods. In
general the value of livestock production and products was significandy higher than esmated
in the SAR, which helped to compensate for reduced returns from crop agriculture. ER and
switching values (assuming a 12 percent annual discount rate) for major components are shown
in the table below.
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETN AM SWITCING VALS
ERR (%?1 -it             iu (1)
SAR   PCR      Costs up    Benefts down
P    _ang Irrigation                   33.0  25.6       33.0         25.2
Chaohu Flood Contol                    34.0  27.5       40.5         28.7
Support Service Area                   46.0  30.4       32.0         24.3
Total Proiect                      3I0                _
?.    Projed Sustalnablity
7.1          Pishbang was designed for an economic life ot about 25 years, and Cbhohu
about 50 years which is normal for flood protection facilities in China. Net benefits from
Pdishihang Imvestments should be susinable at currently planned levels. O&M is adequa, and
water charges are collected in line with curet policy and are sufficient to cover aepected O&M
costs. However, for Chaohu flood conrol facilities, there is no system for charging for flood
protection and recovering part of the very large flood protection benefits from the beneficiaries.
Periodic local labor contrbutions can cover some costs, but there are major cash costs for
operation of the pumping faiities and river dredgng to maintain diverion capaciy. The
problem of cost reovery for flood protection facilities is a nadonad issue, and it will probably
have to be resolved at the nationa level rather thn for Chaohu alone. In the inteIm, however,
it is esenti ta proviiat and local govements budget adequaely to cover O&M of these
facies.
7.2          For is=, the basic sustanability of the system at current (full developmen)
performance levels is not in question, but long run performance capability and adjustmet to
caging fumre conitions is. Much of the technical upgrading under the project wM provide
the capabilty for better performance and more flexbilty, but the measures to   egi
management as envised under the project have barely begun. These measures are eusenal
to gain maxImum advantage from the capital investments.



7.3          A key mangement issue concerns responsibility, authority and acountability for
peformance of the irrigation system as a whole. Although O&M management was not deat
with in the project, it will be critical to improving future system performance, along with the
physical investments.  At present management is famented among diffrent levels of
govnmet-towships, counties, prefectres, and the Province. Whenever a cana Crosses an
I*I i I t9ve boundaryib   for O&M of that canal (regardless of Its size) pas  to
the next higher level. This means tuat the same type of canal may be managed by two diffrent
levels of govemment, and that the management requirements of the canal are not necearily
lined to managemen capacity available which general increases at higher levels. This makes
it difficult to maintain consistent management standards throughout.
7.4          Moreover, main canals are typically controlled by the provincial level (the
Pishihang General Adminon), branch and subbranch canas by the prefees and
mnicipalities, and laterals and sublaterals by the counties and townships. However, there is no
overal entty with the authority at all these levels to ensure fficient management of the entire
system, the responsibility to maintain uniform stadrds of O&M  througbout, and the
acountabfiiy for system management and performance. A more unified model, which could
sdll retain the beefits of decentralination and local initiative, would be to form a sigepose
irrigation district at the system level which would be a fedeaion of individual frmerun water
user groups based on hydralic units rather tan adminiaive boundaries. Individual hydruic
unis and the distict would be financially self-sufficient The irrigation distt and hydraulic
unis (farmer groups) would be managed for overall system efficiency and equity, rather than
on the basis of    ative (e.g., county) boundaries. The distict could function as a
financially self-sufficient enterprise, selling water to the farmer groups which in turn would resell
water to their members/users to cover costs. A major objective would be to reduce the finacial
bnrden on local goverments and delink igation O&M from their weak fian   condition.
There are many cases in other countries where similar decentized insutional models for
rigtionanagement are fuctioning efficiently and could provide examples for Chinese expes
to see in operation.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1          Ten Bank supervision missions visited the project from 1986 through 1991, plus
the PCR mission which visited the project in July 1992. In some cases, the missions included
several members as needed to cover the multiple activities under the project. The missions
adopted a constructve attitude and assisted with changes needed in the project, in addition to
reporting on status and progress. Bank mission support helped with two key changes-the
management adjustments needed as a result of the establishment of the Comprehensive Office
in place of the PMO, and the deletion of the Shendanhe pumping station and subequent
-1016-d- of irriation wors. Bank missions also highighted importnt local issues whih
interfed with progress, especially the shortage of countepart funds, and provided technic and
odher assistn  on standard implementati matters such as prcement and audits.
8.2          Bank support for technical preparation was good and crntributed to good project
design which was important to the success of the project. However, insftional a gements
for project management and project finacing were not fully prepared and agreed before
implemenXtaion, and indeed the terms of central government onlending were not setted at the
time of appraisal.  Tis proved to be detrimental to project implementation (see paras.
4.10.4.17).  Substnti  efforts during supervision were exeed to help rec   these



- 12 -
shortco ins  r'nlcally, the mmngemen problem was due In pant to takin lessns from  a
previous Bank project with the applicaton of the PM10 concept which had proven successfil in
the North ChIna Mlain Project.
6.3          In general, the Bank povided good gian  on project management, effective
use of loan resources, procurement of goods, osulants, study tours and training; reponded
quicidy to queries of the Comprehensie Office and problems eEcounwed; and helped solve
problems. Although it liaised with the project unit In MWR, cunicat with the unit were
not alwas efficient, and at tmes the unit was not sufficiely informed about Bank missions and
could not send staff to accompany them.
9.    Borrower Peformance
9.1          Anu Povince (and the concerned prefectm        ,       counties, and
townships) showed a strong commitment and support for the project from beginning to end.
During preparation, the Province decided to include the Chaohu Flood Control component,
despite a decision by the State not to contbute to that compone; these investmet
subsequendy proved their worth during the severe 1991 floods. In the early stages of
implemenion, ithe Povinc had to redesg the project managen  system and establish the
Comprehensive Office in place of the PM(O aRer fiding tha the PMO concept was unworkable;
ths required estabishment of an entirely new operating pattern in which the Comprehenive
Office, which had little actual power itslf acted as the seciat on behalf the Steei
Committee. Later, the Province had to make mnjor decsions to delete the Shedanhe pumping
statn and chose nbstie  Irigation fclies, and to delay project compledon in order to
reduce the local finncial burden. These difficult decsions we made epedously and
ratlly. The provind goVement as contbuted addiona cunept fundin in pla
of the fncially weak oounties as necessary to keep implenion on schedule. The flexibflity
and pagmaim dmonstad by the Prwince in dealing with these issue was essentia to
projec suces.
9.2          Project management was effetve and efficient, especialy ater establis
of the Comprehensive Office. Uniquely quaified and effective staff were cho  to head Xt
Comprehensive Office, and leadship of the key line agencies, epecialy AWRB and the
Agricultr Bureau, were fuly committed to projec objectives and worked eficety with the
Comprehensive Office.  During impleion, the prwvinci Steing committee, the
Comprehensive Office and the n agencies worked togeer effectivy at all levels to proe
strong, efective leadership and overcome constrais and obstructions.
9.3          At the local level, support was also strng. Some 600,000 people mobilized for
constuction of Pishang irrgation and Chaobu flood potection wor. In many cases, whole
vilages moved to the work site for the constuction season. Tbis direct conibuon by the
beneficiarie toed about 44 pacent of total projec coso.
9.4          At the State level, MWR set up dt  small project unit in the Planning
Deatmet. t provied liaison with IDA and the Pronce, and staff from the unit ved the
project five or six tmes during impl



- 13-
9.5          The support provided t the Banks PCR mission ln Jy 992 by all vels of
govenment was outg. Governmet of ficia woe wei prepad, disussions wer fiak
and exhaustive, field visits wee useful and efficent, and do n  was exteive.
10.   ProJect 
10.1         Working reaiosps between the Stering Committe, the Comprehensive
Office, the line agencies, and the various levels of govement involved were good and effective.
The level of cpation and temwork demonsrd during imple        ion was impressive,
especialy comidering the number of separat components and g es   olved. This can be
atuted to both the high quaity of the leaders involved and the stn highlevel support
provided by the provincial government. Relationships between provincial authorities and MWVR,
and between Bank staff and project magement were also good.
1.   Consultn Services
11.1         Consultants were used for specldized studies. Desig work was done by desig
institutes. Consultants were not needed for geneal project imp- - on sWort
11.2         The work done by consultants for the studies was good. To help guide the
sudies, a joint study group was fomed at the provicia level. Originally, the project included
eatra  consultants for some of the studies. However, tis was consid ed unneessary, and
as agreed wih the Bank, these resources were utilized for local consultants and more study tours
and  t        in foreig countries.
12.   Project Docmentaon and Data
12.1         The project required four legal ageement: the Development Credit Agreement,
the Loan Agreement, the Anhui Province Agreement, and the ABC agreement. All proved
saisfaoy  and presented no problems for Omple ton Oiginaly, prouement of smaller
motors, pumps and cement was to be      ICB, but this was chged to LCB due to the
excessive time required for ICB.
12.2         Preparation and desipg  documents were of good quality and adequate for
appraisal. In general the SAR provided a good famework to establish the project concept and
guide implementation. Documention and data for the PCR were complete and of high quality.
13.   Lessm Learned
13.1         The project provides a number of lessons which may be usefl for futue
irrigation investments:
(a)    Project preparation should inude formaon of  detailed orionaland
staffing arrangemens for impleTi These shouldbe analyzcd and Weed
by all parties concerned befioe implan starts.
(b)    Preparadon should also include complete for aton and analysis of project
finncing plans, includingprojected cuntepart     contributions required fm
all leves (especially coties, ownships, collectives, and fmers) and thei



- 14-
projected ability to pay. The counterpart fimds issue is especially critical at the
ounty and township level, since most are already financial weak or in deficit.
(c)    Local governments and ultimately farmers should net be required to bear the
exchange riks of the Bank/IDA loan and make repayment in dollars. They do
not have the resources for this fimction; the State goverment is bete equipped
to hedge against exchange risks and manage foreign exchange. The present
requirement skews decision making during project design and implemenion.
Furthermore, the repayment requirement allocated to the local levels and fmers
should be more closely geared to their capacity to pay. It is counterproductive
to saddle counties and farmers with debts thy cannot afford.
(d)    The "user should pay" principle encourages local accountability and shoud
continue to be followed for cost recovery in irrigation projects like Pishihang;
In this case, the users share of project costs totals some 86 percent. However,
if users are to pay such a large share of project cost, they must have greater
Involvement and participation in the planaing, implementation and operadon of
the project. User participaton should start from the early stages of the project
and include organization of the users into rrion units designed to ensure
efficient communication and cooperation between users and project authorities.
(e)    Projects with flood protection invesmens like Chaohu should include
arrangements for recovery of flood protection costs. Cost recovery should at
least cover O&M.
(f)    ligaion projects should include measures to develop and establish a uniied
model of irrigation system management which provides for the necessay
authority, responsibility and accutabiliy to ensure efficient and equitable
opeaton of the system as a wbole.  The measures should also promote
decentralization and local iniatve.  At present, O&M  management is
fragmented between the various levels of government. One possible model is
a unified, financially self-sufficient irrigation district at the system level which
would supply water to hydraic operating units at lower levels (e.g., 'water
companies" managed by farmer groups).
Og)    Expanded use of LCB and contracting for local irigaton works should be
included in fit  irrigation projects.
()    Provisis for institonal support to streg        engine     design, quaity
control, monitoring capability, and inf aton management (including at the
township and county levels) should be built into irrigation projects. In addition,
projects should also make specific provisions for more direct farmer involvement
in decison-maling for local level design, layout and implementation.
(i)    Commissioning procedures used for irrigation projects should be strengthened.
A commissioning period should be specified for all components and subptojects
(e.g., a lateral) during which time modifications would be made to correct
deficiencies, complete minor works, and meet operational specifications. A
spcific budget line for commissioning should be included in project costs to



3.
El.



- 16 -
PART II: PROJECT  VIEW FROM
BORkOWER'S   EC
1. PROJECr IMPLEMENTATION
1. PROJECr SIZE
Plshihang-Chaohu area development project, which was flnced World Bak loan and
the domesdc cotrpa  fond, was a larg-scale projec for Infastucuo  of water conservancy
and agite in A"  provn  during 7th five-year deome  perd.
Ihe project covered the middle and weter parn of Anhul, including 13 couwti and
municipalities, which are Luan, Shouwdan, Huoqiu, Huoshm, Jinzhal and Shucheng counties in
Luan p_efe   , Wuwed and Hansa counies and Chaohu municipality In Chaohu preecture,
and FeLix and Changfg counties in Hefel municipality.
total projeat investmet was 985.52 mfillion yuan whic. are lised as follows:
Wodd Bank loan: (equivalet to)   411.28 million yuan
MNistry of Water Consevancy
& other Departmets:               62.24 million yuan
Anhui Provincal Govement:         88.30 nillion yua
Counties:                        116.26 million yuan
Labor lpt                        304.44 milion yuan
Of this tol investmt, 722.58 mIllion yuan wer used for watr consvcy component,
177.12 million yua  br agicultur component, 3.6 mIlion you  for project managem  cost
and the remaing part was paid for interest.
2. PROJECr CONTENTS
The projec was divided into two componet: water conseanc  and agricultu
developmen.
Water conservancy componet included the rehabiitaton of Pishhg iaion project
and the hanming of Chaohu Lake basin.
Pishhag Irrigation project: rehabiltation of 6 main canals which were PMhe, Shiho,
Wadong, Waid, Qidong and Shulu; rehabilitation of 6 subman canals which wer   n,
Hechapu, Baoyi, Qngiang, Lunan and Lub1; rhabilaion of 205 branches and subbranches
and completion of laterals and ditches contolling 4.97 million mu; strege ning of some
medium and smanl reservoirs and  bishm     of some pumping stadons.
Chaohu Lake basix oonstrucdon of Fenghuangin Pmping  ation and regulation of
Nluuhe and Xihe Rives, I.e.'one so and two rivers.



- 17 -
Agrilture development component included mru road, rur electricity, land levelling,
improvement of low-yield land, affinostation, animil husbandy, fishery, extenson and usage
of agricUlture credit to develop agro-products processing and other township industry in the
project area.
3. IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS
A. Water conservncy compont
a. Completion of rehabilitatbn of 6 main canis ad 6 submain c s, inclutig silt
cleaning, landslide treatment and contuction of bridges, cuvert and check gates.
b. Completion of rehbilitation of 205 branches and subbranches controiling 3.91 million
mu and compleion of rehabilition of laterals and ditches controlling 4 million mu.
c. Completion of strengthening of 9 medium reservoirs and 365 ma teservoirs(type
L 44 and typelI: 321).
J. Completion of r4Sbrblshmen of 20 pumping stions (over 500 W).
The above mentioned works included the completion of 45.97 million W earthwork,
42000 Irigation structres, 269 drainage struct    and 10300 bridges.
Fenghuangn Pmping Station and its aurte    stuctes in Chaohu Lake basin wer
completed early in 1990. Its insIled capacity is 14800 KW. ts dedg drinage and Iriga
discge is 240 cms and 200 cms respecively.
Niunhe floodway was straihtened and Its dikes were heihened thickened after the
completion of 20.45 mllio    , iludi  construction of Tongcheng control sluice, Xinqiao
control sluice, Baldu highway bridge, 6 ractor brIdges, 109 auxiliary structr, 68 pumping
stations and 407 cossIng structures.  s discharge has bee raised from 170 cms to 480-780
cea.
Xibe River was reguated after completion of 17 million 1M earthwork, inlluding
constction of 1 highway bridge, 25 pumping statin and 125 auxIliary structus.
After the construction of Shentanghe Pumping Station was postoned, the following
works were added nd completed:
1. 6.46 mIllion yuan invested on Haggbei main canal in Shucheng county. By the end
of 1990, 800,000 W  earthwork, 80 intak gates, 1 highway bridge, 6 tra   bridges and
strengthening of 1 bridge had been completed.
2. 6.5 million yuainvested on Fengxi main canal. By the end of 1990, 2 million M5
earthwork had ben comploeed.
3. 1.8 million yun Invested on refurbishment of Chepnan pumping station in Lujiang
county. All the work has been completed.



- 18-
4. 1.5 million yuaninvested on Songan pumping station in Foix county. By the end
of 1990, 250,000 M' earthwork and a mumber of strucur had been completed.
S. 80,000 yuan added to Youfanghe aqueduct in Huoshan county. ihe construction was
started in last winter and finished in April of 1992. The irrgation benefit has already been
gained.
B. Agricultre development component
According to the requirements in the appraisa, the following im  were carried out and
completed:
a. Rural road: 60 roads totalling 725 KM, including 68 bridges, 2150 culvert and 3
ferries.
b. Rural electrity: 1143 KM trsmission lines, 14 substaions and 2 smal bydropower
stations.
c. Land levelling and improvement of low-yield land: levelling of 47,000 ha
(705,000 mu) and improvement of 30,000 ha (450,000 mu).
d. Afforestaton: new nusery 22.22 million saplings/164 ha (24.62 million mu),
afforestaion of 65.383 mfllion trees/14,529 ha (220,000 mu) and side aforettion of 3.24
milion trees.
e. Animal husbandry: increment of fine breeded 3406 pigs, 374 cows, 160 sheep and
42960 domesic fowls, and cumpletion of 45000 MW stucres.
f. Fishery: 17000 mu fish ponds, 21 aquatic breeding farm, completion of 55700 W
structures and production of 918 million fries.
g. Seed: newly construction and expansion of 10 county seed companies and 34 seed
branch companies, 6486WMseed storehouse, 10500 M2threshing floor, culvation of 10620 tons
of seeds/3242 ha.
h. Extension and education: 2 extension stations In Chaohu and Luan pr e, 7
county extension stadons, newly establishment and expasion of 2 agdcultural technology
secondary sdhools In Chaohu and Luan prefecture, expansion of 61  wto    extnion statin
and establism    of 287 township extension stations, completion of buling area of 90300 k4,
Including 2181 new instruments and equipments.
C. AgWture credi
he agricultu  credit amounted to 2.93 million SDR, which were mainly used for
animal husbandry, fishery and agro-product processing in the project area 1By the end of 1990,
54 crdit Items had been established to complet the investment of 70.79 mIlion yuan, of which
the project credit was 29.71 million yuan, with 3.93 million USD drawn from World Bank.



- 19-
D. Material Procurement
According to the loan agreement, 46.83 million SDR and 8.7 million USD were
arranged for material procurement. In tie 5 years of this project, 81 cotracts were signed to
have paid 46.83 million SDR and 4.76 million USD for procurement. The remaining 3.94
million USD were adjusted to be disbursed for earthwork. The procurement was completed
smoothly.
E. Technical assistance and training
According to the need of the project implementtion and approved by the World Bank,
10 special subject consultancy items were given to the domestic research institutes and
universities, 4 study tours to the United States, Thailand, Netherlands and Denmark, including
25 persons, and 4 training tours to the United States and Australia, including 15 persons, were
carried out.
2. BENEFrT AND EVALUATION
1. BENEFIT FROM WATER CONSERVANCY COMPONENT
A. After rehabilitation of Pishihang irrigation project, the incremental and improved
rrigtion area has reached 4.79 million mu, achieving an itrigation guarantee rate of 80%. The
stability of conveyance cross-section of canals and improvement of irrigation facilities have
brought about larger flow and water supply ta before and reduced the loss and waste.
Along 36 KM Shulu main canal from its headworks to Jiepai cana, the water conveyance
ie has been shorned from the past 24 hours to the preset 19 hours after rehiablation. By
the end of July of 1990, the water supply had totaled 183 million M', a& increase of 31.22
million M3 for irrigation xompared with 152 million 1  in 1983.
ITe water conveyance time along Shihe c ntral canal has been shortened by 3 to 4 days
aer rehabilitation.
Anfeng irrigation area along Waxi main canal in Shouxian county has 13 branches with
the design irrigation area of 8727 ha (131000 mu).
Due to the incompletion of irrigation works, serious water leakage in canals caused 30%
water loss and only 60% of design irigation capacity was reached. In the rehabilitation, 4466
structures were built to testore the design irrigation area According to the investigation on 2
branches, 2 subbranches and 12 laterals and ditches within 4 townships, in 1987 before
rehabilitation, the irrigation area was only 3745 ha (56000 mu). In 1989 after rehabiltation, the
irrigation area reached 4367 ha (66000 mu) and the grain yield per mu was raised from 403 kg
to 472 kg, leading to an increase of the total grain output from 22700 tons to 30900 tons, a net
inrement of 8254 tons. Calculated by 0.6 yuan per kg, 4.9524 million yuan were gained,
which was 1.63 times the cost for rehabilitation of canas.
In Luan preectre, after reabilitation, the irigation ara has been increased by 120000
mu, the improved inigatio and draige areas 1.2 millon mu and 30000 mu respectively.



- 20 -
For 120000 mu new irigation area, the grain yield would raised by 400 jin per mu, retultig
ih an increa of 48 million jin. Calculated by 0.37 yuan per jin, 17.76 million yuan would be
gained. For 1.2 mIllion improved irrigation area, the grain yield would raised by 200 jin per
mu, resultig in an increase of 240 mnllionjin, equivalent to 88.8 million ytan. lhe above two
itms are added up to be 106 million yuan each year.
In Chaohu Lak basin, the constuction of Fenghuangjin Pumping Staton and the
regulation of Niutunhe and Xihe rivers have formed a high standard flood control system and
raised the flood contol standard of 2.55 million mu to 20-year frequency standard and the
irrigation guarantee rate for 3.45 million mu to 90%. In 1990 and 1992, severe drought
occurred in Anhui, the scheme c f 'one station and two rivers", together with Pishihang irrigation
project, played an important role to reduce losses in agriculture. In 1991, an extrem large
flood hit Anhui. Ihe scheme of 'one station and two rivers' also played a great role to figh
again the flood. Only Fenghuangjin Pumping Station drained out 1400 milion M1 flood in
more than 60 days. As a result, no polder of more han 10X0 mu was damaged. According
to rough estimate, the damage to polders was reduced by 420000 mu and a loss of 714 million
yuan was avoided.
C. Social and ecologic benef
a. Dispute among farmaes for wat use and waste of labor, material and fiancial
resources have been avoided.
b. The communicaon and circuation between cities and rural area havebeen lmproved.
The economy in cites and rural area has been flourished.
c. The ecologic enviroment has been befied and improved.
2. AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
A. A great increase of gain, oil seed and cotton
In 1990, the total grain output in Pishhg-Chaohu project area reached 4.387 milLion
tons, 754000 tons more compared with the base year, achieving an increase of 20.8% and an
anmual incase of 3.8%, 1.8% higher in comparison with the area wiihout project. Te total
oil seed outut reached 358000 tons, 58000 tons more compared with the base year, acheving
an increase of 18.5% and an annual increase of 3.5%, 2.1% higher in compaison with the area
wiut project.
The yield of oil seed per mu was 87.9 kg, 7.9 kg more compared with the base year,
achieving an increase of 9.5%, 16.3 kg higher in comparison with the area withoutproject. Ihe
total cotton ouput reached 31 millon kg, 11.56 million kg more compared with the base year,
achieving an increase of 59.4% and an annual increase of 9.8%, 3.1% higher in compaison
with the area without project. The cotton yield per mu was 66.4 kg, 24.4 kg more compared
with the base year, achieving an increase of 58%, 12.4 kg higher in comparison with the area
without project.



-21 -
B. Rapid development of smimal husbandry and fihery
In 1990, in the project area, the output of pigs was 25.4 million heads, an increase of
17.6% compared with the base year. The poultry outut was 38.26 million, an increse of 7%.
Ihe total mea ouput was 218000 tons, an increase of 84.9% compared with the base year.
Ihe aquatic output was 37000 tons, an increase of 15.6% compared with the base year.
C. A great increase of total inoome in agriculture and net income per capita for farmers
Calculated by the cufrent price, in 1990, the total income in agriculture in the project
area was 7164 million yuan, an increase of 84.9% compared with the base year and an anmn
incea  of 13%.
The net income per capita for farmers was 451.9 yuan, 75 yuan higher in comparison
with the area without project.
D. Social benefit
a Annual inrease of commercial products supply
In 1990, the project area supplied 1.566 million tons gain, 26700 tons cotton, 37000
tns fish and 210000 tons meat, achieving an inse of 40.8%, 22%, 15.6% and 63%
respectively compared witi the base year. Ihis increased supply enriched the people's life in
cities and rural area, flourished the market. and stabflized the society.
b. The improvement of the life of farmers
The invesiation on 765 farmer households in the project area has shown that compared
with 1988, in 1990, 729 tiled houses, 145 TV sets, 286 small tractors and other fiiaing tools,
107 bicycles and 26 tape-recorders were newly increased. At the same time, the conditions of
education and medical & health work were improved obviously.
c. Increse of tax income
In 1990, the project area submitted the tax totalling 123.62 million yuan to the state,
34.646 million yuan more compared with the base year, achievig an increase of 38.9%.
d. A big development of township industry
In 1990, the total outut value and profit & tax incom created by the townshp industry
in the project area amounted to 145.66 million yuan and 82.45 million yuan respectively, an
incr    of 150.9% and 119% compared with the be year.
3. EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Pis_lg-Chaohu project was staed in 1986 and basically completed in June of 1992.
The constuction practice for 6 years has shown that the project concept is cofrect, the design
is reasonable, the implementtion is smooth, the constuction quality is good and the benefit is



-22 -
remarkable. It is a successful project to have reached the aim World Bank and Anhui provincial
govenmen esablished.
3. EXPERIENCE AND LESSON
1. ORGANIZATION AND LEADERSHIP ARE THE KEY POINT FOR PROJECr
IMPIEMENTATION
A. The establishment of project offices should be based on the actual condtions.
Pishlag-haohu project was different from the North Plain Project and the other
project. This project had its own special features such as large project size, wI4e project area,
big investment and a great miber of difficult construction works. The project scope involved
many deparmes and engineering professions. It was difficult for only one department to
undertake this project. From the actual need of the project constuction, Anhui provnial
governmen decided to perfom  a unified managemnt and leadership by the relevant
departmenft.
In the provincial government, a leading group for the foreign financed agriculture project
Was formed, with deputy secretary of the provincial party committee and vice-governor as its
head and deputy head. The heads of the planning commission, wat conservancy bureau,
agriculture bureau, finance bureau, audit bureau and agricultre bank at the provincdal level were
the members of this leading group to join the diectg and management work for this project.
Under this leadig group, a provinal project office was established to handle the routie affairs
such as circulation of directions and documents, coordinaon, supervision, service and extnal
communication. Th above mendoned 6 provincial departments concerned had its own project
offices to be resposle for the planning, procurement, collection and management of funds,
disbursement, submission of accounts and drawal of money, auditing, agricultre credit and
management of implement   of the water  servacy and agriculture cowmponents. The work
of these project offices was guided by the provincial project office. During the past sever
years, the provincW project office took the following measres to coordinate the operation of
the whole organization system:
1. The regular meetings were held to exchange inforatio, discuss the solution of
problems, summarize the work and arrange the tsks. In general, the overall project meeting
was held once a year, the meeting of the provincial leading group once a month, the meeting of
heads from the project offices of the relevant provincial departmts once a month or even once
half a month in the crucial period of the project implementation. At the prefcture (municipality)
and county level, the meetings for the project were also regularly held.
2. The heads of the relevant provincial department and staff were often organized to go
to the site for supervision, guidance and solution of the problems.
3. Tle staff at the local level were often invited to have a talk about the project, present
their suggestions and exchange information for the improvement of the project work.
4. he infmation brief and the documents were edied and circulated to exchange
information.



-23 -
S. The work visits to the relevant department wer  made to strengn tho
communcation.
The practice has dso   dth such a management method is good, resultg In a norma
and effectve operation.
B. Leadership is the decisive fctor for project work.
Anhui provinci  party oDmmittee and goverment atached greaportn   to
Pidhlhang-Chohu project and established a proviial leading group for the foreign financed
agricultre project to guide, coordinae and treat the important affirs. In consideraon of lge
area and heavy constuction of Pihng-aohu project, the provial party cMMitte and
governmen dedded to add deputy heads to Luan and Chaohu preftu, Hefei municipaliy
and 13 pro:jet coundes specy for the project work. At the same dme, the local poject
leading group, offices and consuction headartes were established under the responibility
system of the heads of preecture, municipalities, counties and headqa . The reponsibility
and ts  were clearly defined for each level.
In the project implementAtion period, the heads at various levels often listened to the
report about the project work, study the solution of the problems and go to the construcdon sites
for superviion and guidance. In a word, they firmly grasped the project csuction from the
beging to the end to guaranee the smooth implemenon of the project.
In the project imple  on peiod, Ministri of water consv , agrxltute and
finance and the State Plmng Commission sen seveald missions to Anhui to check the project
work and render their support and help. It was also an important factor for the smooth project
C. Coordination of the releva  departm    Is an important condition for project work.
Phang-Chohu project was a systematc project involving many departme such as
planning, fiane, audk, gricture bank, aricultue, water   sacy,  mm on,
power supply and environment protection. In the project implemeon, any obstacle in any
deprme  would affect the nmal operation of project construction. In the pat s8ev   years,
the project offices and these relevant deparm    established a good and clse reation and help
each other, to co      their efforts to the projecL
Prtice tlls us  a it is very Important for a project to have a high-efficiency
organizaton whih can operate normally, a powerful leading body, high-quality staff and well
coredepartments for its iplementl
2. PREPARATION SHOULD BE WELL DONE BEFORE THE PROJECr
IMPLEMENTATION
BefJre the project implementation, much preparation work were needed, incuding
eVploration and di, supply of materIas and equipments, fimd collection, cmm
spply of electriciy and water, biddig and cnrctiag, oaizati  of construction tam, ec.
Any Iaequate preparation would affect the normal project implentation.  n g    ,
prpartion work for each component of Pihihanlg-Chaohu project was done early, folly and



-24 -
acvely. But, some wodks wee not well prepaed and their construcdon was influenced. For
tance, becau  Luau prefecur  er consvany burea and some county waer conseanm
bureaus did not have enough desig resource for rehabilitation of laterals and ditches, the design
and review lagged behind, which fected the cosrucdon. Later, they took measures, such as
contracting of design,   loymnt of the outside design resources nd the training of design
persons, to push the desg  nd reviw work to an active position again. For another instance,
the dlayed sie preparatn once influenced the construction of Fenghuangjin Pumping Station.
AU tee facts proved that the preparation work is very Important for construction. Any
Inadequae or untmly peaion will delay the constuction, affect the constuction and cause
the waste of labor, matis and money.
3. COUNTERPART FUNDS SHOULD BE ENSURED
Project onsuction should be gunteed by the sufficient fiuds. Any shortage of the
funds wil ca  thproje constrctonto be csin the air. Since Pishlang-Chauhu project
adopted a form of first submitting the accounts and then receiving the disbursement, he domesic
countepart funds must be first used and then the disbursemet fom World Bank could be
ained. In the ollecdon of funds, the courpart fud at the county level was the key point.
Becas the economy of the project area was undeveloped and most counties belong to
the old liberated area and poor area, the collection of funds was very difficult. In the past
sevea yeas, great dis were made to collect the funds from every possible cane, such as
from county finnce, from agricultu fund and from on-farm works construction fud and from
beneficaries and water fe. Finally, the collection of coopart fimd was basically completed.
But, the burden on the county fince and frmers was heavy and even beyond their capability.
Therefo, for a lae project of water consevany and agriculture development, it is hoped dtat
the state will conott more fimds tD lessen the burden on the local government. Farmers can
contribute labor instead. Only a dhough solution of the problem of funds can guarantee the
project conuction.
4. COMPETITIVE BIDDING AND CONTRACTING IS AN EFFECIIVE WAY TO
GUARANTEE CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS AND QUALrTY
Duri-g the past 6 years, in geal, all the consuction works both in water conservancy
and  ricultur, Including laWe and lky works and single building consatcton, were contracted
on a fixed cost trough competive bidding on an equal ground. The accepace checks hae
shown that the contracted construction works through competive bidding were completed with
less cost, short period and high quality. Some construction works without being coned
though competve biddng were delayed and built at a higher cost.
S. MATJERAL PROCUREIENT IS VERY IMPORTANT FOR PROJECT
Only &h. tdmy supply of materals and equipments cant ensure the smooth project
on. In the past svea years, the biddig group headed by the provincial planning
comission compleed the pmorement task and accmulated the following valuable experience:
a. establfshog a coordinated and high-efficiency organization;



-25 -
b. perming p       m    according to the gu   spedfied by World Bank and In
coopeation with the epet of Wodd Bank;
c. cayg out a large collct amount prur         to reduce the biddig pric and
co8;
d. making predictin of madkt and grasp the suiable proement tim  to obtain the
e. cnsidring dte advace technology, adaptabilky and unhsalWity to sdect the
reasonable technica _ds for eay use, repair and absorpdon;
f aeurging and orazing the en ises in the province to join the competive
bidding for the pur    of promote the imprvemen  of the management and producs quaity.
6. AUDrT SERVES FOR PROJECr CONSTRUCTION AND SUPERVISION BY AUD1T
AND NOTARIZATION IS FULLY PERFMED
Mm principle of audit wa tat acoordi  our releva   w  and acts as well as tie
of Wodd Bank, n orll audk of the whole projedt should be cied out and the
audit rport should be submitd wiot  the requr  time  In the acta pactie, Au
povincal audit burau adhered to the following 3 combinato:
a. A combinaton of the principal audit and th locd audit: Ibe provincial adit
dqmtmet did not only coodne the comprehensive audit but also orgnize th loca audit to
fam a sytmwi ork.
b. A combination of exten   nn md intenl suvisio  The powblems found
in the aud wer reflected by the inteal rport and suitably eqxsed in the audit rpor
submitod to Wodd Bank t cas its attention to them so hat the dmely solution of them ca
be sekedx
c. A combbiaon of rotne and emhaized audit: On the basis of routin audit, the
prvia audi dqetnt orgnized th prefecture (mand cty audit dep
to cry out the emhasized audit over Chngfeng, Lujiag, Luan, Shouxin and Wuwei counties
and Fen agjin Pumping Stadton to obtain the first-hand ifmaion, perform a supevisi
befrehand ad in the constuction proce  and promote the development of audi work
4. EVALUATION OF WORK OF WORLD BANK
In die    --e-Ald-n piod of s ni hu project, the ofcis in Agruture
Division of China    of Wod Bak alwas renderedte atento  cncen, spport and
help to ths projecL As *t  usual practice, Word Bank sent th missons to he projec area
every yea to cbek and guidethe project work, and in th working pros a close relation and
fiedly copaion hae bee ftoed between the eperts from World Bank and the leaders of
Anhui provincl governme  and at varou levels and th staff Of project offices.



-26-
a. Bre the approval of PiSg-Chaohu project, World Bank sat the msion
ompised by Messrs. Smith, Wiens and Tay to Ps_hihang h ation area  rinestin and
appraisl thee t   in 1984. Their thorouh wotk laid a fondation for a correct ppisal.
Dudng their aasa vis, according the requm_ent of Anhui prvincia gover     t and
Chaohu prectr, thdy actively supported the eablihmen of the project to has Chaohu
Lak bain and play a big rol in he water conservany constuction between ChMalang River
and HusIh River.
b. Before the at of the proJect imp l   Wadd Bank sen the  werts to hold
seminars for us about project moniton g and evaluatio finani mmen and analysis, and
appltion of miaome_rIn the project.  hy rendr us th valuable exo per   for the
sg   of the project.
c. In the projet Impleato period, Wodd Bank st Mr. Gunartam and othr
epr to he proect area many tmes tD check and guide the ptoject worL They wored very
serioudy and thoughly both In the office and on the conucton site. Ihey prent  the
guidance both in        otechology and project managemet for the large cons uc
wor  or the on-farm work. For instac , they gvo fallg and swpport about the
of unit pre of bor,        e nto of Shenag  Pumping Station and addition of
5 Orjc of watwnervancy
d. Aftr  the compledon of thei project, Wodd Bank sent a mision headed by
Mr. Rldinger to eamin th completion of the project. During their wodridng tay in our
provic ad the proje  area fw more thaw n    20 days, they held dcussios wth persons at
varis leves, lisned to the report about the project and Wen to the field for many times.
They did not only help us ummaiz, te experiem  and lessons, but also prsnted  eir
vakable opink   anld ron _uddn
e. In the project Imh lm natIo  perod, required by the appraisa report, sv
ovee  study tor and traing were orgazed. Wodd Bank always gave us help in contact
and arangemen nd provided convden       fr thes overs  study tours and taini  which
widen our thining and created chanc for to absorb the good experience in foreg counoes.



- 27 -
APPENDDX
AN ANSWER IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS RAISED BY MR. REIDINGER
IN REVIEW OF PART II OF PCR ON OCT.29 OF 1992
1. Relation between the engineering me_a    and policies and th project benefits
The benefits of Pishihang-Chaohu area developm    project are defined as the economic,
social and ecologic beneft. These benefits were controlled by the engineering mmeur  and
also affected by the policiei. The engineeinmeasures were the constructon of water
coserancy and agricul   infastructures. The policies are the adjustment of gicultr
structure and prices of agrojproducts. As far as the beneft  of a project are concerned,
sometimes the engineering mesmures occupy a dominatng position and sometmes the polces
play a decisive role. According to the investigation, in 1990, the tota grain output in the project
area was 4.378 million tons, 754000 toDns more compared with 1985 before the project, an
increase of 20.8%, of which the ennerig measures mae up 10.6% and policies 10.2%. In
comparison with the area without project, the increae was 10.6%. In 1990, the total ol soed
output in the project ares was 358000 tons, 58000 tons more comrd with 1985 bere the
project, an increase of 18.5%, of which the engieering measures made up 5.2% and policies
13.3%. In comparison with the area without project, an increase was 5.2%. In 1990, the total
cotton outut in the project are was 31 milion kg, 11.56 million kg mor compared with 1985
before the project, an increase of 59.4%, of which the enginern  mesures made up 31.4%
and policies 28%. In comparison with the area withu project, an inaease was 31.4%. We
conider that the great benefits of Pisa-Chaohu project came mainly from the enieern
meaures, not mainly from the policies.
2. Relation between the baefits from water conevancy component and agriculture
componen
The benefits from the water onavancy component and the agriculture  mpon   are
interrelated and camot be sepaated. Ihe implementin of war  conservancy component has
increased the water conveyance flow, promoted adoption of the reasomable Irrigation sstem,
expanded and improved irrigation area and raised the rigation guarantee rate. The constuction
of water conservancy has also widened the flood prtcto arem and enhanced the flood conol
standards. The benefits were reflected finaly by the increase of the yield of grain, oil seeds and
coton (not including the benefits from the agricuture component such as hmproven  of
low-yield land, seeds and fertility). The good beneit In agture  and hiher income gin
by farms  could incease the input on the imprvement of waer consvaq          and
achieve more benefit.  herefor, the befts from the water cnsq   component and the
agriclture componeat are intereated, affect each other and rdy on each odt.
3. Necessity of routine check by mission  set by World Bank in the proJect
Implementation period
We consider that in the project Implementation period, it is necessar, for Wodd Bank
to send missions to ihe project area to heck the project word. According to the practc of the
project implemenion for 6 years, we have the following co       on the Wodd Dank
msions:



-28 -
a. hs msions can sapervise and promote the projet imp    t
b. These missions can strenghenthe comucation and udsandingbetweenWorld
Bak and the loan borrower.  hese misions an help Wodd Bak to know the project prge
In dme, and through the dicussion between the both sides, tho problem  wih ocu in the
proJect implemeion can be solved In tm.
c. These missiow can render direct help and guide In tehnology and in management
For instance, these missions provided a great dea of help and guidance to the riow
of the desig of Shentanghe Pumping Staion, study of modern comm-olcation In Pishihg
Irigaton are and optmization of management of flood control in Chaohu Lake basin,
iof technica semis and overe   study tours and training, study of the
estblishmentof the pojed mona t  system od preparation ofthe projet compledon rt.
d. in h imp       o of PiWsChaohu project, the rdt  betwee Word Bank
and us Wa dose. Te friendly c    ation   uing u  supr wa carded out, which
deepeed the mUal      aI gd promted friedship. Thruh te bard work of the both
sies, the project implemen    was smooth and successfb.



- 29 -
PART El STAISTICAL N
1.  Related BaMk Loans andlor Credits
Loanlcredit title            Purpose                       Approval     Statue        Cosnlts
North China Plain Agri-   Drainage iSprovenent aad           PY8I       Proj ect    PCR    com-
cultural Project             salinity    control    on                  completed     pleted
Cr. 1261-CBA                 200,000 ha for crop pro-
duction.
Gansu Provincial Develop-    Irrigation    component         m7         u n d e r    Satisfactory
ment Project                 serves   57,000 ha   for                   Implem n-
Ln. 2812-CHA/Cr. 1793-CBA    settlement   by   15,000                   tatiot
famlles.
Xinjtang    Agricultural    Irrigation    component          FDB8       U a d * r    Satisfactory
Development Project          serves 32,000 ha for food                  Itplemen-
Cr. 1764-CMA                 and fiber production.                      tation
Northern Irrigatlon Proj-    Irrigation  and  dralnage       1XS8       U n d e r    Satisfac-
ect                          for 200,000 ha In Inner                    Implemen-    tory,   lack
Cr. 1886-CMA                 Mongolia and 36,200 ha in                  tation        of    local
lingx1a.                                                 counterpart
funds
Shaanxi    Agricultural    New/Improved   irrigation         n89        u a d e r    Satisfac-
Development Project          for 125,000 ha, potable                    lmplemen-    tory,   lack
Cr. 2017-CMA                 water supply for 135,000                   tation        of  counter-
people, fishponds cover-                                 part funds
ftg 2,100 ha, 15 live-
stock farms, 9 seed pro-
cessisg plants, and 3
agroprocessing plants.
Shandong    Agricultural    Improvement/expansion  of        189        U a d * r   Satisfactory
Development Project          5   irrigation   sebemes,                  implemen-
Cr. 2017-CM                  provision of Inputs end                    tation
support services, date
and foodgrain production,
livestock development,
grassland    improvement,
arroprocessing,    and
shrimp and fish culture
developmnt.
Hebet Agricultural Devel-   Rehabilitation of irriga-        FY90       U n d * r   Satsefectory
opment Project               tion   structures,   con-                  Saplemen-
Cr. 2159-CM                  struction of 9,950 shal-                   tation
low tubewells, provision
of farm inputs, rehabili-
tation/construction    of
4,000 ha of shrimp ponds,
construction of 700 ha of
fishponds, construction
and expansion of cotton
m4lls, construction of 2
fertllizer plants, and
construction of particle
board mll and paper
mill.



-30 -
1.    lted  ank Loesm  andlor Credits (cont'd)
Loea/credit tAtle           Purpose                      Approval    Status         Comments
Senan Agricultural Dovel-    mproveunt/expausio   of         m91     U n d o r   Satiefactoqg
ouent Project               4  diversion  irrigation                  implemen-
Cr. 2242-Ci                 schemes,    construc-                     teation
tion/rehabilitation   of
17,400 veas, 'coustrec-
tion of draiusge and
flood protection, provi-
ion of farm inputs,
development of 1,000 ba
of fishponds, and agro-
processing.
lrrigated    Acultural   lmprvemntjcoastnacti/l             191       U a d e r   Satisfac-
luten"ificatio Project      completlon of canals end                  Saplemen-   tory; became
Cr. 2242-CHA                drains, pumping stations,                 tation        effective
tubllos, surface drain-                                09109191
aSe, structures, etc.;
provision of agricultural
aupport  servies;   and
institutional devlopment
support.
Tarim hle  Project          Irrieation  and  dranage          92      U a d e r   Satisfac-
Cr. 2294-C                  for 200,000 ha, hydro-                    laplemenl-   tory; became
pmer developmet, agri-                   tation        effective
cultural  and  Uvestock                                @1/26192
support  services,  and
river ecosystem restora-
tion



-31 -
2. Prooect TZtntab1e
Item                                   Date plamed            Date actual
Identification (Project Brief)           06120184               10115/84
Preparation                                 1/A                06/28/84
Appraisal mission                        11/02/84               11/02/84
Loan/credit negotiations                 03/15/85              04/22/85
Board approval                           06/13/85              06111/85
Loan/credit signature                        -                  10/08/S5
Loan/credit effectiveness                    -                  03/03/86
Loa/credit closing                       06/30/91              06/30/92
Loon/credit completion                   12/31/91               12/31/92



-32 -
3. 1OLfU   DbykagwUld
a=hk semester    tSioA1 dgbiaumn                         In4    (OOlOOe -  AMtul as K  Actual so I
endngt                        App               A__ _ _            _   of qpproval  of tot
BAR      CrsRit    LO -oon Ig   Total
December 31, 19S5                  7.00           -            -        -        0            0
Jue 30, 1986                      22.30        5.25           -      5.25       24           S
December 31, 1986                 41.20       16.14            -    16.14       39           14
June 30, 1987                     52.20       33.51           -    33.51        65           30
December 31, 1987                 0.40        38.23            -    38.23       56           33
JuQ  30, 19U                      71.90       51.R5           -    51.85        72          45
December 31, 198                  79.30       64.77            -    64.77       62           57
Jne so, 1989                      81.70       72.60           -    72.60        89          63
December 31, 1989                  7.*40      82.46            -    82.4        94           71
June 30, 1990                     89.60       96.43        3.86   100.29       112          87
Dsesber 31, 1990                  92.00       96.43        9.08   105.51       115           92
June 30. 1991                     92.00       96.43       16.19   112.62       123           SO
December 31, 1991                   V1I       97.69       16.19   113.88       124           99
Jue s0. 1992                        V/A       97.69       17.00   114.70       125          100
W LA data as of June 30, 1992 (ena secoud semester 1192).
Cr. 1606-CaH, SDB 75.7 millio ($75 llon equivalent) at the tie of negotiation, April 22,
1985.
La. 2579-CMI, $17 million.
votes   Loan estaturo  closing date va  extedd once frau Jun 30, 1991 to June 30, 1992.  The
credit was fully d.bvrd an August 15, 1991 and closad on June 30, 1992t the looa  was
fully disbursed (mins $267.27, vbuch vas cac       ) on My 20* 1992 and books vere closed
on October 31, 1992,



-33 -
4.  Prlect Inluomentation Indicators
Component                           Units      SAR    Revised Actual  2 of SAR
Pishihana Irrisation
Main and Branch Canals
Structures                      Nos.      11,687   219387  19,116     164
Earthwork.                     M? '000   159706   23,838  21,641      138
Lateral/Sublateral Canals
Structures                      Nos.     54,848   57,372  57,250      104
Earthworks                     '000 m3    7,465   22,750  22,295      299
On-farm Development Works
Earthworks                     ha '000       395      319     245      62
Reservoirs                     Nos.         530      491     462      87
Pumpinp, Stations              Nos.         569       41     157      28
Drainage Facilities             km          297       15     109      37
Chaohu Drainaate
Niudanha Flood Diversion           km           48       48      48     101
Diversion Earthworks           in '000   17,165   23,800  23,870      139
Structures                      Nos.         207      225     225     109
Fenghuangjing Pump Station       m'/sec   200/240  200/240 200/240      100
Shendanhe Pump Station La        in'/sec   100/150      n/a     n/a     n/a
xihe Canalization                  km          125      103     103      83
Structures /b                    os.           -      150     150     n/a
Earthwork.                     m' '000   16,400   14,000 16,900       103
Rural Develonment
Rural Roads                        km          685      687     726     106
Rural Electrification              km          922      855   1,143     124
Afforestation                      ha       13,405   12,943 149786       110
Livestock                         head       1,828    2,800   39774     206
Fish Breeding                      ha          221      221     779     352
Fertilizer                        tons      709000   709000 809000      114
Seeds (Sales)                     tons       1,513    3,195  109623     701
Ettension (Stations Assisted)     los.         296      246     357     121
Research (Stations Assisted)      Nos.           5        5       5     100
ral Credit
Agroprocessing Loans Lb          Nos.           -        -      43     n/a
Animal Husbandry Loans lb        Nos.           -        -       2     n/a
Fisheries Loans  _b              Nos.           -        -       9     n/a
Training and TA
Local Training Resources Lb       Nos.           -        -      12    n/a
Foreign Study Tours/Training    man-mos.       103      103      40      41
Consulting Services             man-mos*        45       45      10      22
J1 Dropped from project in 1989/90.
/b Numbers not specified in SAR.



.34-
S.  progoCt Costs and PinanoMna
A.  ZgLet Costs
Total cost
( Vina)                        Z of        I Of
A          ved        Actual       Revsed       8a
A.  PlJbans Imam
Mean Canal Structurso                    38.32        119.26      113.85          95         297
Canal Branck Structurec                  18.92         30.93       33.29         108         176
Lateral Canal Structures                 11.61         57.90       64.31         111         554
ESrtDoZrk                                34.54        143.17      130.11          91         377
On-FPrm Works                            48.76         41.60       41.80         100          86
leservoir                                29.60         28.65       41.28         144         139
Puwplag stations                          3.78         16.60       21.24         128         562
Dralnage Structue                        13.04          4.70       15.02         320         115
Manageaent  acilities                    7.42         18.06       15.52          86         209
othes                                     4.62          5.70        5.30          93         115
Subtotal Pisbibsag                     210.61        466.77      41 73103                   229
D. Chbohi flood Control ad Draa
Land Levellinag                          20.35         23.46       23.40         100         115
Nludadha n lood Diversion                61.58        147.52      14.13          100         241
DIversion Earthworks                   42.52       109.94      114.35          104        269
Struetures                             19.06        37.58       33.78          90         177
F.ughuansjing Pump Station               41.33         78.70       79.18         101         192
Earthwork.                             12.93        14.88       11.84          80          92
pumphouse                              15.91        55.44       57.93         104         364
Equipment                              12.49         8.38        9.41         112          75
Shondanhe Pump Statlon                   23.55          0.00        0.00        naa          n/a
Earthwork.                              8.27          a/a         n/a         n/a         n/a
Pumphou"                                8.43          n/a         /a.         n/a         n/a
Equipment                               6.85          n/a         n/a         n/a          1aa
Rib& Caalizatio                          40.88         68.35       99.26         145         243
Zarthwoksk                             36.74        61.50       87.54          142        238
Structures                              4.14         6.85       11.72          171        283
Control Center                            0.00          2.00        0.00           0
Lend Acquisition                          8.20
Othrsr                                    0.00          1.05        1.05         100         nla
Subtotal                               187.69        321.08      351.02         109         187
C. lual        D
Rural Roads                              15.50         28.36       28.58         101         184
Rural Slectrlfication                    13.10         16.24       17.14         106         131
Afforestatio                             15.30         15.24       15.24         100          98
Livestock Sreeding                        2.80         15.16       15.74         104         562
71sh Nurserie                             4.80          9.85       10.41         106         217
Extensiol and Research                   40.90         S5.68       37.44         105          92
Fertilifer                               30.00         34.64       49.67         143         166
seeds                                     4.80          8.71       10.17         117         212
Subtotal                            127.40        163.88      184.39         113         145
D.  DuSalz4 C2s.&                                          IL9.b4  11.  1
E.  IhIdcand tA                               2.B           6.6         49            74i         U
ase Costs                              564.10        9Z17.7    1041.47          10Z        lia
Ccntingoncios                               106.20
Total Phoreft Costs                     70.9Z        977.Z 6    J41.47          la01U 1



- 35 -
5,  Prolect  c       i
Planned
SourCe of funds                Loan/Credit             Saba                    Flealvu
Agrement    renmt   Amount  Percent  Amount    off"  of
($'000)    of Total ($'000) of La/Cr ($'000)  lReisd Tot"
IDA Credit Cateoorlee
(Cy. -16 -06CHA
(1) Earthworke                    2,804        1      15,119    539    12,463        82    5
(2) Darthworks Nechanical         1,605        1       2,106    iS1      5,675      269    2
(3) Consttionl mad
Installation              20,192        8      15,054     75    19,376       129    7
(4) Materials                    35,696       14       6,839    131    48,629       104   18
(5) lortilizer                   10,700        4      14,040    131      8,197       58    3
(6) TA sad Foreign TralanIg       1,100        0       1,443    131        204       14    0
(7) Subloens for Rural Credit    2,883         1       3,783    131      3,905      103    1
(8) Equipment for Rural Credit       20        0         26    130           0        0    -
Total IDA Credit               7.000       21      98.410    LL    98.449        iM    3
IBRD loan Catenories QLn.2579?
(1) Earthwork.                    2,700        1       2,700    100      2,577       95    1
(2) Zarthwork Mechanical          1,600        1       1,600    100      3,747      234    1
(3) Construction ad Installation 3,800         1      3,800    100       2,365       62    1
(4) Materials                     6,700        3       6,700    100      5,809       87    2
(5) Yertilizer                    2,000        1       2,000    100      2,454      123    1
(6) TA and Foreign TraIning         200        0         200    100         48       24    0
(7) Subloaus for Rural Czedt          0        -           0      -          0
(8) Equ4pmat for  ral Cradit          0        -           0      _          0        _
Total IBiD IoaN               170L0                I ZM00    Am        .000  6
Domestic CounternDrt Funds
central Oovurmaent                19,125       7      14,552      76    14,552      100    5
Local aoverument                  73,400      28      23,190      32    24,360      105    9
ABC                                2,900       1           0      0          0
Collectives/Fanmers               76,100      29    111,160    14    119,220        107   44
Total Countenart Pbad         171.52S      PI    AMmM02      IZ   I.132         106   58
PRR4BCT TOTAL                             AM        42&a    AM    273381         104  In



-36-
6.  Project Re8ults
A. Direct Benefits
.eeet gorted                                       .      pyo1m L.
19S6    I98    1988    1989    lo99      1991    1992    1993    1994       PCU  la
Totl CrOM  Area               1.511   1.596   1.56S    1.581   1.6U_   1.544    4jj_    1.704   1.721   L.738   1.706   1.522
CreM  ntnty                    1.45    1.74    1.71    i.7      1.80    1.7      1.84    1.86    1.87    1.89    1.8        1.66
CMO Arau
Paddy         '000 ha       813.2   817.9  821.9   830.8   835.9   789.    8446.7   852.1   87.5   862.9   885.2   790.4
What          '000 bh       229.3   254.9   262.4   267.1   273.1   256.J   261.6   255.9   250.2   244.5   239.2   224.2
Corn           '000 bh       24.7    24.1   26.9    28.9    33.1    27.4    36.1    37.6    39.1    40.6    48.2    32.6
Other cereal  '000 e         36.3    39.2   39.9    J8.9    44.8    39.4    55.2    57.4    41.3    65.7    74.5    41.0
Iapeaed       0oc0 ha       252.8   300.5   253.4   254.2   288. 1   27.1   503.8   510.2   517.6   525.0  210.5   256.5
Cotton        '000  a        43j.9    44.9    47.9    49.2    55.5    545    59.8    62.0    64.1    46.3   64.8    44.
Crg Yield
pddy          tenth           4.7     4.6     4.6      4.5     4.6      3.2     4.1      4.8     4.8      5.0     4.9      4.5
Whet           tenhs          1.9     2.2     2.1      1.8     2.0      1.2     2.0      2.1     2.5      2.1      2.4     1.9
corm           ton            2.1     2.1     2.1      1.8      1.8     1.3     2.0      2.1     2.2      2.3      2.7     1.9
other cereal   tenth          1.6     1.7     2.4      1.9     1.9      1.1     2.0      2.1     2.1      2.2     2.5      1.6
lapead         ten/h          0.9     1.1     0.8      0.9     1.3      1.0     1.3      1.3      1.4     1.4      1.3     1.2
Cotten         tenlba         0.6     0.8     0.7      0.7     0.9      0.4     0.9      0.9      1.0     1.0     0.6      0.4
Tetal Productio
Paddy          000 tona  5,817.4   ,739.2 3,735.6 5,719.7 3,817.4 3,528.0 3948.5 4,058.7 4,151.0                    .S 3557.4
-het           '000 tomn    442.S   551.1  S54.5   487.8   541.5   306.1   531.0   525.3                         574.1   418.3
corn          '000 tens      51.3    54.8   55.4    51.1    59.0    34.7    71.3                         9 93.4   150.1    43.4
Other cerel *000 ten         5S.5    45.0  96.0    72.9    84.4    43.3   106.1   117.7   129.8   142.4   186.3   64.9
Roposeed      '000 tea      235.5   532.4   202.9   229.8   367.3   287.8   398.5   414.7   431.3   448.5   350.4   301.4
Cotten         '000 te       27.8    55.7    32.8    34.7    49.5    33.9    55.1    57.9    40.7   643.S          9.S    25.1
Cattle        '000 heed      27.1    32.5    58.8    44.7    40.8    54.4    S7.1    59.S    42.5         5.2    50.8    24.1
PIP.          sin head        1.2     1.4    3.2       5.3     3.6      3.2     3.3      3.4     3.4      3.7     2.7      1.2
Ch-en          Wu wd         34.4    34.9    37.4    S9.7    56.7    33.4    55.5    57.6    39.7    41.8    54.5    25.9
buck           ala bird       5.8     2.9     5.2      4.8     4.5      4.4     4.7      4.7     4.8      6.9     4.9      3.5
9                o'000 t     7.1    74.4    75.2    76.9    85.7    85.3    87.2    89.2    91.1    93.0    40.5    43.3
Fish           00e0 tone     49.2    90.7   121.4   127.2   153.0   101.7   102.8   103.8   104.8   105.9    90.8    47.5
Taber         '000 .3       292.1   302.8   406.9   475.1   438.S   472.0   483.7   495.5   507.3   519.1   270.6   262.0
Prdutin Vau
ala Yuan   4a258-8  4,17S.4 4,237.6 4,485.2 S3,86.1 2,742.9  3,963.1 3,590.6 5,649.2 3,834.2 5,886.9 5 ,88.1
Whet          Ulu Yuan      715.1   824.6   745.8   79.2  647.8   338.6  644.9   402.6   756.S   417.8   491.4   50.9
Corn          ala yua        45.9    45.8    39.2    57.7    40.6    23.0    49.1    50.0    52.6    58.2    81.1    27.1
Rnot Potato   Ulu yun        46.5    41.9    45.7    45.7    42.4    26.7    48.3    51.4    54.6    S7.9    47.0    25.1
other cevrl   Ulu Yuau       29.5    32.5    48.0    36.4    42.2    21.7    55.1    58.9   "4.9    71.2    93.1    32.4
Blen & Poe    Uin yuan      114.1   124.9   125.8   113.2    94.1    59.4    97.5   103.S   110.2   114.9   129.1    78.5
Repseed        ain yuan     218.5   311.5   204.9   248.1   517.9   405.7   561.9   584.8   608.2   432.2   494.0   425.0
Cotton        ala yuan      245.5   284.S   233.4   503.6   450.0   274.6   547.0   578.9   451.9   S04.4   513.4   199.3
lAf           Ulu yua       140.5    97.5   118.4   135.7    13.6    92.9   183.5   188.4   193.1   117.8   103.6   408.1
SBef          "la Yuan       12.0    12.9    13.9    15.0    17.6    164.8    17.3    18.0    18.4    19.2         9.1    11.4
Po*           au Yuan       574.7  d44.2 1,516.1  1,S78.7  1,751.9  1,516.1  1,582.3  1,64S.4  1,714.6 1,780.8  1,299.5  1544.9
ChIOUe        aln yuan      222.2   241.5   248.8   269.1   253.5   254.2   255.2   3n.6   292.6   313.1   258.8   145.5
DM*k          Wua yuan       2.7    21.5    24.0    36.1    53.9    34.7    S5.0         5S.3    35.6    51.2    36.6    24.0
ng            Wi yu         303.4   308.7   312.2   319.3   347.2   554.2   362.1   370.0   37.9   385.8   148.1    42.8
pubh           auls Yusa    346.2   455.4   406.8   436.2   464.1   308.7   513.8   S19.0   524.1   529.5   454.0   237.6
TSbr          Mi yun        137.3   142.5   191.2   223.3   206.1   221.8   227.4   2S2.9   238.4   244.0   127.2   132.5
twa Prod"u  Value           7.438.3  7Z7l3 8.731.8  0.220.3  9.119.9  $.$74.L  S9A8.4 3S7jo  9.143.1  9.412.0 8S192.S 6,2ZSf
Iote. Poet period Includes tw yaro beyond elure of loan/credit. Valwe after 1991 are actimted/projected, an are based on ocoesie
prIcet.
Lt Netimated, at tine Of VOL.



-37-
8. *  conomic Imat
Appraisal Zotimate at
Units   *etSmate  completion
Economic Indicators
Economic Rate of Return (MMR)
Pishihang Irrigation                       1            33         26
Chaohu Flood Control                       2            34         27
Support Service Area                       2            46         30
Total Proiect                               2          j, 
NVP Discounted at 12 2                      1 min
Pishihang Irrigation                                 19685      1,162
Chaobu Flood Control                                 19539      19355
Support Service Area                                 1,712      1,383
Total Prolect                                        4,936      3.900
Selected Underlivin Assumutions
Farm-gate Prices /a
Paddy Rice                               Ylton       1,325      1,081
Wheat                                     Titon      1,315      1,084
Maize                                    1/ton       1,184        668
Soybea                                   1/ton       2,312      1,621
Cotton (ginned)                          1/ton      13,130      7,622
Urea                                     1/ton       2,523      1,396
TSP                                      1/ton       1,832      1,166
Rural Labor Price /a&                    1/man-day       2.0        5.5
Exchange Rate                              YT$           2.8        5.5
Conversion Factors
Construction                                          1.37       1.12
Electricity                                           0.94       1.50
Diesel Fuel                                           1.44       1.00
Farm Labor                                            0.81       0.64
ge Economic prices, constant 1991 value,; co.uodity prices derived from border
prices. 1984 prices vere used for the SAR and 1991 prices for PCR.



- 38 -
C. Finacial- Imact
without urolect           With oroloct
SAR             SAR           PCR
Estimto          Estiste       Estimato
Net Incme por Houehold
Pishihag Irriatiou                    1,916           2,329         2,525
Chaohu Flood Control                  1,931           29408         2,818
Support Service Area                  1,789           2,009         2,034
Not IcOme nr Labor-da
ft.hihag Irrigation                     4.0             5.0           6.0
Chaohu Flood Control                    4.7             6.4           9.1
Support service Arab                   3.8              4.3           5.2
Notes On an average, each household has four to five umebers.



- 39 -
D. Studlma
Title                        PUrpoe              Status          Impat
1. Ovewiew of lanamt ad Operational  Irrigation    and   complete  Sot yet mplemented
Control of Chaohn Itaks  hruesein    flood    coatrol
Project                                egytm operation
2. Research on Optiml Control Decisions  Irrigation    aILd  Complete  not yet imlented
for the Chaobn Multipurpose Project  flood control eys-
(synopsis)                             te, operatio
3. Forecasetig of the Proliferation of  Irrigation    and   Complete  lot yet Implar-ntod
Scbhstosaomlasis   Resulting   from  flood control sye-
e9hanWUjeng Irriastion  and Drainage  tom operation
Pumping Station Project (Abstraet)
4. Brief Introduction to Pishihang Irrl-  Irrigation    and  Complete  not yet Implemented
gated Area, lncludlng Operation and  flood control sye-
Macroeconomic by OA                    tem operation
5. Brief Introduction to the Program ad  Irigat ion    and   Complete  Not yet implemented
Implementation of the Radio Hetvork  flood coatrol eyg-
Flood Montorlg  and Flood Control  tm operatio
system in Irriti Are
6. The Study on Optmal Utilizatlo  of  Irrigation    and   Comlete  lot yet Impltd
Surfac     Water  Resources  of  the   flood control eye-
Pshlibang Irrigtion District           tow operation
7. Pelminr  Inetation of Improve-  Irrigation    and   CoWlete  Used In imlsments-
Usut  of  Irrigation  aod Dralasge  flood control eye-                 tin
Caaity  (LuaI   Prefecture  Project  tm operation
Area)
S. Report on Sample Designs for On-far   Irrigation    and  Cmpleto   Used In implomenta-
Works In Hlly and Plain  Areas         flood control eye-              tin
tm operatio
9. A Summary of overall Plannin  of the   Irrigation    and  Complete  Used in iplmanta-
Irrigation  ISperimnt  Station  in  flood control eye-                 tim
Pishibang irrigation Area              tem operation
10. Study on the Irrigation Nethod and  Irrigation    and  Coplte   used In  apl*ena-
Pattern of On-fam Work Construction   flood control sys-               tim
for the lucaotang Branch Canal, Xlao  tam operatio
Sbn Shan Irrigation Area
11. Report on Selectlon ad Testlg of  Irrigation    and  Complete  Used in  IMplnUta-
Water Measuring Structures             flood control eye-              tun
tam operation
12. Report on  Canal Conyance  Water  Irrigatlon    and  Complet   Used In  nAatito
losses Meamet and Anlyals  for  flood control sye-
the Plsibang Irrigatio  Area           tom operation
13. Piehi4han-Chsohu Projectt Standin  Up  Irrigation    and  Comlete  Used In evalmati
to the Flood and Receiving Beneflts    flood control Sys-
tem operation
14. Chabsa  Flood  Control Optimistlm   Irrigatlon    and  Complete  Used In deig
Studys River letork HWdraulle 1Mol,  flood control eye-
Surface Runoff model, and Real-time  tem operati
Flood Routig Optimiatio  Model
Votes  S   indcated the typ  of studles, that Is irrigtio   nd flood control sysM  operIon
studios, not the specific studies to be perfomed.



-40-
7.  Status of Covemaut
Cavenant     Deadline for
number      Subject                             compliance   Stts
DCALoI AreeMent LOctober . 198S.
2.02(b)      Ope and maintan Special Acount        am         Cmpld
for   Parts   A-D   (nouredit
2.02(c)      Open and Mitan Specis l Account       lime       compll
fow Part   (credit component)
2.09(a)&(b)   BC snbloas above $300,000 to be      Raw        ComplIedl  no  sublosu   above
approved by IDA                 o300,00
3.01(a)      Cause Anhul ad ABC to provide        lHO         Complid  dely  In  cotepart
fund, facilities,  ervice  an                   funds
other resoures for Implementing
3.04         Nalitain the Project Unit estA- -W    cIlied
liee Vith 153 with functio_s
and responaiblitiea  aceptable
to IDA
Anhul Proct Amemsnt (October 8. A98SI
2.01         Anhui ilemnt with due dia-            now        Complied; delay  ln  couterpart
sens and efficisen, and provid                   fund
fund., faclties, serwceos, and
other resoures as eeded
2.02         O0lend to UC and eatr ino   _ se                 Comp1d
Subsidiary Loan Aerement with
ABC
2.03(i)      vaintain Steerin  Camitte for         now        Compiled
project coordination
2.03(11)     Maintan   Project                      U.n       Complied; probem  with procae-
Offce for    le tatio  m-                         at cooit
agmet
2.03(i)  1ahe pt               prectr   d          non        Cuplied
county  to  m t    Steelrn
Coemitt  and Pojct Nanagemen
Office
2.08         By November 1 of each year.   Noveer I   Not Provided each year
startin  November l, 1985, p-    eah yea
par plan for proviona of p   -
phate and patasei  fertilier
2.09(a)        aploy conultants for stous on        ses       CoWple;    ofe    Industril
irigtio   and  flood  control                     niversity eplyed
system oPerations,
2.09(b)      Submit to IDA prelimiawy reports          r Sit  Pemia ry rpor  submittd in
of above stus an iTrgatin             196        April 1991
and   flood   control   syotm.
operation



-41-
7. Status of Covenant& (cont'd)
Covenant     Deadline for
number       Subject                            Cempliange   status
3.01(b)(ii)  Furnish to IDA not later than the      lone       COMpled
end of each year certified copies
of audited finaneial statements
for the year and auditor's report
on the accounts
3.01(c)      Maintain separate accounts for         gone       CompUod
expenditures with respect to
withdrawals from the Loan/Credit,
and ensure that the annual audit
lnludes them and an opialon that
the funds were used for the
purposes intended
ABC Agreement (October 8. 1985)
2.01         Carry out Part L of the Project        lone       CaMpli
with due dillence and efficlen-
ey, and nrovide funds, facill-
ties, selvices and other re-
sources required
2.02         Nalntulm  Project Units estab-         None       Complied
lished within ABC Anhui, and
within each of ABC county
branhes participating in Part Z
2.04(a)      Appraise subprojects In accor-         lone       Compl"ed
dance with Appraisal ManuAl
1.04(b)      Submit subprojects to IDA for          none       Covuml     (no subprojeets above
aproval  or  for  withdrawal                     $300000)
authorization,   according   to
provisions of _e Credit Agree-
sent (IDA preapproval required to
finance   subprojects   above
$300,000)
2.05(c)      Submit the first three subproj-         one       Compllid;  subprojecte,  3Woeka
ects to IDA for approval                         Proceesing  Pleat,  song   iuaM
latory, Shanni Straw Nat leatozy
4.01(b) (11)  Furnish to IDA not later than the     lone       Complied
end of each year certified copies
of audited financial statements
for the year and auditor's report
on the accounts
4.01C()      Maintsln separate accounts for         lone       Complied
expeaditures with respect to
withdrawals from the Losa/Credit,
and ensure that the annual audit
includes them and an opinion that
the funds were used for the
puTposs intended



-42-
8. Us of Ban Kaouree
A.  ball
Planed La    Revised         Pima          Coment.
Through appraisal                                     65.8       ws-zuQ.field
Appraisal through
Board appoval                                         13. 3A      sW-eQ*+field
Board approval
through effective-
ness a
supervision                                           74.314     SWsmQ4field
Total                                           153e4        M-HQ*fi.eld
JA Data on Planed and Revised staff inputs not available.
A   Tm Recordfig System doss not capture Board Approal Through Effective-
ness,*'Inputs after Boad apprval are captured udr "'Supervision.,
lc Iaclude. 6.9 SW under LOP (Leding Operationus category elintiated In 1988).
1A  Iacludes 0.3 SW under PAD (Project Adminietration).



-43 -
stop of      onthl/          Dale in  SpocialSeetit   peufonno        Tpes of
project cycle   year  Prsons   fleld   represented    ratin  status   problise
_Relouniesae 02/84         2        5    ansiner                3l/A     3/A
Eoona.st
preapprail   6/84          3        20   Enginee                3/A      3/A
Irv. goalgeer
Econhmsit
Apprisasl      11/84       4        19   Economit (2)            VIA     3/A
Bgineer (2)
Supervision 1  06186       2        S   DCI/ngnr                1        SlW start-up
Irt. gineer
Suervliso  2  02/87        2         4   AS.  Bconmist          1        Ehang  rat chno
Ag. Econmist
SupervIsion 3  11/87       2        6    Irv. Engineer          2        Couterpart funsI
Ag. Econmt                     procurement
Superviion 4  06188        1      V/A   Irt. Enginer            2        Counterpart funs; pro-
curmmt  cost ovrure
Suervion 5  11/88          1        5    Itr. Enginer           *        Counterpart fund. delay
ln detale  desis  for
ujor pmp stations
Supevisio  6  05/89        3        6    itr. Engineer          2        Couterpart funds
loer E14iner
Audtor
uservsion 7  10189         1        2    Isr. Egner             2        Countepa-rt fud
supervision 8  10/90       1         1   Itt. Eine              I        -
Supoereii  9  05/91        3        3    Itr. Enginer           I        Couterpart fund
Agiutrait
Supervisi    10 11/91      2        5    Irr.  I                1        Contart f
PcR Nissol    07/92        4        13   Ag. Eonomist           V/A      C:ounterat funds;  ost
Fla. Anlyst                    overum    nplee
RIo. niee                       amnt str
and     nsttitutional
devlopmnt suport



-44-
C. Costs
Total $ cost   Average $ cost   Average $ cost of field
Stae of             of staff     of HQ activities    activity per mission
project cycle          iwuts    per Mission member             member
Through appraisal
Appraisal through
Board approval
throu effectiveness
Suparvision



