CREDIT NUMBER 1606 CHA
OFFIC.             LOAN NUMBER 2579 CHA
Anhui Project Agreement
(Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ANHUI PROVINCE
Dated                                  1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1606 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2579 CHA
ANHUI PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     &XC-tz.L.                 , 1985, among
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)
and ANHUI PROVINCE,(Anhui).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between People's Republic of China (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-five million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 75,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the/ Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
Anhui agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
B6rrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
Anhui agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Anhui, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and
the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
term "Bank's General Conditions" means the General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
January 1, 1985.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Anhui declares its commitment to the objective
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A
through D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and rural development practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for Parts A through D of the
Project.
Section 2.02. (a) Anhui shall onlend the equivalent of
SDR 2,930,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit to ABC under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between Anhui and
ABC under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association.
(b)   Anhui shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
Anhui and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Anhui shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision relating to the parties to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the interest rate and the repayment
and grace periods.
Section 2.03. In order to assist in coordinating and
carrying out Parts A through D of the Project, Anhui shall:
(i) maintain a Steering Committee, with staff, functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(ii) maintain a Project Management Office with staff, functions
and responsibilities acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
and (iii) cause each of the prefectures and counties partici-
pating in the Project to maintain a Steering Committee and a
Project Management Office, with staff, functions and respon-
sibilities acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and works and
employment of consultants required for Parts A through D of the


﻿-3-
Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Anhui shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and ser-
vices, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Anhui Project
Agreement and Parts A through D of the Project.
(b) Anhui shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the Bank's
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Anhui
Project Agreement and Parts A through D of the Project.
Section 2.06. Anhui shall, at the request of the Association
or the Bank, exchange views with the Association and the Bank
with regard to the progress of Parts A through D of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
Section 2.07. Anhui shall promptly inform the Association
and the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of Parts A through D of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or
the performance by Anhui of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Anhui shall: (a) by November 1 of each year,
starting November 1, 1985, prepare and discuss with the Associa-
tion and the Bank, a plan for provision of phosphate and
potassium  fertilizer  for   the  Project; and   (ii)  thereafter
implement such a plan.
Section 2.09. Anhui shall:
(a) employ,    in  accordance   with   terms   of  reference
acceptable to the Association and the Bank, consultants to assist
in carrying out studies on irrigation and flood control systems
operations under Part D of the Project; and
(b) not later than December 31, 1989, submit to the Asso-
ciation and the Bank, for their review and comments, the pre-
liminary reports on such studies.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Anhui shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting prac-
tices, its operations and financial condition in respect of
activities related to Parts A through D of the Project.
(b) Anhui shall:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and   financial  statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Anhui Special
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consis-
tently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association and the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year:
(A)  certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited; and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion and the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
information concerning said accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof and said
records, as the Association and the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account or the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, Anhui shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with parag'aph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;


﻿-5-
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's and the Bank's      repre-
sentatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Loan withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures have been used for
the purpose for which they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, the Bank and Anhui thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agree-
ment or both of said Agreements terminate in accordance with
their terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of
this Section, the Association, or the Bank or both, as the case
may be, shall promptly notify Anhui of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension tinder the Development Credit Agreement or the
Loan Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿7
For Anhui:
Anhui Provincial Water
Resources Bureau
Hefei, Anhui
People's Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Anhui may be taken or executed by the
Senior Vice Governor of Anhui Province or such other person or
persons as such Senior Vice Governor shall designate in writing,
and such. Senior Vice Governor shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to
the contrary to Anhui and so long as the Development Credit
Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the termination of
the Loan Agreement: (a) the obligations of Anhui to consult with,
and to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records
and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent
that Anhui's performance in respect of such obligations is
rendered to the Association; (b) the obligations of the Bank to
consult with, and to furnish information to Anhui shall be
satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the
Association; and (c) all actions taken (including the giving of
approvals or the granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant
to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken
pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement and in the name and on behalf of both the Association
and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
ANHUI PROVINCE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this           day of    6    198 -
FOR SECRETARY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archi,es of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and aixed the Scal of the Association
thereunto the          day of
19F                         SC    T
FOR SECRETARY


