CREDIT NUMBER 1606 CHA
OFFICIAL
DO C UM ENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1606 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       &   t    %-,   8       , 1985, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and, by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower-and te
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provLde such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to seven-
teen million dollars ($17,000,000) (the Loan);
(C) Parts A through D of the Project will be carried out by
Anhui Province (hereinafter called Anhui) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to Anhui the proceeds of the Loan and part of the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D) Part E of the Project will be carried out by Agricul-
tural Bank of China (hereinafter called ABC) with Anhui's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, Anhui will make
available to ABC part of the proceeds of the Credit as here-
inafter provided;
(E) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of
Parts A through D of the Project before disbursements of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loa,, Agreement are made;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreements (as hereinafter defined);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
Vthe General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Cohditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Anhui" means Anhui Province, a political subdivision
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(b) "ABC" means Agricultural Bank of China, a specialized
banking institution esftablished and operating under the laws of
the Borrower, including, inter alia, the 1979 State Council
Circular and the 1983 State Council Decision;
(c) "1979 State Council Circular" means the circular of
the Borrower's State Council on the Restoration of Agricultural
Bank of China, dated February 23, 1979 (State Council Document
No. (1979) 56);
(d) "1983 State Council Decision" means the decision of the
Borrower's State Council on the Exclusive Exercise of Central
Bank Functions by the People's Bank of China, dated September 17,
1983 (State Council Document No. (1983) 146);
(e) "ABC Laws" means the 1979 State Council Circular and
the 1983 State Council Decision;
(f)  "ABC Anhui" means the branch of ABC established and
operating in Anhui;
(g) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such
Agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term in-
cludes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
Agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;


﻿-3
(h)  "Anhui Project Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith among the Association, the Bank and Anhui, as such
Agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Anhui
Project Agreement;
(i) "ABC Project Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and ABC, as such Agreement
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the ABC Project Agree-
ment;
(j)  "Project Agreements" means the Anhui Project Agreement
and the ABC Project Agreement;
(k) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between Anhui and ABC pursuant to Section 2.02 of
the Anhui Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(1) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
ABC out of the proceeds of the Credit and out of its own funds to
a Sub-borrower, and "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so
defined, which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement;
(m) "Sub-borrower" means a recipient of a Sub-loan;
(n) "Implementing Agencies" means Anhui and ABC;
(o) "Anhui Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(p)  "ABC Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(q) "Special Accounts" means the Anhui Special Account and
the ABC Special Account;
(r) "Appraisal Manual" means the appraisal manual issued by
ABC on August 22, 1984 in connection with the Rural Credit
Project (Credit No. 1462-CHA) between People's Republic of China
and International Development Association;


﻿-4-
(s)  "MWREP"  means   the   Borrower's  Ministry   of  Water
Resources and Electric Power, or any successor thereto; and
(t) "ha" means hectare.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy-five million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 75,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A through
D of the Project, open and maintain, in the name of Anhui, in
dollars, a special account in a bank acceptable to the Associa-
tion, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, this Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part E of the
Project, open and maintain, in the name of ABC, in dollars, a
special acount in a bank acceptable to the Association, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, this Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent


﻿-5-
(1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Development
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1, commencing October 1, 1995, and ending April 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) No withdrawal shall be made from the
Credit Account in respect of a Sub-loan unless: (i) the Sub-loan
has been approved by the Association; or (ii) the Sub-loan is a
free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan in an amount
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not
exceed the equivalent of $300,000, when added to any other


﻿-6-
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit for the same Sub-project, such amount
being subject to change from time to time as determined by the
Association.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause: (i) Anhui; and (ii) ABC to
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreements, all the obligations of each of the Implementing
Agencies therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each of
the Implementing Agencies to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available the equivalent of the
proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of the Loan to Anhui,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and the employment of consultants to assist: (i) Anhui;
and (ii) ABC in carrying out the Project, to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
shall be carried out by each of the Implementing Agencies
pursuant to Section 2.05 (a) of the Anhui Project Agreement and
Section 2.08 of the ABC Project Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 3.04. TIe Borrower shall maintain the Project Unit
established within MWREP, with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Anhui shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Anhui Project Agreement;
(b) ABC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ABC Project Agreement;
(c) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date  of  the Development   Credit Agreement, an    extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
Anhui or ABC will be able to perform its obligations under the
Anhui or the ABC Project Agreement, respectively;
(d) either of the ABC Laws shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect mate-
rially and adversely the ability of ABC to perform any of its
obligations under the ABC Project Agreement; and
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ABC or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are speci-
fied:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section  5.01.   The  following  events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's State C6uncil has approved the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and the Anhti Project Agreement;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of Anhui and ABC; and
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except the effectiveness of
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that   the   Anhui  Project  Agreement   has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by Anhui and is legally binding upon Anhui
in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the ABC Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by ABC and is legally binding upon ABC in accordance
with its terms; and
(c) that   the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement has been     duly
authorized or ratified by Anhui and ABC and is legally binding
upon Anhui and ABC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANMIN                            22486 MFPRC
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /Y7c,/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By I f           5     K;
Acting Regional Vice Preside:it
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of such proceeds to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in
each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the    Loan Allocated
-       Credit Allocated   (Expressed         % of
(Expressed in       in Dollar     Expenditures
Category      SDR Equivalent)   Equivalent)    to be Financed
For Parts A
through D of
the Project:
(1) Earthworks      2,830,000      2,700,000       20%
under Part
A of the
Project
(excluding
on-farm
works)
(2) Earthworks      1,620,000      1,600,000       50%
by mechani-
cal dredges
under Part
B of the
Project
(3) Construction   20,380,000     3,800,000        50%
and installa-
tion under
Parts A and B
of the Project
(excluding
material and
equipment under
Category 4)


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Amount of the    Loan Allocated
Credit Allocated    (Expressed        % of
(Expressed in       in Dollar      Expenditures
Category     SDR Equivalent)    Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Materials      36,030,000      6,700,000      100% of
(except                                      foreign ex-
fertilizer),                                 penditures;
equipment                                    100% of
and vehicles                                 local ex-
penditures
(ex-factory
cost)
(5) Fertilizer     10,800,000      2,000,000      100% of foreign
expenditures
(6) Technical       1,110,000        200,000      100%
assistance
and over-
seas train-
ing
For Part E of
the Project
(7) S-ub-loans      2,910,000       - - - - -     50%
(8)  Equipment         20,000       - - - - -     100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost)*
TOTAL       75,700,000     17,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase the production
of crops and other agricultural products in central Anhui by
developing water resources, reducing flood damage, developing
rural infrastructure and support services, and improving Anhui's
overall capability to plan and manage irrigation and flood con-
trol schemes.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A
Improvement of irrigation facilities serving about 320,000
ha in the existing Pishihang irrigation area, through channel
excavation, embankment construction, addition of control struc-
tures and on-farm ditches and drains.
Part B
Improvement of flood control, drainage and irrigation water
supply benefiting about 220,000 ha in the Chaohu area through
contruction of flood channels, control gates, and pumping
stations.
Part C
Strengthening of other rural infrastructure and agricultural
support services over an area about 918,000 ha.
Part D
A training and technical assistance program designed to
improve the planning and design of on-farm works and to raise
the operational efficiency of the irrigation and flood control
systems.


﻿- 15 -
Part E
Provision of rural credit for livestock raising, aquaculture
and agroprocessing.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.    International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
2.    Contracts for goods to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding shall be grouped, to the extent
possible, so as to permit bulk procurement.
Part B.    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in China may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment and breeding animals estimated to cost not more
than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggegate amount not exceed-
ing the equivalent of $2,000,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of
at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines
and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and
II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and
2.56 thereof).
2.     Construction of structures under Parts A and B of the
Project may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.


﻿- 17 -
3.   Earthworks and on-farm development works may be carried out
in   accordance  with   local  procedures   acceptable  to   the
Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $200,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply;
provided, however, that where payments for such contract are to
be made out of either of the Special Accounts, the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Associa-
tion pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
either of the Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however,
that where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of either of the Special Accounts, the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Associa-
tion, together with the other information specified therein,
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 (the Anhui
Special Account Schedule) or paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 (the ABC
Special Account) to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association or the
Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account or Loan
Account, respectively, on the basis of statements of expendi-
ture. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Sec-
tion 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and


﻿- 18 -
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Such  consultants  shall be   selected  in  accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
The Anhui Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan as set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A through D of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to
Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
SDR 4,050,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Anhui Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, payments out of the Anhui Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Anhui Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Auhui Special Account may be made as
follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Anhui Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association or the
Bank requests for replenishment of the Anhui Special Account at
such intervals as the Association or the Bank shall specify. On
the basis of such requests, the Association and the Bank shall


﻿- 20 -
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit
into the Anhui Special Account such amounts as shall be required
to replenish the Anhui Special Account with amounts not exceeding
the amount of payments made out of the Anhui Special Account for
eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit Account or by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective Categories (1), (2), (3), (4),
(5) and (6), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph.4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Anhui
Special Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment
pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this 9hedule, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association or the Bank, prior to or at the time
of such request, such documents and other evidence as the
Association or the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that
such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Anhui Special Account shall
be made by the Association or the Bank when either of the
following situations first arises:
(i) the Association or the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made
directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement or from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the
Loan allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3), (4),
(5) and (6) for Parts A through D of the Project,
minus the amount of any outstanding qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association or
the Bank and of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association or the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Parts A through D of the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿- 21 -
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
and the Loan allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and
(6) for Parts A through D of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association and the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association or the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Anhui Special Account as of the date of such
notice have been or will be utilized in iaking payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association or the Bank shall have determined at
any time that any payment out of the Anhui Special Account:
(i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association or the Bank, deposit into the Anhui Special Account
(or, if the Association or the Bank shall so request, refund to
the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Association or the Bank into the
Anhui Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made
such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association or the Bank shall have determined at
any time that any amount outstanding in the Anhui Special Account
will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association or the Bank, refund to the Association or the Bank
such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account, or
the Loan Account, as the case may be.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
The ABC Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part E of the Project and to he financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time to time to Category (7) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
SDR 510,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the ABC Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the ABC Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the ABC Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the ABC Special Account may be made as
follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the ABC Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the ABC Special Account at such intervals as
the Association shall specify.    On the basis of such requests,
the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the ABC Special Account such amounts as shall be


﻿- 23 -
required to replenish the ABC Special Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the ABC Special
Account for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be
withdrawn by the Association from the. Credit Account under the
respective  Category   (7), and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the ABC Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the ABC Special Account shall
be made by the Association when either of the following situa--
tions first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Category (7) for Part E of the Project,
minus the amount of any outstanding qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association
and of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to Part E
of the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gory (7) for Part E of the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts


﻿-24-
remaining on deposit in the ABC Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the ABC Special Account: (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
deposit into the ABC Special Account (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. No further deposit by the Association into the ABC
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the ABC Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting
to the Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association,
In vitness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198F                         SC    T
FOR SECRETARY


