Document of
The Wofld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AA 3192 '- U" Z
Report No. 7290-UPR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
NOVEMBER 23, 1988
Country Department IV
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document ha a estced ditibuon and oay be used by recpiens only In the perforunee of
thek officda dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be dbdosed wihout Wodd Bank authoizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       new peso
US$1            =   4Ur$ 11.56 on December 31, 1981
=   NUr$ 33.50 on December 31, 1982
=   NUr$ 43.00 on December 31, 1983
-   NUr$ 74.00 on December 31, 1984
=   NUr$124.75 on December 31, 1985
=   NUr$180.00 on December 31, 1986
=   NUr$279.50 on December 31, 1987
=   NUr$32S.00 on March 31, 1988
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBEEVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AETE                Technical Economic Evaluation Unit
AFE                 State Railway Administration
ANCAP               State Oil Company
ANP                 National Port Administration
ANSE                National Administration for Stevedore Services
CIF                 Cost, Insurance and Freight
DNH                 National Directorate for Hydrography
DNT                 National Directorate for Transport
DNV                 National Directorate for Roads
EXIMBANK            Export-Import Bank of Japan
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
ICB                 International Competition Bidding
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
INAPE               National Fishing Institute
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
LIB                 Limited International Bidding
LS                  Local Shopping
MTOP                Ministry of Transport and Public Works
OPP                 Offics for Planning and the Budget
OSE                 State Water Authority (Obras Sanitarias del Estado)
PCU                 Project Coordinating Unit (MTOP)
PLUNA               First Uruguayan Airline
PNN                 National Naval Prefectship
TC                  General Comptroller's Office (Tribunal de Cuentas)
TSC                 Training Steering Committee (APP)
TU                  Technical Unit (ANP)
UNDP                United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................ 1
II.  THE TRANt-ORT SECTOR ............................................ 3
A. General ....... 3
B. Institutional Framework ....... 3
C. Main Issues ....... 4
D. MTOP's Transport Sector Expenditure Program .......              11
E.  Bank Involvement in the Sector and Lending Strategy .......  12
III.  THE PROJECT AND THE ACTION PLANS .......                            12
A.  Project Objectives and Content .......                          12
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement .......                          13
C. Project Description .......                                      13
D. The Action Plans .......                                         16
E. Costs and Financing .......                                      18
F. Economic Justification .......                                   21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Uruguay from April 11 to 23, 1988. The mission was composed of Messrs./Mme.
Marta Rios, Task Manager and Financial Analyst; Sergio Miouel, Highway
Engineer; Gustavo Unda, Port Engineer; Peter Gyamfi, Economist; and Noor
Rasheed, Financial Analyst. Messrs. Bob Sisson and Luis Pisani assisted the
mission in highway engineering and training aspects, respectively. Mesdames
Leonor Santelices and Brenda Turner assisted in the production oi this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
G.  Environmental Aspects ....................................... 22
H.  Project Risks ............................................... 22
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS                     ..                  22
A.  Subproject Selection ........................................ 22
B.  Project Execution ........................................... 23
C.  Procurenent and Consultancy Services ........................ 24
D. Disbursements .................                                    25
E.  Special Account and Auditing ................................ 27
F.  Project Monitoring and Semi-Annual Consultations .27
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................... 28
TABLES
4.1   Summary Accounts Cost Summary .................................... 30
4.2   Financing Plan by Summary Accounts ............................... 34
4.3   Financing Plan by Project Components ............................. 38
4.4   Financing Plan by Disbursement Category ......................... 39
4.5   Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange/Local/Taxes ................... 40
4.6   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Financing ........... 41
ANNEXES
1    MTOP's Action Plans for Transport Sector Reforms .42
2 The Roads Subsector .49
3 The Ports Subsector .58
4 Financial Aspects .6
5    Review of the Transport Sector Expenditures Program .93
6    The Institutional Development Program .102
7  Summary of Economic Justification .120
8  Montevideo Port Traffic Analysis .131



- iii -
ANNEXES (Cont'd)                                                   Page No.
9   Details of the Implementation and Monitoring of the Roads
Component ....................................................... 137
10   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ....... 141
CHARTS
I.  Organizational Chart of DNV ..................................... 142
II.  Project Implementation Schedule ................................. 143
MAPS
IBRD  20952 URUGUAY - Transport Project I - National Highway Network
IBRD  20953 URUGUAY - Transport Project I - Departmental Rural Road
Maintenance Program - Department of Florida
IBRD  20954 URUGUAY - Transport Project I - La Paloma and Punta del
Este Port Improvements
IBRD  20955 URUGUAY - Transport Project I - Montevideo Port Improvements



URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
I.  LOAti AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrow^r:      Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Executing      Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP) and
Agencies:      National Port Administration (ANP)
Amount:         US$80.8 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayment in 15  years,  including  5  years  of  grace, a:: the
Bank's standard variable rate.
Project
Description:   The project includes high  priority investments, sector reforms
and institutional developmient Action Plans for the roads and
ports subsector agencies.   The major investments would include
the following: (a)   roads:    a highway replacement program; a
time-slice  of  MTOP's   road  rehabilitation  and  maintenance
program; and a departmental gravel roads program; (b) ports:
construction  of  a   dike   to  reduce  maintenance  dredging,
remodeling of the commercial area, upgrading of port utilities
and power supply systems, and provision of cargo handling
equipment, all the above at Montevideo port; construction of a
second breakwater and a water supply system, and dredging to
expand the access channel and the basin at the Paloma fishing
port; expansion of berthing facilities at Punta del Este small
craft port; extension of existing breakwater and construction
of berthing and boat-repair facilities at Piriapolis small
craft port; and (c) technical assistance and training to
support the implementation of the Action Plans. The Action
Plans would  include  measures  to:    (a) strengthen transport
planning  and  adjust   sector   policies;   (b)  improve  road
management  practices;   and   (c)   increase   port  operating
efficiency.
Benefits:      Financial benefits  would  include  the  reduction and eventual
elimination of the ports deficits and the preservation of the
capital stock in the roads subsector. Economic benefits wiould
be lower transport and tranFfer costs, savings from deferring
investments and increased foreign exchange earnings.
Risks and
Safeguards:    The project  would  cover  the  roads  and  port subsectors and
involve several agencies.   There  's,  therefore, risk of slow
project implementation, for which a Project Coordinating Unit
would be established within HTOP to coordinate implementation
and monitor progress. Also, the project's main thrust would be
the far-reaching sector policy and institutional reforms. Some
risk exists that the next Government may falter in carrying out
the agreed reforms. In order to lessen that possibility, the



- 2 -
project  arrangements  include   provisions  for  joint  annual
reviews to enable the Bank to continue to have an effective
dialogue on the implementation of the reforms.
Estimated Project Costs: 1/
Local         Foreign        Total
----------(US$ million)---------
Civil Works:
(a) Highway Component                      76.5           76.5         153.0
(b) Port Component
- ANP Ports                             8.9            8.2          17.1
- DNH Ports                             9.1           13.9          23.0
Equipment:
(a) ANP Ports                               1.8            4.4            6.2
(b) DNH Ports                               0.4            0.9            1.3
(c) Institutional Development Highways   0.5               1.3            1.8
(d) Institutional Development ANP Ports  -                 0.4            0.4
Technical Assistance:
(a) Highways                                0.1            0.4            0.5
(b) ANP Ports 2/                            0.5            2.1            2.6
(c) MTOP                                    0.1            0.5            0.6
Training:
(a) Highways                                -              0.6            0.6
(b) ANP Ports                               0.2            1.1            3.3
(c) HTOP                                    -              0.1            0.1
Total Base Cost                   98.1           110.4         208.5
Physical Contingencies                       10.3            11.4          21.7
Price Contingencies                          12.7            14.2          26.9
Cofinancing Fee                                               0.3           0.3
Total Project Cost                121.1           136.3         257.4
Financing Plan:
Exim Bank of Japan Loan                    19.7            54.2          73.9 3/
IBRD Loan                                   -             80.8           80.8
ANP                                         9.5             _             9.5
Government                                 91.9             1.3          93.2
Total Financing                   121.1           136.3         257.4
Estimated Disbursements: 4/
Bank Fiscal Year
89    90    91    92    93    94    95
------------ (US$ millions)-----------
Annual                                   8.0  10.0  18.0  21.0  15.0   7.0   1.8
Cumulative                               8.0  18.0  36.0  57.0  72.0  79.0  80.8
Rate of Return:                          28Z
1/ Including local taxes and duties totaling US$48.8 million.
2/ Including supervision of construction.
3/ Including US$0.265 m. for cofinancing fee.
4/ Including initial deposit into the Special Account totaling US$8.0 million.



-3-
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
2.01      Uruguay's transport infrastructure comprises  62,000 km of roads, of
which 11Z are paved; 3,000 km of railway track; one deep water port and a
large number of minor ports; an off-shore tanker mooring buoy and pipelines
for petroleum imports; and 25 commercial airports. Montevideo, Uruguay's main
commercial and population center, is the hub of the transport system and the
main foreign trade  port.    Although  the  transport system provides adequate
access to most areas, it is old and inadequate for present and future needs.
Most roads were built over 30 years ago and very little investments have been
made in ports and railways over the past decade. Roads are the predominant
domestic transport mode accounting for over 87Z of total domestic freight
(ton-km), excluding petroleum and its subproducts, and 92Z of non-urban
passenger traffic (passenger-km).   Value  added  by  the transport sector has
remained at about 62 of GDP for the last 25 years.
2.02      A favorable assessment  of  Uruguay's  fish  resource potential made
with FAO's assistance in 1975/76 resulted in Government's decision to develop
the industry and La Paloma as an industrial fishing port. The Government is
pursuing more intensive development of the fisheries sector through incentives
to the private sector and to the La Paloma port, which is expected to be
served by three private fish processing plants.
2.03      Tourism, an important element of the  Uruguayan economy, accounts in
some years for as much as 172 of export earnings. During the peak 1985 season
more than 450,000 tourists visited Uruguay and spent more than US$111 million,
equivalent to about 13% of the value of goods exported during the year. The
peak tourist traffic substantially exceeds the capacity of t'e access roads
and ports, reoacing the level of service and user safety.
2.04      The principal role of the transport sector for the next decade would
be to support agricultural and industrial production, increased fisheries
development and the expanding tourism  demand.    Investments in the sector in
the short to medium-term should emphasize: (a) the improvement, rehabilitation
and maintenance of neglected infrastructure and equipment; (b) modernization
of transport facilities and services including particularly the improvement in
the management and operations of the state enterprises; (c) the provision of
additional capacity to accommodate future fisheries and tourism demand; and
(d)  the   increase   in   private   sector   participation.          The  present
administration's program for the transport sector (para. 2.29) is based on the
preceding objectives.
B.   Institutional Framework
2.05      The  Ministry   of   Transport   and   Public   Works   (MTOP),  has
responsibility for developing  the  national  transport  policy, for transport
planning and coordination, for setting  tariffs for national and international
transport services, for registering all transport equipment, and for studyik,g
and implementing all  national  public  works.    Through  its Directorates of
Transport (DNT), of Roads (DNV) and of Hydrography (DNH), MTOP oversees
national and international rail, air, road ard shipping services and the
national roads and small craft ports infrastructure. Regional services and



- 4 -
small craft ports infrastructure.    Regional  services ond infrastructure are
the direct  responsibility  of  the  Departmental  Governments.   Three public
sector enterprises: the State Railway Administration (AFE), the National Ports
Administration (ANP) and the First T'ruguayan Airline (PLUNA) administer and
provide  transport  services   in   their   respective   modes.         The  above
organizational arrangements are adequate in principle. In practice, however,
MTOP has had little involvement with ANP and AFE, intezmodal planning and
coordination are weak, (para. 2.06), and the respective roles of MTOP and
other public agencies involved with small craft and fishing ports are unclear
ancl uncoordinated (paras. 2.15 and 2.16).
C.   Main Issues
(i) Sector-wide Issues
2.06      MTOP's Investment  Planning.    The  institutional  organization for
investment programming needs strengthening.   The  Office for Planning and the
Budget (OPP) which has traditionally provided guidelines to public enterprises
by authorizing investment levels, external financing and approving tariff
levels, has recently expanded its efforts and set development objectives and
project evaluation guidelines.   This  needs  to  be  supported by a parallel,
substantial improvement in the sectoral  programming  units.  In the transport
sector, MTOP is by statute responsible for putting together transport plat1:.
for monitoring implementation, and for annual revisions to reflect changing
needs and resources. Planning units within the modal agencies are expected to
identify and evaluate investments in their respective modes as an input to
MTOP's sector-wide transport plan.    However, MTOP's planning performance has
traditionally been weak due to: (a) Insufficient commitment to planning and
inadequate in-house planning capacity; (b) insufficient technical support from
OPP; and (c) weak planning capacity in the modal agencies. MTOP has made a
good start with the creation of its Transport Planning and Coordinating Unit
recently renamed Technical Economic Evaluation Unit (AETE), which has so far
established a transport data base and been assisting DNV in screening its road
projects. To further strengthen its planning and coordinating capacity, MTOP
plans to take the following actions: (a) extend AETE's role to ir._lude
preparation of pluriannual transport plans and their annual revision; (b)
develop the necessary planning tools at the ministerial level; and (c) assist
the modal agencies  to  strengthen  planning  capacities.    The project would
provide technical assistance to MTOP for strengthening AETE in its expanded
planning role, by helping develop the necessary planning methodologies and
tools and in training staff.   MTOP's  Action  Plan (para. 3.08(a) and (b) and
Annex 1] for strengthening its planning and coordinating capacity, with an
outline of specific actions, the responsibility for taking them and their
timing, was confirmed during negotiations.
2.07      Road User Charges.  Because of  lack of adequate data collection and
processing systems, information on revenues from road user charges in Uruguay
is unreliable. The Bank's estimates, based upon traffic flows, motor fuel
consumption, and the road user charges in force, indicate revenues of about
TIS$76 million compared to about US$60 million needed annually for adequate
periodic and routine maintenance and administration of the highway network.
There is, therefore, no economic reason to adjust the charges at this time.
Also, the price3 of gasoline and diesel-oil at US$1.70 and US$1.09 per gallon,
respectively, are higher than the border prices plus production costs. MTOP,
however, needs to establish a better information base of road-user charge



-5 -
rcceipts and a mechanism for systematic updating of user charge levels and for
monitoring their adequacy in relation to the road network's marginal costs in
order to permit  proposing  adjustments  when  necessary.    The project would
provide technical assistance to MTOP to carry out a more reliable comparison
of road-user charges receipts and to set up the mechanism for the systematic
monitoring of the adequacy of user charge levels. MTOP's Action Plan [para.
3.08(c) and Annex 1) details the actions to be taken and the schedule for
their implementatior.. During negotiations, the Government agreed to complete
the updated user charges revenue study by October 31, 1989, to discuss it with
the Bank and to make any necessary adjustments to the levels of charges to
ensure that user charges reflect at least the short-term marginal costs of
maintaining and administering the network by December 31, 1989.
(ii) Highways Subsector Issues
2.08      The detailed description of  the  highways  subsector is provided in
Annex  1.    The  following  paragraphs  concentrate  on  the  DNV's  and  the
departmental agencies' main issues and areas of institutional weaknesses.
2.09      DNV's  Highway  Planning.    Since  1985  DNV  has  made significant
progress in introducing economic criteria for investment selection. The first
step was made by screening, on the basis of economic rates of return, about
200 road projects and organizing the justifiable projects in a pluriannual
road investment and maintenance  program.   For foreign-financed road projects
under the program, DNV has been updating the engineering and economic
feasibility studies using consultants, its own staff or AETE. For those
projects locally financed (up to 602 of the program) only the cost estimates
are updated. The strengthening of AETE's planning and coordinating capacity
to cover all transport modes (para. 2.06) would help eliminate weaknesses in
the highway planning process.    Under  the  project,  AETE would, inter alia,
prepare a rolling Five-Year Road Investment and Maintenance Plan more closely
linked with other sectors of the economy and would carry out annual reviews of
the Plan. The project would provide for technical assistance to AETE to
improve its existing methods and too.s for developing the Road Plan. The
specific actions to be ta'..en to this end and their schedule are detailed in
the MTOP's Action Plan for roads [para. 3.09(s) and Annex 1] agreed with the
Bank.
2.10      Administration of  the  Road  Network:  DNV  is  responsible for the
administration, planning, construction and maintenance of the 9,700 km of
national roads (of which about 70% are paved) while the departmental road
agencies are responsible for about 52,700 km of departmental roads. The
existing road classification needs updating to reflect some significant
changes in traffic levels  and  function  of  some  roads.   The project would
provide technical assistance for this purpose, based on which DNV would make
proposals  for   the   necessary   Government   legislation   to   effect  the
riclassification.  The Government  agreed  on  these  measures, as outlined in
MTOP's Action Plan for roads [para. 3.09(b) and Annex 1].
2.11      DNV's  and  Departmental  Agencies'  Technical  Capacity.    Lack of
sufficient technical capacity has been one of the main reasons for DNV's and
the departments' lese than satizfartory performance in carrying out the major
highway related functions, particularly construction and maintenance. The
project would provide technical assistance particularly in the areas of
engineering, quality control and cost control to DNV and the departments
through  the  establishment  of   computerized  methods  of  design,  improved
laboratory facilities and personnel  training.    MTOP's Action Plan for roads



[para. 3.09(c) and Annex 1] outlines the implementation schedule for these
reforms.
2.12      Operation of  the  Highway  Network.    DNV's present organizational
structure does not include a traffic department capable of applying the
necessary engineering methodologies to provide efficient traffic operation and
adequate safety levels. Considerable improvement has been ac.lieved by AETE,
which since 1983 has been conducting a traffic counting program as well as
origin and destination surveys used mairly as an input for economic evaluation
of projects. However, additional technical assistance is required. Under
MTOP's Action Plan for roads [para. 3.09(d) and Annex 1], DNV would establish
a traffic division or department capable of prov'ding for traffic operations,
traffic engineering,  safety  surveys  and  related  studies.    The technical
assistance to be contracted  under  the  project would support this initiative
through the establishment of a  continuous system for gathering and evaluating
road accident data, and by improving design standards and deployment of
traffic control devices.
2.13      Maintenance Management.   Maintenance  of  all  national highways is
performed exclusively by DNV force account. Routine maintenance is generally
satisfactory, but the combination of increasing costs, inadequate periodic
maintenance and a highway network approaching 40 years of age, requires
additional effort to maintain an acceptable level of service. Development of
an effective maintenance management system has a high priority for DNV at this
time. Maintenance on the departmental roads is much worse. Although each
departmental government has an office responsible for public buildings and
roads, understaffing, lack of technical capability and shortage of funds have
made these units  ineffective.    In  addition,  design,  and construction and
maintenance practices are not standardized between the departments and, for
the most part, they do not apply DNV's national network standards. MTOP's
Action Plan for roads [para. 3.09(e) -.nd Annex 1] includes an upgrading of
DNV's  maintenance  directorate  as  well   as  the  transfer  of  maintenance
technologies to the departments. The project would be providing the necessary
technical assistance to support these initiatives.
(iii) Ports Subsector Issues
2.14      Details of the ports subsector  are  provided  in Annex 3.  The main
issues in the subsector are discussed below.
2.15      Ports St.  ector Institutional  Framework.    A multitude of agencies
are involved in ports administration, operation and marketing, including:
MTOP, through DNH and DNT; ANP; the Ministry of Labor and Social Security,
through the National Administration for Stevedore Sertices (ANSE); the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, through the customs, foreign trade regul-
ations and naval industries; the Ministry of Defense and the Navy, through the
National Coast Guard (PNN); and the Ministry of Agriculture, through the
National Institute of  Fishing  (INAPE).    In  addition, the recently-created
Ministry of Tourism is expected to be involved in promoting small craft ports
and harbours. In general, a case exists for the presence of all these agen-
cies in the ports subsector, but the areas of authority for each of these
agencies needs to be defined. Moreover, as explained below, some agencies are
performing functions that could be more efficiently handled by the private
sector.



-7-
2.16      ANP is an autonomous  state  enterprise respcnsible for the adminis-
tration and operation of all commercial ports incLuding cargo-handling (except
stevedoring which is carried out by ANSE), towage, dredging, port construction
and maintenance, operation of some old merchant vessels and ship repair
facilities, and  granting  of  licences  for  port  servicrs.   The Government
recognizes that this dispersion of ANP's efforts over too many areas, is a
major contributor to its low productivity. DNH is the directorate within MTOP
responsible for  constructing  and  operat4ng  all  small  craft harbours, for
operating the fishing port of La Paloma, for rnaintaining navigable waterways
and buoy markings, for the provision  of ferry and river crossing services and
for the promotion of small craft  ports.   The Government also recognizes that
DNH's role should be more  limited,  pzobably  to  the purely technical one of
planning, building and maintaining the small craft Dorts and navigable
waterways.  In particular, the  promotion  and  operation of small craft ports
are tasks better suited for the private sector or the Ministry of Tourism, and
the operation of fishing ports should be placed elsewhere. Under the proposed
project the Government would review and decide on the specific role of each
public agency and of the private sector and recommend enactment of the
necessary laws or decrees to assign the associated responsibilities. The
Government  would  also  study   ways   for  promoting  wider  private  sector
participation in the development and operation of small craft ports and in the
provision of dredging services.   The  specific  actions to be taken and their
timing to remedy the Institutional framework for ports administration and
operation is provided in the MTOP's Action Plan for ports [para. 3.10(a) and
Annex 1] agreed with the Bank.
2.17      ANP's Organization and  Functions.    ANP  has  an obsolete organiz-
ational structure, is overstaffed and not geared to a cohirnercially oriented
operation. Moreover, although nominally autonomous, ANP's decision making has
been undermined by the intervention in its day-to-day operations by its Board
of Directors. Coordination of ANP's port operation activities with tnose of
ANSE, which carries out the stevedoring in the Montevideo port, is also weak.
Following the Government's decision to reexamine ANP's role, MTOP and ANP with
consultants assistance to ', provided under the project, would carry out an
in-depth review of '.e s organization, operational procedures and methods and
required staffing. This review would also include the upgrading of ANP's
marketing   and   commercial   research    capabilities   to   define   market
characteristics, clients' needs and competition factors. The Government would
then set up a revised organizational structure for ANP aimed at making it more
commercially oriented. The implementation schedule for these reforms is also
outlined in MTOP's Action Plan for ports [para. 3.10(b) and (c) and Annex 1].
2.18      Planning and Budgeting.  ANP  also  suffers from weak in-house capa-
city for inv"stment planning  and  pluriannual  budgeting.   The recently com-
pleted Master Plan for the Montevideo port provides a useful basis for the
port's short to long-term development  program.   Under the MTOP's Action Plan
for ports [para. 3.10(d) and Annex 1], ANP would strengthen its capacity to
update the Plan's recommendations annually to reflect changing port demand,
availability of resources and productivity changes. ANP would also institute
and revise as necessary, the system for pluriannual budgeting of its activi-
ties designed by consultants under the last port project (Loan 1798-UR), and
train its statf in its use. The project would provide the necessary technical
assistance to support the preceding measures.



2.19      Port Operations.  Productivity  at  Montevideo  port ia low compared
with that of other ports of similar size and volume of traffic in developing
countries.    Analysis  shows  that  both  cargo  and  gang  productivity  are
considerably lower than that of other ports, and that the idle time of ships
alongside berths of the Montevideo port is considerable longer than in other
ports. A detailed analysis of the causes of this situation is included in
Annex 3. Low productivity is the result of lack of coordination between
stevedoring and on-shore cargo handling, inappropriate cargo handling methods,
lack of incentives for efficiency, inadequate workers' skills, poor equipment
maintenance and inadequate storage areas.   ANP, with consultants' assistance,
intends to: (a) reorganize the port into specialized terminals, with their own
personnel and equipment for containers, general cargo, perishable goods and
fishing services; (b) develop and adopt an efficiency-indicator system to
monitor port productivity; (c) introduce a productivity-based compensation
system for workers; (d) improve coordination of stevedoring and on-shore cargo
handling; (e) train port operations staff; and (f) remove physical constraints
such as lack of ineependent access to the container terminal, obsolete sheds,
deficient internal electric systems to operate container and quay cranes and
inadequate port handling equipment.   These  actions would be undertaken under
the proposed project, and their scheduling is outlined in MTOP's Action Plan
for ports (para. 3.10(e) and (f) and Annex 11. Necessary technical assistance
to support these measures is also being provided under the project.
2.20      Equipment  Maintenance:  ANP  has  no  systematic  approach  towards
equipment maintenance. Analytical maintenance planning as well as preventive
and periodic equipment maintenance are practically non-existent. In addition,
annual budgets bear no  relationship  to  needs.    As  outlined in the MTOP's
Action Plan for ports  (para.3.10(g)  and  Annex  1],  ANP would undertake the
following actions to improve its equipment maintenance: (a) establish, with
consultants'  assistance  a  system  for  planning,  executing  and monitoring
equipment  maintenance;  (b)  review   and  adapt  its  equipment  maintenance
organization and provide training for  staff  to implement the system; and (c)
allocate sufficient funds in its p.uriannual budgets for equipment maintenance
based upon a detailed program.
2.21      Financial  Management.    ANP's  financial  planning,  budgeting and
accounting systems, which are being upgraded with consultants' assistan-e
under L3an 1798-UR, will allow a more effective programming and subsequent
control of ANP's operations as well as more realistic planning of its capital
expenditures.   Follow  up  measures,  including  the  computerization  of the
systems and the establishment of internal audit functions, are part of MTOP's
Action Plan for ports (para. 3.10(h) and Annex 1]. DNH, as part of a central
government agency, operates under the five year budget approved by Congress.
As with the rest of MTOP's directorates, DNH budgeting as well as accounting
systems wculd need to  be  strengthened.    MTOP's  Action Plan for ports also
includes the upgrading of DNH's financial management system.
2.22      Costs and Tariffs.  ANP's tariff  system, because of lack of system-
atic cost data, has no relation to costs and therefore, a gredt number of
tariffs are quoted on an ad-valorem  basis.    All charges are expressed in US
dollars, as a proxy for automatic adjustment to currency variations. There
are other disparities in the existing tariff policy comprising: (a) lack of
uniform export tariffs at all ports; (b) lack of charges for the use of quay
cranes: (c) import tariffs more than double export tariffs; and (d) numerous
tarift exemptions for fishing vessels.   Under the previous port project (Loan



- 9 -
1798-UR), consultants designed a sound port costing system by cost center and
service, which is scheduled to be fully instituted by end-1988. The tourist
ports new tariffs include charges per meter length and day as well as for
utilities  and  other  services.         Punta   del  Este  also  applies  tariff
differentials depending on the berth and the season (high, mid and low), which
appears logical. It would be better, however, if all tariffs were cost-based.
The Action Plan for the ports [para. 3.10(g) and Annex 11 includes a revision
of ANP's and the small craft ports' tariff structure based on the new costing
system to ensure cost recovery.
2.23      ANP's Financial Performance.    ANP's  financial  evaluation of ANP,
pre~sented in Annex 4, indicates a deteriorating financial situation since
1980.    Declining  traffic,  increasing  staff  costs,  low  productivity and
inadequate tariff adjustments have gradually eroded the entity's financial
capacity, turning, in 1984, net profits into net losses. In addition, as a
result of the deteriorating operating results and of increasing foreign debt
obligations, ANP's cash  position  has  become  critical.    Since 1983 it has
resorted to new bank loans to service existing debt obligations, further
aggravating the cash deficits. A financial forecast for 1988-1995, based upon
the proposed reorganization of ANP (para. 2.17), staff reductions, tariff
revision and expected productivity increases show an improvement in working
and operating ratios, from 86 and 103 in 1987 to 61 and 79 in 1995 and in
financial rate of return on revalued fixed assets from -0.62 in 1988 to 4X in
1995. In order to ensure ANP's financial recovery, the following agreements
were reached at negotiations: (a) the Government would provide the necessary
financial support to ANP totaling about US$20 million in the 1988-1989
period, to cover its external debt service payments; (b) ANP would restructure
its tariffs based on the new costing system, by March 30, 1990; (c) ANP would
not incur any debt, in addition to the proposed loan unless its net operating
revenues are at least 1.5 times the annual debt service charges; (d) ANP would
achieve a ratio of operating expenses to operating revenues not higher than
87? in 1990, 842 in 1991, 82? in 1992, 802 in 1993 and 1994 and 792 in 1995
and thereafter; and (e) ANP would achieve financial rates of return on
revalued fixed assets of not less than 2.0X in 1990, 2.62 in 1991, 2.92 in
1992, 3.32 in 1993, 3.72 in 1994 and 4.0 in 1995 and thereafter.
2.24      Financial Viability of La  Paloma  Port.    At present the La Paloma
port does not generate any revenue. MTOP has been absorbing total capital and
operating costs through the Government budget.   It should be the objective of
the port to achieve cost recovery of port operations through user charges.
ASTRA, the only one of the three fish factories in the area which is presently
in operation, was granted special incentives (port tariff and tax exemptions)
during the start-up period. These exemptions are due to expire in 1991. La
Palor.a port, however, would only achieve financial viability if a second fish
factory of similar size as ASTRA starts operations in the area. Project
investments in the port would, therefore, be contingent upon confirmation of
the start of operations of second fish processing factory [paras. 2.31 and
3.06 (d)].
2.25      Financial Viability of Piriapolis  Port.  Presently, the Piriapolis'
meagre income does not cover its operating costs. TVe Government's budget for
MTOP provides for the capital and recurrent expenditute. Through the project,
this port should ultimately become financially viable (Annex 4). The main
sources of income will be 1he  adequtiate port charges for the services provided
and the regular ttansfer of funds  t.' tlip lptt rpstilt itig from the appreciation



- 10 -
of land and property. The critical factor for the financial viability of the
port is that the revenues from the leasing of land to private concessionaires,
and the appreciation of land and property value in the area, continue to be
passed  on  to  the  Piriapolis   port.       The  Government  should  take  the
responsibility  to  ensure  such  revenues  are  forthcoming.    Assurance was
obtained from the Government that it would therefore guarantee that it will
provide a financial contribution which would make up for any shortages from
loss of income from leasing of lanu and appreciation of property values in the
port area.
(vi) Railway Subsector Issues
2.26      The railway subsector  has  faced  serious  problems for many years.
Demand for rai±way services has virtually stagnated in the last decade, there
has been little investment since 1952 and the company's financial situation
has recently required annual Government subsidies of USS20-30 million. In
light  of  this  situation,  in   1987  the  Government  designed  a  complete
rationalization of railway  services.    This  program,  which includes, inter
alia, a complete reorganization of the enterprise and reductions in service,
lines  and  employees  is   reflected  in  a  Government-Railways  performance
contract. Upon obtaining legislative approval, the Government in January 1988
embarked on a series of actions aimed at downsizing the railway to fit its
present and future economic role. Although the most important measures of the
rationalization program were designed to be carried out over a five-year
period (1988-1992), the results of the first year, which include, inter alia,
elimination of passenger and parcel services and declaration of 28Z of AFE's
staff redundant, will most likely exceed the targets, demonstrating clearly
Government's commitment to  these  commendable  and  difficult   reforms.  The
proposed project will not deal with the railway subsector, in light of the
advanced stage of the  rationalization  program.    However, the Bank would be
regularly informed on the course of the program.
2.27      Railway Rationalization  Measures.    Until  January  1988, when the
Government terminated passenger transt 't on the railways, AFE provided
freight car load services on all of its 2,987 kms of lines and passenger
services on all except  three  small  lines.    Freight  traffic demand on the
network is so low that even if AFE took the necessary steps to improve its
productivity,  maintenance,  planning  and   financial  management,  it  would
continue to be both financially and economically non-viable if it kept all of
its present network.   A  recent  independent  study of AFE's future prospects
concluded that the railways could be viable in the medium to long term for
freight traffic if: (a) it reduced the length of its network by at least 40Z;
(b)  focussed  its  services  on   block-train  and  wagon-load  traffic;  (c)
refurbished its  remaining  track  and  equipment;  and  (d) reduced  staff to
correspond to  the  above  strategy.    As  stated  above,  the Government has
approved these recommendations and designed a complete restructuring of AFE,
which is currently underway.    In  addition,  AFE  has provided for technical
assistance (about US$2.3 million) in its 1988-1990 investment program to help
improve  administration,  planning,  maintenance  and  signalization.    AFE's
programmed recruitment of consultants would also assist in introducing a
proper financial management  sys.em.    Active  involvement  of MTOP and AFE's
Board in the railways management is expected to continue during the next few
years when AFE will still be undergoing its major restructuring.



- 11 -
D.   MTOP's Transport Sector Expenditure Program
2.28      MTOP's transport expenditure  program  encompasses: rehabilitating a
primary highway (Route 1) which is part of the tourism network, building roads
in the agricultural areas to improve access to processing facilities and
improving maintenance of the rest of the road network; modernizing and
improving infrastructure in the Montevideo port, La Paloma fishing port and
several tourist ports, including Punta del Este; streamlining the railway and
improving the remaining track and rolling stock; and adapting air transport
services to  the  country's  needs.    The  transport  expenditure  program is
generally in line with the country's needs, as discussed below.
2.29      The 1987-1989 public  sector  expenditure  program  for transport is
presented in Annex 5, Table 1.   The overall size of the program, about US$317
million or 1.52 of GDP and 30% of the total public sector investments for the
period, is appropriate, particularly considering the past neglect of the
transport infrastructu-e and current and future needs. The program is also in
line with the ceilings authorized by the Office for Planning and Budget (OPP)
in March 1988.   The  relative  amounts  allocated  to  the various modes also
correctly reflect their economic role and needs: about 74% of the total is for
highways, 15% for ports, 7Z for railways, 1% for civil aviation and 3X for
overseeing transport operations and regulations. For highways, about one-half
of the program would be for maintenance which is both appropriate and in
proportion  to  DNV's  implementation  capacity.    The  investments  in  road
construction and rehabilitation are based on carefully analyzed economic
feasibility and priority ranking.    For  ANP,  the  1987-1989 program for the
M1ontevideo port, about US$7 million, is in line with short to medium-term
needs and would comprise high priority, economically justified investments
recommended by the Bank-supervised Montevideo Port Master Plan Study. DNH's
investments, on the other hand, include some tourist ports such as Puerto
Viejo de Colonia and Atlantida for which economic justification has not yet
been clearly established.    The  US$22  million  planned expenditures on AFE,
which take into consideration Government's policy reforms and restructuring of
the railways, comprise needed track renewal and rehabilitation, overhaul of
locomotives,  installation  of  a   new  signalization  system  and  technical
assistance  for  implementing   organizational   reforms   and  for  improving
management and operations. AFE's 1987-89 investments have been evaluated by
consultants and found  economically  feasible.    The planned expenditures for
civil aviation, essentially for PLUNA, are minimal and have not yet been
economically evaluated. Implementation of the first year of the 1987-1989
public sector program reached only about 50% for the transport sector
agencies, except DNv which exceeded its program slightly.
2.30      The transport agencies are currently preparing expenditure proposals
for 1988 to 1992. Preliminary estimates from their draft proposals call for
about US$690 million over the five year period, or an average of US$138
million p.a., which is about 302 above the OPP-approved yearly averages for
1987-89 (Annex 5, Table 1).    Therefore,  although  about 90% of the proposed
expenditures have already been justified economically, OPP would need to
review carefully and revise the individual modal programs to ensure that they
are in line with the agencies' implementation capacities and the availability
of funds to the  overall  nublic  sector.    In  fact, the expenditure program
represents a pluri-annual authorization to incur expenditures as well as an
expenditure ceiling authorized by the Parliament, while actual expenditures
are subject to reductions based on annual authorized budgets. Specific



- 12 -
comments on the individual modal programs for 1988-92 are given in Annex 5.
At negotiations, the size and composition of MTOP's 1988-1992 Transport
Expenditure Program was reviewed and, in addition, the Government agreed to
inform the Bank on each updating of the Transport Sector Expenditure Program
during project implementation.
E.   Bank Involvement in the Sector and Lending Strategy
(i) Past Involvement
2.31      The Bank has played an important role in Uruguay's transport system.
The first highway loan in 1963, financed improvements to Route 5 and, in 1979,
a second loan financed improvements along the Route 8 corridor. A port loan,
also in 1979, financed the conversion of a wharf at the Montevideo Port into a
container cargo terminal and the provision of floating equipment for the
container terminal and floating craft including dredging equipment. The most
recent highway loan, in 1983, is financing part of a five year road investment
and maintenance program. It was revised in 1986 to increase its support for
maintenance activities. Physical objectives of the completed projects were
satisfactorily achieved. Institution-building of past lending has focused on
training staff to carry out feasibility studies, mainly for road projects and
for financial control in ANP.    Improved maintenance management practices for
road infrastructure and equipment have been successfully introduced, but need
to be developed further.
(ii) Lending Strategy
2.32      The Bank's general lending  strategy  in  Uruguay  is to continue to
support policy reforms while providing for investments in projects which
address  specific  bottlenecks.    In   the  transport  sector,  the  specific
objectives are to assist in the improvement, rehabilitation and maintenance of
existing facilities, improve management and operational performance of the
sector's agencies and to help resolve the key policy issues. The proposed
project would be used to support policy reforms, to address some of the issues
and provide financing for priority  investment  needs.   At the same time, the
project would support efforts to strengthen sector and subsector management
and to increase private sector participation in the sector. The institutional
policy reforms are included in MTOP's Action Plans to be implemented under the
project.
III. THE PROJECT AND THE ACTION PLANS
A.    Project Objectives and Content
3.01      The proposed project is  designed  as  a  sector project with strong
policy-based objectives aimed at reforming the sector, strengthening its
managerial and planning capabilities and stimulating competition and private
sector involvement. It includes institutional development Action Plans for
MTOP and ANP and provides for high priority investments in the roads and ports
subsectors. In particular, the Action Plans would aim at: (a) strengthening
road management capability, especially maintenance planning and programming of
MTOP  and  the  transfer   of   know-how   to  departmental  governments;  (b)
reorganizing the ports subsector, including the redefinition of functions and



- 13 -
responsibilities for planning, constructing, maintaining and operating the
ports;  and  (c)  improving   transport   regulations,  tariffs  and  reducing
subsidies. The investments would help finance: a highway replacement program,
a time-slice of MTOP's road rehabilitation and maintenance program and a
departmental gravel roads program; priority rehabilitation works in ports;
expansion of La Paloma fishing port and Punta del Este and Piriapolis small
crLft ports; ..,d an institutional development program including technical
assistance and training to support the implementation of the Action Plans.
B.   Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.02      The Bank's strategy for  Uruguay  emphasizes supporting reforms that
enhance Uruguay's balance of payments prospects through increased exports, and
assisting the Government's adjustment program by, among inter alia, reducing
the fiscal deficit. Major reforms are now called for in the transport sector
to support such a  strategy:    transport  facilities, services and management
procedures need to be modernized to meet present and forecast demand;
transport costs need to be reduced in order to help promote foreign trade,
strengthen regional integration and facilitate domestic market growth; and
parastatals such as ANP, need to eliminate their deficits and contribute to
national savings. Through its earlier loans for highways and for ports, the
Bank has established a leadership role and is better placed than other donors
to offer assistance in the major institutional reforms under the project. The
Bank's  involvement  would  help  initiate   and  accelerate  the  process  of
implementing the policy and institutional reforms and provide for the required
continuity, while the investment financing would enhance the operating
efficiency of the existing surface transport system, as well as to help the
Government to carry out its ambitious sector expenditure program.
C.   Project Description
3.03      The proposed project  would  consist  of the following high-priority
inveetments selected from MTOP's 1988-1992 Transport Expenditure Program:
(i) Road Investments
3.04      The road investments  would  complement  progress achieved under the
Third  Highway  Project  (2238-UR)  by   adding   to  the  programs  for  road
maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction on the National Highway System
and to the National Feeder Road Program, a construction program of safety
improvements on the National Highway System as well as technical assistance to
strengthen MTOP and  the  departmental  governments.    The  road component is
described in detail in Annex 2 and the location of the works shown in Maps
IBRD 20952 and 20953. Details of the technical assistance and training to be
provided are included in Annex 6.
(a)  Replacement Program
- Replacement of a 149 km section of RNI between Colonia and
Montevideo (built in 1930),including about ten structures for
bridges and overpasses;



- 14 -
(b) Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
- Rehabilitation of a 15 km section of RN6 in a suburban area north
of Montevideo;
-  Rehabilitation of a 51 km section of RN7 north of Monrevideo; and
- Rehabilitation and maintenance of additional priority highway
sections and bridges;
(c) Department Maintenance Program
- Annual routine maintenance programs over the project period for a
maximum of 10,000 km of selected gravel roads in participating
departments and annual periodic maintenance programs on about
2,000 km of these gravel roads;
(d) Institutional Strengthening of MTOP (Highways)
- Technical assistance for the improvement of MTOP's capabilities
in transportation planning and management including preparation
of a multi-mode transportation planning computer model; provision
of a training program for transport sector management and review
of road-user charges; and
(e) Institutional Strengthening of DNV and Participating Departments
-  Technical  assistance  for   the   improvement   of  DNV  and  of
participating Department's capabilities in highway planning,
engineering, traffic management, soils and materials testing, as
well as maintenance and equipment management;
- Technical assistance for the preparation of computer models for
highway planning, detailed engineering, traffic management, also
road maintenance and equipment management;
- Acquisition of computer hardware and software, and ancillary
equipment;
- Participation of professional staff in international conferences
and working visits abroad.
(ii) Port Investments
3.05      Port  investments   would   complement   improvem-nts   to  existing
facilities in the Montevideo port, provide  adequate safety and water depth at
the industrial fishing port of La Paloma and increase capacity for small craft
at Punta del Este port. The port component is described in detail in Annex 3
and summarized below. The location of the project ports and the scope of the
work are shown  in  Maps  IBRD  20954  and  20955.    Details of the technical
assistance and training to be provided are included in Annex 6.



- 15 -
ANP Ports
(a) Montevideo
- Civil works for the construction of a dike to Leduce siltation,
improvement of access to the container terminal, and remodeling
of the general cargo, multipurpose and perishable product areas,
including upgrading of utilities and construction of ancillary
buildings; and
- container handling equipment for yard operations, power supply
equipment and materials for the areas to be remodeled, computer
hardware and software and training equipment and materials.
DNH Small Craft Ports
(b) La Paloma
- Civil works for the construction of a breakwater;
- dredging tc expand the access channel and basin; and
- civil works and equipment to expand the water supply system.
(c) Punta del Este
- Civil works for additional small craft berths.
(d) Piriapolis
- Civil works for the extension of the existing breakwater,
berthing   and   boat-repair   facilities,   and   dredging   and
reclamation, including paving and utilities.
(e) Ports Institutional Strengthening
- ANP Institutional  Strengthening:  (i)  te2hnical  assistance for
improving    ANP's    managerial,    administrative,    planning,
operational,  maintenance   and   financing   capabilities;  (ii)
supervision   of    construction;    and    (iii)   coordinating,
administering and implementing of a four-year training program
for ANP; and
-  training addressed  to  top  and  mid-level  managers and skilled
workers, including courses and seminars in Uruguay and abroad,
attendance at international conferences, scholarships and on-the-
job training (Annex 6).
-  MTOP Ports Institutional Strengthening: Technical assistance for:
(i) studying alternative ways of increasing private sector
participation in the promotion and operation of tourist ports;
(ii) reorganizing dredging services, including the definition of
institutional  arrangements  to  permit   the  cost  recovery  of
dredging activities.



- 16 -
3.06      A provision of funds for works to  be executed in La Paloma port has
been included in the  project.    However,  during negotiations, agreement was
reached that confirmation of the start-up of operations of a second fish
processing plant at La Paloma would be a condition for release of Bank funds
for this component.
D.   The Action Plans
(i) Actions to be taken
3.07      The main sectoral  issues  were  identified  in discussions with the
Government during the preparation of the Bank's Transport Sector Strategy
Paper for Uruguay (Report  No.  6747-UR  of  May  11,  1987).   Based upon the
findings, the Government established a series of actions directed at resolving
the sector's major issues, and a set of related yearly operational targets to
be achieved during  the  1989-1995  period.    The  actions, incorporated into
several action plans covering policy and institutional reforms, as detailed in
Annex 1 and summarized below, were confirmed during negotiations.
3.08      At a sector-wide level,  reforms  would  aim at strengthening MTOP's
management and planning capabilities and at ensuring sufficient cost recovery
from highway users. The main actions contemplated to attain these objectives
include:
(a)  development of an Intermodal Transportation Planning Model;
(b)  strengthening  of   MTOP's   and   the   modal   agencies'  planning
capabilities   through    introducing    the    necessary   planning
methodologies and providing tools and staff training; and
(c)  review of present level of road user-charges to ensure cost recovery
and development of a mechanism to adjust charges when needed.
3.09      In the roads subsector, reforms  would  aim at:  strengthening DNV's
planning capacity; upgrading engineering capacity and quality control in DNV
and  the  departments;  improving  operation   of  the  highway  network;  and
strengthening road maintenance planning  and  organization.   The main actions
contemplated to meet these objectives would be:
(a)  preparation of a rolling  Five-Year  Road Investment and Maintenance
Plan;
(b)  revision  of  primary,  secondary  and  tertiary  networks  based on
present traffic levels and function of roads;
(c)  upgrading of engineering  and  quality  controls through adoption of
modern methods of design, adequate laboratory facilities and field
soil exploration;
(d)  establishment of DNV's  Traffic  Department  with responsibility for
vehicle axle weight distribution  regulations,  setting up of a data
base for traffic  accidents,  improvements  in  design standards and
deployment of traffic control devices; and



- 17 -
(e) setting-up of systems for the preparation of rolling multi-annual
programs for routine and periodic maintenance of the National Road
network and of annual rural roads maintenance programs for the
departments.
3.10      In the ports subsector,  reforms  would pursue: improving efficiency
in provision of port services; improving investment planning, operational
efficiency and equipment maintenance management, all of these at ANP level;
improving port financial management systems; and, at MTOP level, promoting a
wider participation of the private sector in selected port-related activities
and reorganizing dredging  activities.    These  objectives  would be attained
through the following proposed actions:
(a) review of the role of each agency in the ports subsector, including
dredging services, and promoting wider participation of private
sector in provision of selected services;
(b) review of ANP's organizational structure, functions and staff
levels;
(c)  upgrading of ANP's marketing and commercial research capabilities;
(d) establishment of ANPrs rolling multi-annual investment budget;
(e) reorganization of the Montevideo port in specialized port areas,
including revision of working methods and staff allocation;
(f) introduction of an efficiency indicators system in ANP, including
adoption of productivity-based compensation systems for workers;
(g) establishment of an efficient equipment management system in ANP;
and
(h) review of existing accounting and costing procedures, including
establishment of the internal audit function and of cost-based
tariffs  to  ensure  cost  recovery   at  ANP;  establishment  of  a
commercially-oriented general and cost accounting system for tourist
and fishing ports, within DNH.
(ii) Targets
3.11      In the case of the ports subsector, the implementation of the Action
Plan would be also monitored against the following operational performance
targets which were confirmed during loan negotiations:



- 18 -
Operational Performance Targets
Commodity Group and Port Terminal            Ship      Loading    Rates
1.  Container traffic (TEU)                       per crane/hr  per ship/day
(three shifts)
1990   1995    1990  1995
(a) at container terminal               15      18      160   200
(b) at multipurpose terminal              9     11       80   100
2.  General Cargo (ton)                          per/gang/hour  per/ship/day
1990  1995     1990  1995
(a) break bulk                          12    14        400   450
(b) palletized                          36    40       1200  1400
E. Costs and Financing
3.12      The total  project  cost  including  contingencies  is  estimated at
US$257.1 million with a foreign exchange component of US$136.0 million or 53Z
(Table on page 20 and Tables 4.1 and 4.2). Local costs, amounting to US$121.1
million, include US$48.8 million in taxes, mainly value added tax (21Z on net
values of goods, services and works, and custom duties averaging 20Z on CIF
cost for equipment). These costs reflect November 1988 prices.
3.13      The total cost of the road component, including technical assistance
for MTOP, is estimated at US$192.4 million, of which US$97.3 million is the
foreign exchange cost and US$95.0 million the local cost component. The taxes
and duties included in the local costs amount to US$34.7 million. Cost
estimates are based on: (a) detailed engineering for the Highway and Bridge
Replacement Program: (b) detailed engineering for the identified subprojects
of the Highway and  Bridge  Rehabilitation  Program; (c) estimated average per
kilometer costs of routine and periodic maintenance of departmental gravel
roads; (d) prevailing consultant fees (US$4,000 per man/month for expatriate
individual consultants (mostly Argentinian ar.d Brazilian) and US$2,000 to
4,000 per man/month for local), and manpower estimates for the technical
assistance for the Institutional Development Program; and (e) updated costs
for computer hardware and software and other ancillary equipment to support
the technical assistance programs.
3.14      The  total   cost   of   the   port   component   is   estimated  at
US$64.7 million, of which US$38.6 million is the foreign exchange cost and
US$26.1 million the local cost, including taxes and duties amounting to
US$14.1 million. This port component will finance the ANP and the DNH port
programs, whose partial cost estimates are as follows: (i) the total cost of
the ANP program is US$34.9 million of which US$20.5 million is the foreign
exchange cost and US$14.4 the local cost, including taxes and duties amounting
to US$7.8 mi_lion; and (ii) the total cost of the DNH program is estimated at



- 19 -
US$29.8 million, with a foreign exchange cost at US$18.1 million and US$11.7
million of local costs including US$6.2 million of taxes and duties. Cost
estimates are based on: (a) preliminary engineering for civil works on all
items except for port works at Punta del Este for which final design has been
completed; (b) average in.ernational prices for equipment; (c) prevailing
consultant  fees  and  manpower   estimates  for  the  professional  services,
including supervision of construction  and training (additional information is
provided in Annex 6).   Capital  dredging  at  La  Paloma included in the port
component would be executed utilizing dredging equipment currently owned and
operated by ANP and/or DNH; the estimated cost of this item is based on
international prices with an estimated foreign exchange cost of about 702 to
cover depreciation, maintenance, irsurance and fuel.
3.15      Cost estimates include physical contingencies of 10Z for civil works
and all other items except for civil works of the ANP port program, for which
15? is provided. Price contingencies were calculated on projected changes in
local and international prices during the project period e3timated at 3? p.a.
for 1988 through 1990, and 3,5% p.a. for 1991 onward.
3.16      The project would be financed from the proposed Bank loan of US$80.8
million (or about 31? of project costs), a loan from the untied facility of
Export-Import Bank of Japan (Eximbank) of US$73.9 million (or about 29Z of
project costs), and contributions _from the Government and ANP amounting to
US$93.2 million and US$9.5 million, respectively (or about 40? of project
costs). The financing plan is detailed in a table on page 20 and Tables 4.3
through 4.5. Taxes and duties for the highway component and DNE ports program
will be financed by the Government and ANP will finance those corresponding to
its port program.   Government  financing  required  for  the project would be
covered through the  flational  Budget  and  it  shculd  include US$2.0 million
corresponding to the compensation to ANP for the costs of La Paloma dredging.
ANP's financing would be covered from its internally generated funds. During
negotiations it was agreed that the Government will include in its National
Budget the necessary counterpart funds required for the project. Eximbank
would participate in the financing of all project components. For the Bank-
Eximbank  cofinancing  operation,   joint   financing  arrangements  would  be
followed: the cost of all works, goods and services to be procured would be
shared in agreed proportions (Table 4.3); contracts for all works, goods and
services would be placed in accordance with procurement procedures acceptable
to the Bank (para. 4.08); and bidding would be open to all parties who are
eligible under Bank guidelines. The fulfillment of conditions of disbursement
under the Eximbank loan agreement and the signing of a colenders' agreement
between the Bank and Eximbank would be conditions for loan effectiveness.
3.17.     The Government through MTOP would be  the Borrower of the Bank loan.
The Government would on-lend funds from the proposed loan to ANP for the
implementation of the Montevideo port component, including the institutional
developmunt program. Terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreement
would be substantially the same as those of the Bank loan. The effectiveness
of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition
for loan effectiveness.



- 20 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY AND FINANCING /a
(USS millions)
Cost           Z of Foreign  Z of Total
Project Description         Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange    Base Costs
A. Highway Program
Civil works                76.5     76.5    153.0        50            73
B. Highway Institutional
Development Program /b        0.6      2.2       2.8       79             1
C. MTOP Institutional
Development Program           0.1      0.6       0.7       86             0
D. Port Program
(i) ANP Ports Program
Civil works /c          9.0      8.7     17.7        49             8
Equipment               1.8      4.4      6.2        70             3
(ii) DNH Ports Progrgm
Civil works             9.1     13.9     23.0        60            11
Equipment               0.4      0.9      1.3        70             1
Subtotal Ports Program
E. ANP Institutional
Development Program /c        0.6      3.2       3.8       84             2
Total Base Cost              98.1    110.4    208.5        53           100
Physical contingencies      10.3     11.4      21.7       53            10
Price contingencies         12.7     14.2      26.9       53            13
Cofinancing fee                       0.3       0.3      100             0
Total Prolect Cost           121.1    136.3    257.4        53           123
Financing Sources
Eximbank of Japan             19.7     54.2      73.9 id
Proposed IBRD Loan             -       80.8      80.8
National Port Admin.           9.5      -         9.5
Government                    91.9      1.3      93.2
Total Financing                121.1    136.3    257.4
/a Including taxes and duties totalling US$48.8 million.
lb Including equipment for the Institutional Development Program and Training.
/c Including supervision of construction.
/d Including cofinancing fee.



- 21 -
F.   Economic Justification
3.18      The  project  would  finance  part  of  the  Government's 1988-1992
Transport Investment Program and contribute towards introducing major policy
and structural reforms as well as institutional strengthening in the sector
through the  implementation  of  the  various  Action  Plans.   The project's
benefits would therefore go well beyond the returns on specific individual
investments.   The  Action  Plans  ara'  expected  to  improve the management,
administration and operation of both the entire sector and its subsectors.
The economic rate of return (ERR) estimates for the major civil work
components were based on consultants' and DNV' studies included in the
Project File. The assumptions and detailed calculations are summarized in
Annex 7 and the Montevideo port traffic analysis presented in Annex 8. The
overall ERR for the major civil works and equipment components would be about
282.
3.19      For the road  subsector,  the  construction  of  Route  1, on a new
alignment would greatly reduce vehicle operating costs, lower the existing
high accident rate, generate vehicle and passenger time savings and reduce
the need for frequent and costly overlay, rehabilitation and maintenance of
the existing road. These benefits are expected to yield an economic rate of
return of about 262.   The  rehabilitation  of  routes  6  and 7 and of other
selected high priority national roads and bridges would yield benefits mostly
in the form of reduced vehicle operating costs, reduced maintenance costs and
prolonged economic lives of those  facilities.   A detailed economic study of
Routes 6 and 7 shows that these roads would yield ERRs of 22Z and 18Z
respectively and are therefore justifiable fo; inclusion in the project.
Prior to the inclusion of any other roads for rehabilitation in the project
during  implementation,  their  ERRs   would   be  updated,  using  the  same
methodology as for Routes 6 and 7, to ensure that ERRs exceed 122. The
routine and periodic maintenance program for the departmental roads would
reduce transport costs on these roads as well as prolong their useful lives.
The ERRs for the roads to be included during the first year of the program
have becn est.mated  on  the  basis  of  these  benefits  and the routine and
periodic maintenance costs. Only roads with ERRs e:..ceeding 122 are included
in the first year program. The roads to be included in subsequent years of
the program would be analyzed with the same method and roads with ERRs
greater than 122 included.
3.20      For the ports  subsector,  the  investments  in the Montevideo port
would improve port productivity, thus reducing cargo handling costs and ship
waiting time and prolong the lives of ports equipment. The construction of
the closing dike would reduce maintenance dredging costs and provide an
additional 300 hectares of sheltered space for the ship repair industry and
other commercial activities and yield an ERR of about 762 from the reduction
of maintenance dredging alone.   the provision of additional electrical power
supply would produce benefits in the form of reduced ship-waiting times,
savings in labor costs and prevention of traffic diversion to other ports, to
yield an ERR of about  502.    Paving  of  the general cargo terminal back-up
area, demolition of old sheds and construction of new ones, purchase of
container handling equipment, construction and equipment of maintenance
workshops and construction of foundation for cranes would combine to yield an
ERR of 462. The construction of additional wharves at the Punta del Este
port would increase the marina capacity and yield an ERR of about 432 from
benefits derived from port charges for the added mooring spaces, and the
value added to additional economic activity generated by the additional boats



- 22 -
and tourists. The construction of a new breakwater and dredging of the wharf
areas and the expansion of the water supply system would permit the La Paloma
port to become Uruguay's main  fishing  port with benefits accruing from port
charges, increased fishing activity, reduced boat waiting times and savings
in transport costs to the Montevideo fishing port: the enlargement and
modernization of the Piriapolis port would permit the town to develop the
full potential of its tourism industry and complement that of nearby Punta
del Este. The benefits would include added direct revenue resulting from the
growth in boat traffic, in particular those accruing from increases in
repairs and maintenance of boats and seasonal mouring of boats. Finally.
benefits would also result from the added incremental revenue from visitors,
residing either in hotels or private residences, and from those passing
through Piriapolis on their say to and from Punta del Este and the interior.
These benefits are expected to yield an ERR of about 22Z.
G.   Environmental Aspects
3.21      No adverse environmental impact is expected as a result of works to
be carried out under the roads component of the project. Regarding the ports
.omponent, the Montevideo Master Plan Study (December, 1987) included a
detailed environmental analysis that concluded that the project would not
affect existing pollution levels in the Montevideo Bay. With regard to the
La Paloma port, a hydraulic study carried out by the University of Montevideo
indicated that the construction of the proposed breakwater and deepening of
the ba.in would not cause  any  adverse  environmental impact, but would help
expand adjacent beaches.      In  addition.  during negotiations the Government
agreed at all times to take or  cause  to be taken all necessarv measures and
precautions to ensure ttat the  operation  and maintenance of the ser-ond fish
processing plant, and related  activities,  are  in  full comipliance with its
appli( able environmental protection and pollution contrnl rulls,  regulations,
standards and practices, which at nu time would be less strict than those
presently in effect in the Borrower's territory or stri(ter than those
applicable to the existing fish processing plant at La Paloma.
H.   Project Risks
3.22      The project would  cover  highways,  the  Montevideo port and small
craft ports and involve several  agencies.        There  is, therefore, a risk of
slow project implementation. The project, however, has been designed to take
this into account: a Project Coordinating Unit would be established within
MTOP to coordinate and monitor implementation l ogress. Also, the project's
main thrust would be the far-rerching sector policy and institutional
reforms. Some risk exists that the next Government may falter in carrying
out the agreed reforms.   In  order  to  reduce that possibility, the project
arrangements provide for joint annual reviews to enable the Bank to continue
to have an effective dialogue for the implementation of the reforms.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
A. Subproject Selection
4.01      Most of the components included  in  the project are fully defined,
i.e. civil works in Routes 1, 6 and 7, all port components and technical
assistance and training.      However,  the  rehabilitation  and maintenance of
additional priority highways and bridges, and works to be carried out after



- 23 -
the first year under the departmental roads maintenance program would be
defined during project implementation and agreed with the Bank at the semi-
annual consultation meetings.   In  order  to  be declared eligible under the
loan, civil works still to be defined would have to be technically sound and
economically justified. Annex 7 explains in detail the economic evaluation
criteria to be used for the inclusion of these works. Works that do not
qualify under the preceding eligibility criteria would be replaced by new
ones as agreed upon by the Bank and tho Borrower.
B. Project Execution
4.02      The proposed project would be  completed  in about six years by the
Government through MTOP and ANP.   DNV. within MTOP, would be responsible for
the  implementation  of  the   road   component  including  the  departmental
maintenance  program  for  which   specific  procedures  have  been  designed
(Annex 9). A draft of the model agreement between MTOP and participating
departments for the execution of the maintenance program was reviewed at
negotiations. Signing of the agreement with at least 50Z of the departments
would be a condition for disbursements of the roads and civil works
component.  Two copies of each  agreement  would  be  sent to the Bank.  DNH,
also within MTOP, would be responsible for the La Paloma, Punta del Este and
Piriapolis  port  components  and  ANP  for  the  Montevideo  port component.
Submission  to  the  Bank  of  satisfactory  soil  investigations  and  final
engineering for the closing dike included in the Montevideo port component
would be a condition for disbursements for the construction of the dike. The
exnansion of the water supply system  at  La Paloma port would be carried out
by MTOP with the technical supervision of Obras Sanitarias del Estado (OSE).
Upon completion of these facilities, they would be operated and maintained by
OSE, under an agreement satisfactory to the Bank. The responsibility for the
implementation of the institutional development program would rely on DNV,
DNH and ANP; however, this program would be closely monitored by MTOP.
Dredging at La Paloma, would be carried out by force account by ANP, on
behalf of DNH. The Project Implementation Schedule is given in Chart II.
4.03      The execution of  the  project  would  be coordinated and monitored
through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to be established within the MTOP.
The PCU would be headed by a full-time professional, satisfactory to the
Bank, backed-up by full time professionals from all the agencies cor,cerned.
The PCU would act also as direct liaison with the Bank. The establisl;ment of
the PCU and the appointment of its full-time head would be a condition for
loan effectiveness.    During  negotiations  agreement  was  reached with the
Government on the functions and responsibilities of the PCU.
4.04      The  highway  replacement  and  rehabilitation  programs  would  be
contracted and supervised by DNV strengthened under the Action Plan included
in the project; the maintenance program of departmental roads would be
carried out by the departments assisted by MTOP and DNV (Annex 9). DNH has
adequate capabilities to carry out the procurement and supervision of
construction of  items  under  its  responsibility.    ANP  also has adequate
experience to carry out the procurement of its project items; however, since
responsibilities and functions are not well defined within ANP, a Technical
Unit (TU) would be established to be in charge of procurement and to retain
consultant services. ANP would retain consultants f3r the supervision of
construction. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the responsibilities of the TU within ANP, and on the retention of
supervision consultants by ANIP.    The  establishment  of  the  TU would be a



- 24 -
condition of disbursement of loan proceeds for works and equipment under the
responsibility of ANP.
4.05      The  training  component   for   ANP   would  be  administered  and
implemented with the support of a technical assistance institution. ANP
would establish a Training Steering Committee (TSC), strengthen the existing
Training Center and enter into a contract agreement with a technical
assistance institution satisfactory to the Bank, no later than June 30,
1989. During negotiations agreement was reached on the composition of the
TSC and the Training Center and on the timing for contract signing with a
technical assistance institution. The establishment of the TSC would be a
condition of disbursement of loan proceeds for the ANP training component.
4.06      MTOP, DNV, DNH and  ANP  would  be resj3nsible for the coordination
supervision  and  implementation  of   their  specific  technical  assistance
components. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the respective
agencies on the timing and scope of the technical assistance (Annex 6).
4.07      Implementation of the Actions Plans  would be the responsibility of
the Governmeit through the Economic and Financial Advisory Unit, within MTOP,
with the partic.ipation of all the agencies concerned. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on  maintaining  this  unit.   The strengthening of its
monitoring cepabilities would be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan.
4.08      It  was  agreed  at  appraisal  that,  within  six  months  of  the
completion of the proposed project the Government, with the executing
agencies, would prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to assess the
success in the implementation of the project and the related Action Plans,
including the achievement of financial, operational and other institutional
targets and a general evaluation on the lessons learned from implementation
experience.
C.   Procurement and Consultancy Services
(i) General
4.09      All civil works and goods included in the project would be procured
following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures and Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
,-ith Bank guidelines and subject to limitations in contract values for LCB
set forth in paras. 4.10 and 4.11 below. All ICB contracts would be subject
to the Bank's prior review of the procurement documentation. In addition,
the first five LCB contracts for goods and for works, respectively, will also
be  subject  to  prior   Bank   review   of  the  procurement  documentation.
Consultants would be retained in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants.
(ii) Civil Works
4.10      The proposed Bank  loan  would  help  finance  road civil works for
about US$188.3 million and port civil works for about US$48.7 million. Of
this total, ICB procedures would be followed for works totaling about
US$148.7 million, LCB procedures for works totaling about US$26.7 million,
and works totaling about US$61.1 million (departmental road maintenance)
would be executed by force account. The minimum cost of individual contracts
or of packages of smaller contracts to be tendered following ICB procedures



- 25 -
has been set at US$2.0 million.    The  experience of the last five years has
shown that 17 ICB tenders (five financed by IBRD and 12 by IDB) for similar
and even higher amounts failed to interest foreign contractors. Procurement
of works under LCB procedures, acceptable to the Bank, would allow the
participation of foreign bidders, either on their own or associated on a
voluntary basis with local contractors. Force account would also be used for
the execution of the La Paloma port dredging (US$2.0 million), the latter to
be financed exclusively by the Government and not shown in Table 4.0.
(iii) Goods
4.11      The proposed  Bank  loan  would  also  help  finance acquisition of
computer hardware and software and miscellaneous engineering equipment and
vehicles for highways totaling US$2.1 million and for ports equipment
totaling US$9.7 million. Of this total, ICB procedures would be used for
about US$7.6 million, LCB for about US$1.4 million, Limited International
Bidding (LIB) for about US$0.9 million and Local Shopping (LS) for about
US$1.9 million. The minimum base cost plus taxes of items to be tendered
following ICB procedures has been set at US$0.3 million and -he minimum for
LCB procedures at US$0.05 million; items costing less than US$0.05 million
could be procured by LS.   LIB  procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines
would be followed for computer hardware and software. Awards of contracts
for imported goods would be evaluated on a CIF basis, taking into account the
freight costs quoted freely by each bidder; no restrictions would be impospd
with regard to imported materials  and  goods.   Bid evaluation for equipment
procured under ICB procedures  would  allow  a  margin of preference to local
bidders equivalent to 152 of CIF costs of competitive imports, or the
relevant pre-railing custom duties, whichever is lower.
4.12      During negotiations, agreements  was  reached  with  regards to the
procurement arrangements described above (paras. 4.09 through 4.11). Table
4.0 provides a summary of procurement arrangements for items to be financed
under the proposed Bank and Eximbank loans including physical and price
contingencies:
D.  Disbursements
4.13      Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made against:
(a) 292 of total expenditures of civil works under the highway program,
except for the gravel roads maintenance program;
(b) 302 of MTOP contribution to partially finance the gravel roads
program;
(c) 292 of total expenditures for civil works under the Montevideo port
component;
(d) 312 of total expenditures for civil works under the La Paloma, Punta
del Este and Piriapolis port components;
(e) 60Z of the foreign exchange expenditures of imported goods; 60Z of
the ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured goods; and 502 of local
expenditures for imported goods locally procured;
(f) 502 of foreign and local expenditures for professional services; and
(g) 602 of total expenditures for all training components.



- 26 -
Table 4.0 - PROCUREMENT METHOD
(US$ million)
Total
Project Element               ICB     LCB      LIB      LS     Other    Cost 1/
A. Roads
1.  Civil Works             111.0    16.1      -        -      61.1    188.3
(33.3)   (4.9)    -        -      (18.3)   (56.5)
2.  Equipment                 -       1.4      0.4      0.3     -         2.1
-      (0.6)   (0.2)   (0.1)    -          (0.9)
3.  Technical Assistance    -         -        -        -       0.5       0.5
_       _        _       -       (0.3)    (0.3)
4.  Training                  -       -        _        -       0.7       0.7
_.____   _.__    _.      _.      (0.4)    (0.4)
Subtotal Roads              111.0    17.5      0.4      0.3    62.3    191.6
(33.3)   (5.5)   (0.2)   (0.1)  (19.0)   (58.1)
B. Ports
1.  Civil Works              37.7    10.6      -        -       -        48.3 2/
(12.8)   (2.9)    -        -        -       (15.7)
2.  Equipment                 7.6     -        0.5      1.6     -         9.7
(3.2)    -       (0.3)   (0.7)    -         (4.2)
3.  Technical Assistance 3/ -         -        -        -       3.1       3.1
-    _           -       -       (1.5)    (1.5)
4.  Training 4/               -       -        -        -       1.7       1.7
.      -.       -.      -.      (0.8)    (0.8)
Subtotal Ports               45.3    10.6      0.5      1.6     4.8      62.8
(16.0)   (2.9)   (0.3)   (0.7)   (2.3)   (22.3)
C. MTOP
1.  Technical Assistance    -         -        -        -       0.7       0.7
_       _        _       -       (0.3)    (0.3)
2.  Training                  -       -        -        -       0.1       0.1
_ .____  _.___   -.___   -.___   (0.1)     (0.1)
Subtotal MTOP                 -       -        -        -       0.8       0.8
_.____   _.___   _.      _.      (0.4)    (0.4)
TOTAL                       155.3    28.1      0.9      1.9    67.6    255.2 2/
(49.3)   (8.4)   (0.5)   (0.8)  (21.7)   (80.8)
1/  Including value added tax and all contingencies.
2/ Total does not include dredging at La Paloma, estimated at US$2 m.
3/ Includes supervision of construction.
4/ Includes fellowships and visits abroad.
Notes: Figures in ( ) correspond to the foreign exchange cost component that
would be financed by the Bank.



- 27 -
4.14      Bank funds are expected  to  be disbursed over a six-and-a-half-year
period, in line with the standard profile for transport projects in the
Region. The estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 4.6.
Retroactive financing in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the signature of the Bank loan but after April 30, 1988, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding US$2.0 million equivalent, would be made in respect to
works  at  Punta  del   Este   and   professional  services  included  in  the
Institutional Development Program and for supervision of construction. All
disbursement related matters and retroactive financing were discussed and
agreed upon at negotiations.
E.   Special Account and Auditing
4.15      In order to maintain an  adequate  flow of funds to finance eligible
project expenditures, with a minimum of administrative delay, the Government
would establish a special account in its Central Bank, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.    The  Bank would, upon the Government's
request, deposit an aggregate amount equivalent to a maximum of US$8.0 million
from the loan account into the Bank Special Account, sufficient to cover about
four months of project expenditures.   Records of the Special Account proceeds
and outlays would be available for review by Bank supervision missions and
subject to  annual  audit.    Disbursements  would  be  made  on  the basis of
certified  Statement  of  Expenditures   for   local  expenditures  where  the
contractual values are less than the equivalent of US$300,000 and for foreign
expenditures where contractual values are less than the equivalent of
US$50,000; the corresponding supporting  documentation  would be verified on a
routine  basis  during   the   supervision   process.        During  negotiations
confirmation was obtained of the foregoing arrangements.
4.16      The Tribunal de Cuentas  (TC)  perfo.ms  the external audit for ANP.
TC has recently improved the quality of the auditing work by hiring qualified
accountants.   It  also  performs  commercial  audits  at  the  request of the
clients. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the external auditing
of all entities involved in the proposed project by TC in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles and on the forwarding of the annual audit
reports to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year. The audit will include the Special Account. Should TC not be able to
carry out the audit and issue report on time, private independent auditors,
acceptable to the Bank, would be appointed to complete the task.
F. Project Monitoring and Semi-Annual Consultations
4.17      With re.gard  to  project  monitoring,  in  addition  to the progress
reports to be pr-pared by the Government, the Bank would: (a) annually,
starting  in  mid-1989,  review  the   progress   of  the  Action  Plans,  the
implementation of the agreed recommendations emanating from the technical
assistance components, the progress and results obtained from the training
program and the achievement of port operational targets and financial
covenants; (b) hold semi-annual  consultation  meetings with MTOP (around June
and November) to review progress in the implementation of the roads and ports
component, and to review budget and programs for the upcoming year (further
details for the roads component are provided in Annex 9). During negotiations
these matters were discussed and agreed with the Government and ANP.



- 28 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was  reached  with the Government and
ANP on the following:
(a) to complete the road user charges revenue study by October 31, 1989;
to discuss it with the Bank; and to make the necessary adjustments
to the level of charges by  December  31,  1909, so as to reflect at
least the short-term marginal cost of maintaining and administering
the network (para. 2.07);
(b) to provide necessary foreign exchange and local counterpart funds
required for the project (paras. 2.23(a) and 3.161;
(c) that ANP would restructure its tariffs based on the new costing
system by March 30, 1990 (para. 2.23(b)j;
(d) ANP would not incur any debt, in addition to the proposed loan
unless its net operating revenues remain at least 1.5 times the
annual debt service charges (para. 2.23(c)];
(e) ANP to achieve an operating ratio of 87 in 1990, 84 in 1991, 82 in
1992, 80 in 1993, 80 in 1994, and 79 in 1995 (para. 2.23(d)];
(f) ANP to achieve financial rates of return on revalued fixed assets of
2.0 in 1990, 2.6 in 1991, 2.9 in 1992, 3.3 in 1993, 3.7 In 1994 and
4.0 in 1995 (para. 2.23 (e)];
(g)  to  inform  the  Bank  on  each  updating  of  the  Transport Sector
Expenditure Program (para. 2.30);
(h) that the Government would confirm the start-up of operations of a
second fish processing plant in La Paloma, as a condition for
disbursement of the La Paloma port component (para. 3.06);
(i) operational performance targets for ANP (para. 3.11);
(j) that the Government at all times would take or cause to take all
necessary measures and precautions to ensure full compliance with
its environmental protection and pollution control rules in the
operation and maintenance of the second fish processing plant at La
Paloma, which at no time should be less strict than those presently
in effect in the Borrower's territory or stricter than those
applicable to the existing fish processing plant (para. 3.21);
(k) that signing of the agreements for the departmental maintenance
program between MTOP and at least 50Z of the departments would be a
condition for disbursement of the gravel roads maintenance program
(para. 4.02);
(1) submission to the Bank of soil investigations and final engineering
of the closing dike would be a condition for disbursement for the
construction of the dike for the Montevideo port (para. 4.02);
(m) functions and responsibilities of the PCU (para. 4.03);



- 29 -
(n) responsibilities of the TU within ANP; retention of supervision
consultants by ANP for the Montevideo port component (para. 4.04);
(o) the establishment of the steering committee and TU would be a
condition of disbursements for works, goods and training under ANP's
responsibility (para. 4.04), while the establishment of TSC is a
condition of disbursement of ANP's training component (para. 4.05);
(p) ANP to strengthen the existing training center and enter into a
contract  agreement   with   one   or   more   technical  assistance
institutions, satisfactory to the Bank, for the administration,
coordination and implementation of ANP's training program, no later
than June 30, 1989 (para. 4.05);
(q) the timing and scope of the technical assistance (para. 4.06);
(r)  proposed   implementation   details,   including   procurement   and
disbursement matters,  use  of  the  special  account,  auditing and
project monitoring arrangements  (para.  4.12,  4.15, 4.16, 4.17 and
4.18); and
(s) details of semi-annual consultations (para. 4.18).
5.02      Conditions for loan effectiveness would be:
(a) fulfillment of conditions of disbursement under Eximbank agreement
and the signing of a colenders' agreement between the Bank and
Eximbank (para. 3.16);
(b   effectiveness of a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  satisfactory to the
Bank, between the Government and ANP, for the implementation of the
Montevideo port component (para. 3.17); and
(c) establishment of the PCU (para. 4.03).
(d) the strengthening of the monitoring capabilities of the Economic and
Financial Advisory Unit (para. 4.07);
5.03      Subject to the above  the  project  provides  a suitabie basis for a
Bank loan of US$80.8 million.   The  terms  would be 15 years with a five-year
grace period.



URU6llAY
TR3RT PROJECT I
SMMRY ACMJUNTS COST SUMARY
(N$PESO Million)                 (9JS9 '000)                         Total
- ---------------- ------- ---~----------------------   IZForeign   Baw
Local  Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign   Total      Exchange    Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. HIGHWAY PROGRAM CIVIL WORIYS
1. HIGHWAY LINKS
H1GHWAY REPLACEMENT PROGRAM                               98521.8  96S21.9 17,043.6  33,379.5  33,379.5  66,759.0              50       32
PRID6E REPLACEMENT PROGRAM                                   570.2    570.2  1,140.4   2,233.5   2,233.5   4,467.0            50         2
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM             3,910.2  3.810.2 7?620.4   14,924.5  14,924.5  29,849.0             50       14
BRIDGE REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                254.5    254.5    509.1       997.0      997.0   1,994.0          50        1
GPRAVEL ROADS MAINTENANCE PROGRA!                          6,3B2.5  6,3S2.5 12,765.0   25)000.0  25,000.0  50,000.0            50       24
Sub-Total HIGHWAY LINKS                                      199539.3 19,539.3 39,078.5   76,534.5  76,534.5 153,069.0            50       7 3
Sub-Total HIGHWAY PROGRAM CIVIL WORKS                            19,539.3 19i539.3 34,07L.5   76,534.5  76,534.5 153,069.0           50       73
B. ANP PROGRAM CIVIL WORKS
1. MONTEVIDEO
CLOSING MIKE                                                 420.4    630.6  1,051.1    1,646#8  2,470.2  4,117.0              60        2
CONTAINER TERMINAL IMPROVEMENTS                              157.8    105.2   263.0        618.0      412.0   1,030.0          40        0
REMODELLING PORT AREAS                                     1,509.5  1,235.0  2,744.5   5,912.5   4,837.5  10,750.0             45        5
WORKSHOPS, AN2SLLARY BUILDINGS AND MISCELLANEOUS              181.1    120.7   301.8        709.2     472.8   1,182.0          40        1
_  -     -   ---   --   ----   --   -- - - -   -- - - -   -- -- --   -- - -- - -- - -
Sut-Total MiONTEYIDE                                          2,9268.7  2,091.5  4,360.3   .9886.5   8,192.5  17,079.0            48        8
2. SUPERV!S!DN OF CONSTRUCTION
SUPERVISION CONSULTANTS                                       26.9    127.6    154.5        105.0     500.0     605.0          83        0
_-- -   -- -- -   -- -- -  -- - - -   -- - - -   -- -- --  --------- . -__ ---
ESb-Tot2l SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION                            26.P    127.6    154.5        105.0     500.0     605.0          93        0
________  _____ ___    ___- ------  _-___---- ---- - -- _----- -----  -----   ------
Sub-Tota! ANP PROGRAM CIVIL WORKS                                2,.9S.5  2,219.2  4.514.7    8.991.5   8,692.5 127684.0             49        9             -
C. DNH PRCORAM CIVIL WORKS                                                                                                                                   0.
1. LA PALOMA                                                                                                                                              4
NORTH£NE  BPEAK!WATEP                                        ?79.6  1,169.4  1I949.0   3,053.6  4,580.4   7i634.0              60        4
DREDGING                                                     114.9   269.1    e38.0        450.0  1,050.0   1,500.0            70        1
WATER SUPPLY                                                  206.4    204.2    510.6   1200.0       800.0  2,000.0           40        1
-------- -------- -------- -P-- -   - ---   - - -1  - -------  -- - ---- -.  - --
Sub-Tct3l LA PAL01!A                                           1,:00.B  1.641.?  2B842.5    40703.6   69430.4  1't134.Q           5S        5



2. PUNTA "E! FET
(IAPNA PERTH9 EXTE4S:ON                                              2.2    319.2 n     _c    1,0i.5   1,246.'   2.493.Q                 'Q
S. -T  'a!'PUJNTA BEL ESTE                                            '1.-   31 .2  636.5    1,246!.    1j246.5   2,493.I
_. PIRIAPOI'
BREAYWATERP-.DE AND f'REDGING                                      570.'  1,331.4  1'902.0   2',235.0   !.215.D  l'450.O                  ?Q          4
'EF. SiKAT-REP1IR AND P4'JING                                      251,5    251.5    502.9          995.0      995.0   199?0.0            50         1
9ub-Tctzi FIRIAPOLIS                                                  922.1  1,592.9  2,404.9        3p220.C    0t:0.2   9,420.0              66         5
Eub-Tota1 rNH PROCRAM CIVIL WORK.S                                     2,341.1  3,542.2  5,983.9    ?P170.1  13,'6.   2.047.0 o0                           11
C. 4qP DPOGRAM E£0U1PMENT
CLNTAINER vAhD AND CARGO HANDLINE EQUIP4ENT                             "1.'    1'4.'    231.3        2"2.7       643.3       90'.0           ?1         0
MAINTENANCE EQU2PffENTY YACHINERY AND TDOLS                            10!.2    24'.?    34°.0         396.4       07r     1,36?.0            '1         1
DOWER SUPFLv EQUIPMENT 4ND MATERIALS                                 2qe  o    ?10.6  110!3.5    1,151.3   2,s1e.?   !,o'0.0                  71         2
£ub-Tct'2  ANF PROGRAM EQUI:'MEN7                                         462.2  1.131.6  1,593.    19910.5   4t432.5   6,243.0                 71         3
E. AN' INS'TITU'INA! DEVEQLOPIENT PROCRA0
1. TECHNICAL ASSIS'ANCE nNF
M.ANAGEMEN  CONSULT4NTS                                             215    102Q.1    123.6           .4.0      400.0      494.0           9t         0
FPO   OPERATIONS CON_ULTANTF                                        16.1      ?6.6      92.?         63.0      300,0      363.0           83         0
F3OfT MAINTENANCE C-NSULThNTS                                       I6,.      ?6.'      ?-'          63.0      300.0      363.0           93         0
fANAGEMENT INFORMATION  %._:JLTANTS                                 16.1      '6.-      92.7         63.0      300.0      363.0           83         0
MA4R',ET1NG CONSULTANTS                                              2.?      !2.7      15.3         10.4       49.6       60.0           23         0
ENGINEERING STUDIES (D!;E'                                          15.5      ?3.2      99.4         60'.s     29.2       350.0           S3         0
Su--Tctal TECHNICAL ASSISTANfCE ANP                                    O7.9    4'9.4    506.3          344.2   19632.8  1?83.0              B3
2, TRAINING ANP
TRAINING CONSULTANTS                                                39.9    le0.0    _29.9          156.2      ?43.S      900.0           83         0
SCHOLCA_SIDS ABROAD                                                    -      33.4      33.4            -      1.31.0     131.0          100         01
L"CCAL  EMi4ARS                                                      5.5      2,r       31.4         21.4      101.6      123.0           o3         r
TRAi1INn .ELATED STUAErEr                                            9.1      38.4      46.5         31.6      150.4      1S2.0           23         0
Sut-Tct2i  ckIANqiNG ANC                                               S3.4    25'2    '41.1           20Q.2  1t126.2   11336.0              84          .
3. EDUI'MEEk'                                                                                                                                                                   I.
COMPUTEO oJARDWARE AND SOFTWAPE                                        -      '6.6      '6.             -      300.0      300.0          100         0                    o
T4AfINI  EOkU1'EYT AND MATERIALS                                        -     25.5      25.5            -      100.0      100.0          I00   "
9F±-TCtal EOVIPMENT                                                        -    '02.1    102.1                    100.0       400.0         "00          0
--:2-.Tctzl AN"  S4"IT'TIOCNAL PEI:E1!DENT PROGRAM                        .41.3    808,2    049) ,        55'.JA  '"5.'   Zv'19.0                5s         2



F. D# EQUIPiENT
1. LA PALOMA
TREAThENT PLANT                                              96.2   235.6   331.9        377 O     923.0   1.300.0         71        1
Sub-Total LA PALOMA                                             96.2   235.6   331.9        377.0    923,0   1,300,0          71         1
Sub-Total MNN EQUIPMENT                                            96.2   235.6    331.9       377,0    923.0   1,300,0          71         1
6. HIGHAY INSTITUTIONAL DEVE.DPMENT PRMORAM
-------------------------------------
16 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE HIGHUAYS
____________________________
PLANNING CONSULTANTS                                          5.1    24,5    29.6         20.1      95.9    116.0          83         0
SOIL AND MATERIALS LAB CONSULTANTS                            5.1    24,5    29.6         20.1      95,9     116.0         83         0
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS                                1,3      6.1      7,4        5.0      24.0      29.0         83         0
MAINTENNCE MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS                             3,6    17,3    20.9         14,2      67.8      82,0          83        0
EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS                              5,4    25.7    31,1         21 2     100.8      122.0         83        0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE HIGHWAYS                         20.6    98,1    118,7        80.7     384.3      465,0         83        0
2. TRAINING HIGHUAYS
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES AND WORKING VISITS ABROAD             -     30,1     30.1          -     119.0     119.0        100         0
COURSES/SEMINAR LOCAL                                           -    11361   113.1           -     443,0      443.0        100        0
Sub-Total TRAINING HiGHWAYS                                        -    143.2    143.2          -    561.0       561,0        100        0
3. EQUIPMENT
COMPUTER HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE                               25,3    62.0      87.3       99.2     242.8      342.0         71        0
LABORATORY EQUIPMENT                                         38.1    93.4    131.5       149.4    365.7       515,0         71        0
SURVEYING EOUIPMENT                                          35.5    87.0   122,5        139.2    340.8    480.0            71        0
WEIGHING SCALES                                               l.8     29.0     40.8       46.4     113.6      160.0         71        0
LIGHT VEHICLES                                               21.3     52.2     73.5       83.5    204,5       288,0         71        0
Sub-Total FqUIPMENT                                            132,2   323,6    455.7       517.7   1,267,4   1,785.0          71        1
Sub-Total HIGHWAY INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM               152.8   564,9    717?6       598.4  2,212.6   2,811.0           79        1
H. MTOP INSTITUTIONAL DEELOPMENT PROGRAM
1 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
SMALL CRAFT POPT CONSULTANTS                                  4,4     21.'    25.5        17.4       32.6     100,0         93        0
DREDGING CONSULTANTS                                          5.4    25.5    30.9         21.0    100.0       121.0         83        0
TRANSPORT PLANNING CONSULTANTS                               16.1    76.6      92.7       63.0    300.0    363,0            33        0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                  25.9    123.2    149,1       101.4     482.6    584.0          83        0
2. TRAINING MTOP



INTENTIONAL CONFERENCES AND WORKING VISITS ABROAD       -          2E.6       26.6         -         100.0      100.0  100      0
Sub-Total TRAINING MTOP                                 -          26.6        26.6        -         100.0       100.0  100     0
Sub-Total riTOP INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM      25.9       148.7       174.8      101.4       682.8       684.0  86      0
Total BASELINE COSTS                               26,064.3   28,190.3   53,244.B   98,138.8  110,420.2  208,567.0  53   100
Physical Contingencies                            2,820.2    2,930.0    6,660.2   10,263.3   11,476.6   21,739.9  53    10
Price Contingencies                               3,241.0    3,618.0    8,867.0   12,694.7   14,183.9   28,868.8  63    13
Cofinancing Foe                                       -           -           -          -         286.0       265.0  100     0
Total PROJECT COST                                 30,916.6   34,736.3   66,851.8  121,094.7  138,335.7  267,420.6  63   123
ee=          - e                  e=ee                   -              =  e
October 12, 1988
Ig 
(D f~



URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PRDJECT I
Financinm  Plan bs Sumatu, Accounts
(US$ '000)
INTERNATIONAIL
BAWi FOR                                         GOVERNMENT OF THE
RECONSTRUCTION                     NATIONAL PORT   ORIENTAL REPUBLIC
AND DEVELOPMENT  EXII4PANK JAPAN  ADMINISTRATION       OF UPUGUAY            TotaiI
---------------  --------------  --------------  -----------------  ---------------                    Local 'E:c:l. Duties t
Anount    X       Asount  X       Ahount    _        Amount      7     hAoant      %    For. E;:ch.      Tayes)       Ta:es
1. INVESTMENT COFTS
A. "IrvNy¢t PPOGRAr "'!!YRt.
.HIGHi1AV L !HO,r
SINWAY REPLACEMENT rROGFAM                                   24.B9°,.  30.0   23i654.9 28.5             -     -    34t444.7   41.5   82,999.3  32.3    i1,49,7.          23,339.4  18,1'0.3
PRIDHE REFLACEIEK4  PROERAN                                   1.654.4  30.0    1-571.6 28.5            -      -     2o298.5   41.5    59514.6   2.1        2,757.3        1.550.?   1.206.6
HIGHWAY PEHAP!L!1AT4ON ANT MA1NT'NANCE PR0GRAM               10i999.4  30.0   10-344.0 28.5             -          150t2.2   41.5   369294.6  14.1    18147.3            !0.?06.0   79041.3
PR!OGE FEYPi?LITATION AND MAINTENAHCE  'ROGRA1                  '115.S  30.0       680.0 28.5          -      -       900.2   41.5    29386.1   0.°        1-1°3.0          "'1.0      522.1
GRAVEL Pt'A1S MAINTENANCE *POGRA4                            1?9322.3  30.0   1',401.2 28.5             -     -    25,745.8   41.5   61Y74.2'  23.'    306537.1            ,4E0.8   6,046.^
u'y~!ot~l U'e W( u   !NSS                                      56,480.6  30.0   5?.656.6 28.5             -     -    'IO131.5   41.5  188.268.8  73.2    949134.4          10.257.9  !3sP'6.5
Sub-Tvte! HTGHWAv "IOERAM C!VIL WOFRS                               56,480.6  30.0   53.656.6 29.5            -     -    78,131.5   41.5  IBB2'-8.8  7'.2    94,134.4          J0.257.9  33,9876t5
p. ANr RIp.AM C!VIL YORNS
1. MONTEV IDEO
CLOSING DIKE                                                   1,015,0  36.0    14639.2 30.8   19766.9  33.2            0.0    0.0    59322.0   2.1        3.193.2          964.4   1,164.5
CONTAINER TERMINAL IMPRO'.VEMENTS                                315.0  24.0       343.8 26.2      653.6  49.B             -      -    1,312.4   0.5         524.9          500.3      2B7.1
REMODELLING PORT AREAS                                         3,729.8  27.0    3,7)7.1 27.4   69304.4  45.7            0.0    0.0   139810.3   5.4        6,214.6        4s574.0   3,021.7
WORKSHOH', ANCILLARY PUILDINGS AND MISCELLANEOUS                 369.7  24.0       402.5 26.2      765.0  49.B             -      -    1536.1   0.6         614.5          585.6      336.1
Sub-Total MONTEVIDEO                                              6,328.4  28.8    hl62.6 28.0   9t499.9  43.2              0.0    0.0   21.980.8   8.5    109547,3          6.624.2   4,809.4
2. SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION
SUPERVISION CONSULTANTS                                          391.0  49.6       260.6 33.1          -      -       136.9   17.4        788.5   0.3        651.6            0.0      136.9            03 lo;
Sub-Total SUPER'ISION OF CONSTPUCTION                               391.0  49.6       260.6 33.1           -     -        136.9   17.4       7e8.5   0.3        651.6             0.0     136.9             D.-
Sub-Total ANP PROGRAM C!IVL WORKS                                    6,719.3  29.5    6.423.3 28.2   9489.?  41.7            136.9    0.6   22p769.3   9.9    11.198.9          69624.2   49946.3              0
_-                                                                                                                                               r         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hi 



C. DOd PROGRAII CIVIL MR(
1. LA PALOtA
NORTHERN DREAKATER                                           3,363.5  36.0    2,S77.7 30.B          -     -     3,101.9  33.2   9,343.1   3.S'    5.60'.9          1.93.0   204?4.!
DEIEDSING                                                          -     -          -    -          -     -     1,914.8  100.0    1.914.8   0.?      1e340.4          5.4.4
WATER SUPPLY                                                   596.7  24.0      651.4 26.2          -     -     1.238.1   49.8    2i486.2  1.0 "    994.5            94'.?      544.5
Sub-Total LA PALDIA                                             3.960.2  28.8    3P529.1 25.7          -     -    6.254.8  45.5  131.44.1   5.!         't940.7       3F215.1   2.5S.2
2. PUNTA DEL ESTE
MRINA DERTHS EXTENSION                                        875.6  30.0       931.8 28.5         -     -      1t211.3   41.5    29918.7  1.1      1,459.4          820.7     639..
Sub-Total PUNTA DEL ESTE                                          875.6  30.0      831.8 28.5          -     -     t,211.3   41.5    2t918.?   1.1    I.459.4           820.7     638.6
3. PIRIAPOLIS
BREAMMATER,DIKE AND DREDGING                                3o834.1  42.0    3,021.6 33.1           -     -     2,273.1   24.9   9S12'.8 '.5         61390.2         '41.3   1,997.4
BERTHS,BOAT-REPAIR AND PAYJING                                724.2  30.0       688.0 28.5          -     -     1,001.8  41.5    2,413.9   .Q        1,20'.?         08,.8      522.2
Sub-Total FIRIAPOLIS                                           4.558.3  39.5    39709.6 32.1                 -     3,274.9   28.4   15.'  4.'             1'.1         1,420.1   2.525.-
Sub-Totdl D6N  PROGRAI' CIVIL WORKS                               9,394.1  33.3    8070.5 28.'                       10,741.0  38.1   29,'25.2  11.0    1',997.2          5,4!., c     ,-5-.4
D. ANP PROGRAM EQUIPMENT
CONTAINER YARD AND CARGO HANDLING EOUIPIENT                      483.7  42.0       322.5 28.4                -       329.7  20.0    1.13'.'   '.4         9^f.2             1      !20.3            t
tAINTENMNCE EQUIPMENT. MACHINERY AND TOOLS                        727.4  42.6      484.9 28.4          -             495.2   2Q,.0    1'07.5   O.'   1,21>4                c2
POVER SUPPLY EOUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                           2,039.8  42.6    19359.9 28.4           -           1,388.6   29.0    4-78S.    1.9                               1 '.o    ,.:
Sub-Total ANP PROGRAN EQUIPMENT                                   3,250.9  42.6    2-167.3 28.4                 -    2,213.1   29.0   ',.31.3   3.0        5,411.2            0.c   2. 13.!
E. ANP INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AMP
MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS                                        285.4  49.6       190.3 37.'                -        99.9   17.4      575.6   e.2        4'.' *                     9.
PORT OPERAT!-l'1 £ON5.ULTfNTS                                 214.1  49.6       142.' 7 3!..         *             74.9   17.4      431.'   0.2        3f"..                     '4.M
PORT MAINTENANCE CONG6aTANTS                                  214.1  41.6       142.7 33.          -      -        74.9   17.4      431.7 ?   .2       3".Z           -?         74.0
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CONSULlANTS                            214.1  49.6       142.7 33.1                         74.9  17.4       431.'   0.2        316.3            .'        4 o
ARIE?tlNG CNiSULTANTS                                          35.5  49.6        23.7 33.1         -     -         12.4  17.4        .1.7  0.0          50.2           O         1Q2.4
ENSINEERING STUDIES (DIKE)                                    204.3  49.6       136.2 33.1         -      -        71.5   17.4      412.1   D.2        340.6                      1.5
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ANP                             1,167.5  49.6       778.3 33.1          -     -       408.8  17.4    2e354.6   0.9       1.945.9           ,.       q0Q.8
2. TRAINING ANP
TRAINIKG CONSULTANTS                                          554.7  49.6       369.8 33.1         -              194.2   17.4   Itll8.9   0.4                                               co 9) !94.
SrIIL.ARSMIPS ABWD                                             97.7  60.0        65.1 40.0         -                         -      162.8  0.1         162.e
LOCAL SEINARSM                                                 75.8  49.6        50.5 33.1             -           26.5  17.4       152.9   0.1        12-.4            -1       2,.5 
TRAINING RELATED STUDIES                                      112.2  49.6        74.8 33.1         -      -        39.3   17.4      22b.2   0.1        IS'.0                     39.3
Sub-Total TRAINING AMP                                            840.4  50.6      560.3 33.7          -     -       260.0   15.7  1660.B   0.6        1-4;^.7            0.0    260.J           7  '



3. EQUIPIENT
COMPUTER HADUARE AND SOFTARE                                 224.0  60.0      149.9 40.0          -     -           -      -      374.7  0.1        3?4.7
TRAINING EOUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                              71.4  60.0       47.6 40.0         -      -           -      -      118.9  0.0        119.9             -
Sub-Total EQUIPMlENT                                            296.2  t0.0      197.5 40.0          -     -                         493.7   0.2       493.?
Sub-Total AMP INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                  2,304.1  51.1    1,536.1 34.1          -     -       668.8   14.8    49509.0   1.9    3.840.2             0.0    668.8
F. DNlt EOUIPHENT
1. L1 PALOIA
WhfATMENT PLANT                                              678.6  42.6       452.4 20.4         -     -       462.0  2Q.0    1,59. 0     .2      17!.;  -i.O              9  0 1
_- - - -   -- -  -- - - - . - - - - - -     - -  - - - - - - - -   ....   *...  ..   .....  -- - - -
Sub-Total LA PALONA                                             678.6  42.6       452.4 28.4               -       462.0  29.0    1,592.9   0..      1121.0             i. c       '
Sub-Total DNH EQUIPNENT                                            679.6  42.6       452.4 2t.4               -       462.'5  29.0    1,'92.0  '..      :31.0              ,.'     1'.;
G. HIGHWAY INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAN
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE HIGHWAYS
PLANNING CONSULTANTS                                          71.1  49.6        47.4 33.1         -     -        24.9  17.4       143.4  0.1        11°.2
SOIL AND HATERIALS LAD CONSULTANTS                            66.?  49.6        44.5 33.1               -        23.4  17.4       134.6  0.1        !11.2           0.0      23.1
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS                                16.?  49.6        11.3 3?.1               -         5.9   17.4       34.2   0.i        22.2            .0 o         9
MAINTENANCtE MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS                            1?.2  49.6       31.4 !_.                -        16.5   17.4       95.1   0.0        '8.6           i.O       *
EOUIPMENT IANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS                               ?3.2  49.6       48.8 33.1         -     *        25.6  17.4       14'.?  0.1        '22.0 
Sub-Tdtal TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE HIGHWAYS                          275.1  49.6      183.4 33.1         -     -        96.3  17.4       554.9  0.2         4!8.8           0.1
2. TRAINING HIGHWAYS
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES AND WORKING VISITS ABROAD            85.5  60.0       57.0 40.0         -     -           -      -       142.4  0.1        142.4
COURSES/SEMINAR LOCAL                                         317.9  60.0      212.0 40.0         -     -            -             529.9  0.2        529.9
Sub-Total TRAINING HIGHWAYS                                      403.4  60.0      268.9 40.0          -     -           -             672.4   0.2        S'D.                                         
3. EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                                                                                       (IQ  f
(0
0.



Table 4.2
Page 4 of
COPCTER HAFARfE AND SOFTWARE             168.5   42.6    112.4   28.4      -       -      114.7    29.0      395.6      0.2    280.0       0.0       114.7
LABORATORY EQJIPMENT                     265.3   42.6    176.9   28.4      -       -      180.6    29.0      622.8      0.2    422.2       0.0       180.6
SURVEYINC E4JIPHEhT                      260.1   42.6    173.4   28.4      -       -      177.1    29.0      610.6      0.2    433.5       0.0       177.1
WGIIHIN SCALES                            81.4   42.6     54.3   28.4      -       -       55.4    29.0      191.2      0.1     135.7    -0.0         55.4
LI*fT VB4ICLES                           137.6   42.6     91.7   28.4      -       -       93.7    29.0      323.0      0.1     229.3      0.0       93.7
Sub-Total EQUIPR4ENT                913.0   42.6    608.7   28.4      -        -      621.5    29.0    2,143.2      0.8   1,521.7    -0.0       621.5
Sub-Total HI-WAY INSTITUTIONAL DEV. PROC.  1,691.5   47.2  1,061.0   31.5  -       -      717.9    21.3    3,370.4      1.3   2,652.6      0.0       717.9
H. MTOP HI-WAY INSTrr lONAL DEV. PROq.
L. TECHNICAL ASSI5T 
SMALL CRAFT PORT CONSJLTANTS          60.3   49.6    40.6   33.1        -       -      21.1    17.4       121.6     0.0      100.5     0.0        21.1
CREDCINC CONSULTANTS                  71.4   49.6    47.6   33.1        -       -       25.0    17.4      143.9     0.1      118.9     0.0        25.1
TRANSPORT PLANNINC CONSULTANTS       210.6   49.6    140.4   33.1       -       -       73.8    17.4      A24.8     0.2    351.1       0.0        73.8
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTACE       342.3   49.6    228.2   33.1       -       -      119.8    17.4      690.3      0.3     570.5     0.0       119.8
2. TRAININC HTOP
INTERATIONAL COINECES AND VDINC
VISrm ABOAD                           70.7   60.0    47.1   40.0       -        -       -        -        117.8     0.0     117.8      -           -
Sub-Total TRAINIMN KrOP                   70.7   60.0    47.1   40.0       -       -        -       -        117.8      0.0     117.8      -
COFTNANCINO FE E                                  -      265.0  100.0      -       -        _       _        265.0      0.0    265.0
Total INVEtTMiT COSTS                 80,832.2   31.4 73,907.5   28.6  9,489.9    3.7 93,190.9    36.2  257,420.5    100.0 136,325.7 72,338.0   48,756.7
Total DIS8USEMENT                     80,832.2   31.4 73,907.5   28.6  9,489.9    3.7 93,190.9    36.2  257,420.5    100.0 138,325.7 72,338.0   48,756.7
-C=                n  .   .   _--1n-
Oetob.,r 12, 1988



LU&aIAY
TRNSPOftT PJ                                                                                           Table  4.3
F..n.c;nq Plan by Pe;.t Cponent&                                                                               Page  1  of  1
(US 000)
INTERNATIONWAL                                               )ERENT OF
BA   FOR                                                     flE ORIENTAL
ReCONSTR!CTION                           NATIONAL PORT       FtEPUBLIC OF
AWD OEVELOPIT       EXDIMANK JAPAN       ADI4INISTRATION      IRtSAY                 Total
Amount      S       Amnt         s       Amount      s        Amount      s      Amount       s    rorigrn E.ch. Local (E.c. Tas.s)   Out;. a  To.**
A. HIGaAY PROIRAN
CIVIL WORKS                            54,480.6  30.0       83,656.  628.5                           78,131.5  41.5    188,268.8  73.2    94,12  .4             60,257.9             33.876.5
--- ---    - - - --  ------   - -- - -     -- -    ----       -------  -  -    - - - - -   ---     -------              --- ---              -- -- -
Sub-Total HI@AY PROOM                     56,480.6  30.0       53.e66.6  26.6            -     -        7,131.5  41.5    188,268.8  73.2   94,124.4                60.257.0             33,876.5
8. HIOtAY INsTITUTImAL DEV. PROMaM
TECHICAL ASSISTANCE                     1,591.5  47.2        1,061.0  31.5            -     -           717.9  21.3       3,370.4   1.3    2,652.6                   0.0                717.9
Sub-Total HIIWAY D6T'L OEV. PROO.          1,32.5  47.2         1,061.0  31.5            -     -           717.9  21.4       3,870.4   1.3      2,62.6                  0.0                717.9
C. ANP PROaN
CIVIL WORS                              6,719.3  29.8       6,42S.3  28.2        9,487.9  41.7          136.9   0.6      22,769.3   8.9    11,198.9              6,624.2              4,946.3
EOUIPSNT                                3,250.9  42.6        2,167.3  28.4           -      -         2,218.1  29.0       7,631.3   3.0     5,418.2                 -0.0              2213.1
TEqICAL ASSISTANCE                      2,804.1  51.8            -     -            668.8  14.8       4,509.0   1.8       4,809.0   1.8     8,380.2                  0.0                66.6                   I
-- - - --  - ---    -- -- ---  - ---     -- -- ---  - ---     -- -- ---  - ---  - -- -- ---   ---    - -- -- ---         -- -- ---            -- -- ---
Sub-Total ANt PROMaM                      12,274.4  86.2       10,126.6  29.0        9,489.9  27.2       3,018.    8.6      24.909,.7  13.6   20,457.3              6,624.2              7,826.2
0. CM SMALL ORAFT PORT PROWU
CIVIL WOK                               9,294.1  88.3        8,070.5  28.6            -     -        10,741.0  86.1    28,205.6  11.0    16,"97.2                5,485.9              5,782.4
ERJIPPWT                                  678.6  42.6          452.4  28.4           -      -           462.0  29.0       1,892.9  0.         .131.0                -0.0                462.0
-- - - --  - ---    -- -- ---  - ---       -- --- -- ---     - -- -- ---  - ---  -- -- ---          -- -- ---            - -- ---             -- -- ---
Sub-Totl CMN SMALL CRAFT PORT PROWAN   10,072.7  86.8           S,M.9  28.6              -     -        11,202.9  37.6      29,798.6 8   .o    18,128.2             5,468.9              6,214.1
E. KMOP D4STITUTIONAL DEVIELOPW PROO.
TE94XCAL ASSISTANCE                       413.0  51.1          275.3  84.1            -     -           119.8  14.8         80M.1   0.8        681.8                 0.0                119.8
~~~~~- - - --  - - --              -- - -- -- - --      -- - --  -- --              - --      -- - --            -- -- - --            - -- --
Sub-Total  OP  DST'L DEV. PROWAN             413.0  81.1          278.3  84.1            -     -            119.8  14.8        8m.61   0.8        688.8                 0.0                119.8
~~~~~-- - --  - - --              -- - -- -- - --      -- - -- - - --     -- - --   - --     -- - --            -- ----                ---
C0FDWCNcx FEE                               -     -            265.0 100.0            -     -
Total D.bu,..amwt                         80,832.2  31.4       73,907.0  28.6        9,209.9   3.7      93,190.0  38.2    257,420.0 100.0   136,060.7              72,38.0             48,786.7
October 12. 198



TRA6PORT PROJECT I
Financing Pltn by Foreign EzchangwAocal/Temaa
(US$ 000)
114TENATIONAL                                       OJVERNT OF
AWz FOR                                             TME ORIENTAL
RWBCITION                          NATIONAL PORTr    REWIAC OF
AM DoEVEL.W,      EltGl  JAPAN     AMINISTRATUON     UIAY                 To" I
AmotSnt   I       AmountS   I      Aent,t     3      Aiunt      I     Ammnt      S      Foreign each.   Local (Ecl. Ta...)    Dutie   Toe.
A. CIVIL WiRe          56,460.6 30.0      s,66.1.e 28.5         -    -       78,131.5 41.5   166,268.8 73.2       94,1I4.4          60,257.9          33s,7e.6
s. EJInU4r HI-WAYS        910.0 42.6        606.7 28.4          -    -          621.5 29.0    2.143.2  0.8         1.,21.7             -0.0              621.5
C. T6CH. ASTACE HI-WAYS 278.1 49.e          188.4 33.1          -    -           96.3 17.4       084.9  0.2          486.8              0.0               96.3
D. TRAINING HI-WAYS       408.4 60.0        266.9 40.1          -    -            -    -          72.4  0.3         672.4                -
E. CIV. W      TEYIOED 6,32.4 28.8        6,162.6 28.0      9,469.9 43.2         0.0  0.0    21,960.8  8.5        10,547.3           6,624.2           4,909.4
F. E4.11FT  UETEVD      3,U47.1 43.7      2,864.8 29.1         -    -         2,213.1 27.2     8,128.0  3.2        8,911.9              -0.0           2,213.1
C. TECH. ASIS1MNCE AtC   1,586.4 49.6     1,039.0 33.1          -    -          S48.6 17.4    8,143.0  1.2         2,597.4             -0.0              s45.6
H. TRAINI AW              840.4 80.6        860.3 33.7          -    -          260.0 18.7    1.660,6  0.6         1.400.7               0.0             260.0
1. CIVL WU   LA PALMA  8,940.2 28.8       S,52S.1 25.7         -    -         6.264.8 45.5   13,744.1  5.3         7,940.7           S.21!.1           2,806.2
J. CIV. wn  P. DEL ESTE   878.e6 30.0       881.  28.5         -    -         1.211.3 41.5    2,918.7  1.1         1,439.4             620.7            636.6
K. CIVIL WOM  PIRIAPOLS 4,858.3 89.5      8,709.6 32.1          -    -        3,274.9  28.4    11,842.7  4.8       7,897.1           1,420.1           2,s25.6
L.  JIPENrT LA PALDA      68.6 42.6         482.4 28.4          -    -          462.0 29.0     1,892.9  0.6        1,131.0              -0.0             4e2.0
N. TEC. ASSISTANCE KTWF    342.3 49.6       226.2 38.1          -    -          119.6  17.4      690.3  0.3         S.8                 0.0             119.6
N. TRAININO 1TOP           70.7 60.0         47.1 40.0          -    -            -    -         117.8  0.0          117.8               -                 -
0. COFINWACI  FEE           -    -        2,s0o.0 100.0         -    -            -    -         265.0  0.0           -                  -                 -
Total Dibur-s"nt    80,832.2 31.4     73,907.5 28.6      9,489.9  3.7    93,190.9 36.2   257,420.6 100.0      136.060.7          72,338.0          48,75s.7                 OQ O
foi-
asw.= S. SXfse sac                                                                         =mtacss                        swa cBw=tBsacm" = ^XwtD_B Z
0O
4I-



UtMUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Financing Plan by Foreign Exchang./Local/Tmxes
(US$ 000)
INTERNATIONAL                                    GOVERMENT OF
BANK FOR                                        TWDE ORIENTAL
RECONSTRUCTION     EXISANK      NATIONAL PORI     REPUBLIC OF
AND DEVELOPMENT      JAPAN      ADMINISTRATION      URUGUAY         Total
AMOSNT         AMOUNT          AMOWUNT           AMOUNT       AMOUNT
_    ~=                       =                 =   O=
I.    Foreign               80,832.2       64,l63.2             -             1,340.4      188,060.7
II.   Local (Excl. Taxes)       -          19,764.3         4,680.6          47,903.2       72,838.0
III. Taxxs                                      -           4,809.4          48,947.3       48,758.7
Total Project               80,832.2        73,907.5        9,489.9          93,190.9      267,420.6
October 12, 1988
I-'
..



- 41 -
TABLE 4.6
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Financing
(in US$ million)
By the end of                    Disbursements
Fiscal Year                 Annual   Cumulative                 Percentage
1989                       8 0          8.0                     10
1990                      10.0         18.0                     22
1991                      18.0         36.0                     45
1992                      21.0         57.0                     71
1993                      15.0         72.0                     89
1994                       7.0         79.0                     98
1995                       1.8         80.8                   100
Assumptions
Loan Signing Date:            January 31, 1989
Loan EffectiveneFs:           March 31, 1989
Project Completion:           February 28, 1995
Loan Closing Date:            August 31, 1995
October 1988



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
zAlinidteio de iCZan6paoe
SECREiAR'A
September 12, 1988.
Mr. S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Husain:
Ref.: Uruguay - Transport Project I
Please find attached herewith the Actions Plan for the
ins;titutional strenghtening of the Ministry of Trans-
portation and Public Works of Uruguay, as a whole, and
particularly of the General Directorates of Highways -
and Hydrography and of the National Administration of
Ports.
Very sincerely,
/
'  .    "      -    -
'JO     aiul  e Tt neti
Minister o4,Tyanspa# t and Public Works
11~~~~~~1



- 43 -
uE~iAY                                             Page 2 of 7
TRMNSF PROECr I
HUP's Actim Plas for Trssrt Sector Ref oz
JCTIVES                  MMi                    MrAcN                    RESPQIS        TDMI             DAPACT
IBLm                           EIAE
I. ?)Pl
1. M t
and PI1MiAg
StresgtI1  1.fl!    Prepare a           Develop an  ateridal Mrmnsport-  HMP, Cais.    12/89         ITprve national
Wmet and            Transportation      ation Model to assist  agmt                                   t portate
planning            P1laig Mtdel    in plarning and hdgeting t1m                                      planing.
capabilities        (CTh)               five-year NationaL Trasxport-
ation Plan.
Prepare a Tech-   -Ptovide Training Progras to       MKW, Cons.    12/91         laprove national
nical Assistance   strergthen   iqwp t in                                        transportation
Progrma            national transportation policy,                               plamning.
and national traswportatimu
planning and b ideting.
-Provide training progpns for    MIOP, Cons.   12/91         lTarmo  plarnnig
staff of modal agencies                                       of mndal
planrdng units.                                               investmnEts.
To eisure            Institute         -Review road user charge            MIoP, Cons.                Possible increases
aafficient cost     appropriate        receipts for 1985, 86 and 87 and                               in road-user
recowery for         road-user          for 1988 to 1993.                                             charges.
highwy use.         dcrges.            -Establish adequate leyels of           MIOP       10/89
charges to ensure cost recovery.
-Discuss results and reoo eda-         MO         11/89
tions with the Bank.
-Imqlemt the agreemnts from            MIOP       12/89 - 7/90
the disazssions.
Establish a        -Assign the function of user-           MIOP       6/89
achiwd.m for       Charge Monitoring to MMT.
ue?Dostng          -Develop the mchaiidasb            MTCP (UNT)     12/89
,1,;j a ,e



-44 -ANKI
Page 3 of 7
O&TECUM              INSMMW                     ACTICN                  IZE;NS-         TD2                 ACG
IL. RAS
1. P!
Strsnthen tke       Upgrab Hilly    -Preparatiao of a rolling FiPe         tW, Go(.         12/89     Inproed
pLangW capacity    Plannig in ItN.  Year PI    trwest  and                                            Iwestimit
I   WMintnwN  Plan.                                                                                   progm and
Tidget; reducd
-Improve Anis-  -Redefine priumry, seomdary and   1W,                   6/90
trati4m of the    terciy net   and lews  of   Government.
Road Network.      ilnestmit  for each osse.
Iasid road reclassification.       1W,              12/90
Qisr&±or
2. E
} wov  "     erng  yaotn              , Cow.
Strengthen          Upgrade  fiWm- coquterized Eethods of design.                           12/89    lmproved design;
et wring             iZ  Directorate    -)pgrade eVglmxeng capcity of  INW, Dept.                     redn d costs.
unpacity and        in 1W.              deparents.                         Ckm.             12/89
qualty catrol in
low and                                 -Standardize tests for soils and  TW, Cos.,
Intendman   .       Ead  amd           material,  iMrowe specifica-                          6/90     Iprovd quality
-trsigtt~i TRW     tica, train personnel, iqprowe                                 ontrol in INV.
laboratory        quality cotrol.
faciities and
-Pr wo m  t of laboratory         11W, Dept.,
Deelopunt of    equipment and trairing of              os.             12/90    iroved quality
laboratory        laboratory personnal in use of                                acntrol of rural
capacty in        imroved techtiques.                                           roads.
3. Traffic                             -Finalize processing of exdstig      OW              6/89       spmroed operation
lnwie the           Upgrade the IW's road accidents data.                                            of ttI road
operation of the    Traffic             -Establish ccmtizaus system for    0fl             12/89    network; national
hgbig0y netiaxk.   Dtearugziit.         lSmtrLng and evaluating road                                  data base for
accidet data.                                                 traffic accidents
-ITproye the design stanidards      TRW             12/89     statistics;
specificatios quality control                                improved road
aid deploymemt of traffic                                     safety.
cxmtrl devices.
-Vehicle aode wAgit                 13W              6/90
disturihibon study.



- 45 -
M 1
Page 4 of 7
scnv                     r                     ACIN                    RFSEOr-         Th PIC
II. RX; (omt.)
4. I'intenmnce
Str5th  roMad       Upgrade            -PrarLtion of rollg udlti-    INW, Cos.             12/89    Ispro   efficiency
intamX              1intemme           amial progam for routire san                                 of ointwim  of
planing ail         Directorate in     periodic maintenac of National                               Natioal Road
anization           D.N.V.             Road Nentwrk.                                                Network anl reduoe
-Set-up an effective aost-        INV, Cam.        12/89     costs.
accuting system.
-Icrease efficiecy of work-  I W, CoA.              6/90
shop,   -     availability and
utilization of equipt.
Exqpa                pration of anwual mral          13NV, Con.       12/91    Imrove effic±eacy
mintenance        roais maintensnee progr   by                                  of rural roads
planning and cost tbe  1Vprtnts, traing of                                      mainteranoe asd
accuting, mnd   Departmnt's pasml in                                            reduce costs.
equdipmIt         aost-accnting, suipment
Ima5el51t to        tnagewt and tinterance
Departmunts.      operation.
nI - 
1. Subsector
Inptow efficiery  Pevis of tle         -iefin activities to be carried    HDP, ANP         6/89     PedLuce costs aId
in provisin of      romi each agency  aut by camurcial, tourist and                                 expedite
port serviz.        in the suirnctor  fisIdng ports.                                                operations.
(APW, 1,          -Defin policies for tourist       KPw (W),         6/90     Decrease role of
Private            port deylomnt prowting wider  Cis.                         Govrtuint in
rators).          prticipat   of the private                                    tourist port
sector.                                                      development.
-Grant coemsion  of individual  M?lP (DM1)         6/90
to.urist ports to private
operators whenever prosen mure
profitable.
-Define policies and             MKl  (DNH),    12/89        Eliminate
organization for provision of     Cons.                      duplication of
rmintPnnmn> dredging services,                               efforts and
Including cost recovery                                      facilities.
wrncirnniau ad implement them.
leview organiz-   -Set up a functionll structural   KMP, ANP         6/90      Greater
aLtonal structure orgenization for ANP addressed    Cons.                      responsiveness to
ard functions of   to grant greater operationxal and                           market conditions.
ANP.                 cial aitocomny to the
ports.
Upgrade ANP's     -Define objectives and marketing   MTOP, ANP       6/90      Greater
osineting and     strategies to attract additional  Cons.                      responsiveness to
coirncLal         traffic.                                                      aerket conditions.
research
capsbilities.



- 46 -
AN1
Page 5 of 7
O&JEClDS M                                 --  ACrldN                    RESONS-m
IBIhXrY                        EYMA
2. Iztitutional
Eff Lieney-AN
Improve inmstmit   Nester plan for   -Approval.                            ANP, Cons.       12/88    Adjust ports
planing.             bntevideo                                                              12/88     physical
-Initiation.                                                 conditions to
perational and
traffic needs.
Adoption of a      -Design of system.                 AMN, Cbns.        9/89    Greater and uvre
rolling             '                                                             Hly
wultiarrual                                                                      responsiveness of
investment                                                                       investment
budget.                                                                          planning to ANP's
-Training                          ANP, Cans.       12/89    objectives.
-Testing                           ANP, Cons.        3/90
-Implementation                    ANM, Cons.        6/90
Iqirow               Revise            -Reorganize the port in             AM, Cons.         4/90     Ecpedite works
operational          operational        specialized port areas.                                       execution; reduce
efficiainc.          organization of   -Review working mmthods.            ANP, Cbns.        4/90      ostas.
the Mbtevidoe    -Review allocation of staff for   ANP                  4/90
port.             each port activity.
eve2lopment and   -Design system.                     ANP, Cons.       10/89     Continous
adoption of an                                                                   programcing and
efficiency                                                                       nonitoring of
indicators                                                                       efficiency in port
system.                                                                          operations.
-Testing of indicators            AN, Cons.        12/89
-Orafting of norms                 Cons.            2/90
-Adopt remidations.                ANP              4/90



- 47 -
Page 6 of 7
b0cKJrim vrs             M                       ACrTc4                    RESPON-        TD     -   -       WA T
DeveloI      of a   -Des*  sytem As, Can.                                10/89     bprved
Productivity                                                                       efficency reduced
based empa-    -Drafting of Noz                        ANP, Cons.        12/89    casts.
tion system for
workers.           -dpt r          datisu.             AN, Cos.           4/90
Setting up of a    -Progr   and coures deslUg.         AN, CGxs.          6/89     Iqxaed peraml
training progran                                                                   capailities.
for stkff at all  -Eution in acc-hnoe with             ME,  m.            9/89
levels.            areed targets.
-Installing training equipent.   AN   Cms.            4/90    Akqbe training
facilities
Imroe  equtpmnt   Establish a            -Design and introduction of an                                 inasure.
uainremmee           systti for          efficient equipmnt asgeint          MP, Cms.           8/89      iqrovd techaical
sstagmnt.            pla ,               system                                                          leel of
eaitin  and                                                                         dnteaice; ue
mmitoring                                                                          of resouras; an
equ.pzent                                                                        aost control.
maintenmnc.
-Review of equlpent uintme   ANP, Qons.              12/89
owrpniation.
-Training of equdpmit              APP, Cons.        12/89
mo1nt te peroxtel.
Imqrow  finwidal    Update and           -Follow on new accounttig and       Ai, Cans.        9/89       iaWnn e cost
aend    _ gmt        cowslidate          auditing procXedrnes currenntly                                conntrol.
systems.             sefxarIob4g and     beding intrtxiMced.
-Establish a       -Dcta collection.                   ANP, Cbms.        9/89      Fnaure cost
system to                                                                          reoovery through
regularly review                                                                   user churges.
tariff structure
and levels based
aC CeaU.
-Farullatian of recxidatiors.                        12/89
-Andption of recaimundatians.                         6/90



- 48 -
A1
Page 7 of 7
O -EClV             DIN 3f                    AC-                  - RESPCErIT TflW'
Adoption of a     -Design of a systae.              MW, ciw.       12/89    Ieduction of
fizumca.l                                                                     uncertainties and
plarming sytem                                                               a1bomm for
to masure 1Sct                                                               timely deiiim
of budgted ope-                                                              Mdiig.
ation ad capital
invetmt an
fiiAwnr.
-'rain±ng                        M, OWA.          4/90
-Testing                         AW, nme.         4/90
-mletation of                    AN, Cms.          6/90
Strengthm         -IBsig  of a system.             ANP, C.          12/89    TIaprvmts in
_rAgmt                                                                       deXcisinmoking
imformtioxi
system
-Trainin                         AM, c4m.         4/90
-Testing                         ANP, Cms.         4/90
i,leputatiem of                  ANP, Cam.        6/90
3. Intitutnl mia .
Ef fiid y - DIR
1wuve finwgi ai      tablish      ur-  -Dwiep systm.                   IN, CamI.         6/89    EFrare COat
_ eWSNIWI          cially-mite                                                                   r    y dUxMf
systems.            oia  and cost                                                                ume  charges.
accountuel s7t
for tirist
and fishing
ports.
-Ttaining                                       9/89
-estin                                          9/89
-Implentation of                                12/89
zltidstcm



- 49 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 8
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
The Roads Subsector
A. Introduction
(i) Highway Administration
1.        For administrative  purposes,  the  highway  network  in  Uruguay is
classified into national and  departmental  networks.   Vialidad, the National
Highways  Directorate  (DNV)  within   MTOP,   is  responsible  for  planning,
constructing, maintaining and operating the national highway network through
its headquarters in Montevideo and nine regional offices. Outside the direct
control of DNV is the departmental network, which is controlled by the
municipal administration of each department (Intendencia) for construction and
maintenance.
(ii) The National Network
2.        The national highway network has 9,660 km of roads of which 6,795 km
are paved, 2,835 have gravel surface and 30 km earth surface (Table 1). The
network is divided into three systems: major arterials (3,800 km), collectors
(3,800 km), and local roads (2,060 km).
3.        The extent of the National Highway Network is adequate.  The general
condition of the network is less satisfactory than the one evaluated by MTOP
in Table 1 (562 in good, 412 in fair, and 3Z in poor condition). The
principal problems are the age of most pavements and their seriously
deteriorated condition. The design standards for many roads constructed prior
to 1950. are outdated and inadequate to provide safe operating characteristics
for tne present traffic volumes and higher speeds. The lack of an efficient
maintenance management system has contributed -ign1ficantly to the prvement
deterioration.
(iii) The Departmental Network
4.        The departmental networks  have  66,235  km  of low standard, poorly
maintained roads and streets of which 1,961 km are paved surfaces, 24,496 km
are gravel surfaces and 39,778 km are earth surfaces. Of this total, 13,580
km are urban and suburban streets and, therefore, the actual rural roads
network is of 52,655 km (296 km paved, 19,208 gravel and 33,151 earth). Table
1 shows the poor condition of this network (16Z good, 28Z fair and 56? poor)
stressing the need for remedial  actions.    The network needs some additional
feeder roads in areas with high agricultural potential.
5.        The  current  World  Bank   project   (Loan  2238-UR)  provides  for
rehabilitation and reconstruction of about 6,300 km (US$15 million) of
existing departmental roads from all of the departments. At present 5,328 km
have been completed and 973 km are under construction.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 8
(iv) The National Highway Directorate (DNV)
6.        DNV is organized  into  four  directorates  (Chart 1): Financing and
Administration, Investments and Works, Road Maintenance, and Engineering.
Each one of these directorates is subdivided into two to four departments
according to specific functions. Supervision of construction and execution of
maintenance works are carried out by the regional offices. All directors, and
all chiefs of departments and regional offices are well-trained professionals
with several years of  experience.    The depletion of competent professionals
that DNV suffered in the 1960s and 1970s has been overcome in recent years by
expanded hiring of young professionals who are receiving intensive training
and are rapidly climbing into mid-management positions. DNV's road planning,
engineering, work supervision, maintenance and network operating capacity
would be further strengthened under the proposed project.
(v) Municipal Road Administration (Departments)
7.        The capacity and capabilities  of  the  18 departments vary, but all
have an infrastructure division responsible for public buildings and roads.
The professional level of the road administrators in the departments has
improved substantially during recent years and would be further enhanced, in
close collaboration with DNV, under the proposed project.
B.  PlanninglOperations/Regulations
(i) Planning and DesignrStudes
8.        Planning has  shown  marked  improvement  as  a  result  of the work
financed  in  the  World  Bank  projects  (Loans  1689-UR  and  2238-UR),  but
additional technical assistance is necessary to insure a planning capability
sufficient of developing multi-modal transport plans, establishing modal
planning priorities, and developing a planning unit capable of producing
5-year roll-over planning programs, feasibility studies and procedures and
programs to generate the data base necessary to implement the planning
process. A start has been made and the Transport Planning Unit ((UPT) of DNT
is developing the planning capacity. A national transport plan is expected to
be completed by late 1988.
9.        DNV is in the process of upgrading its capabilities and a major area
to change is  the  design  function.    Assistance  is  being  provided by the
Argentine DNV for the improvement of pavement design, and by the U.S.
Department of Transportation (DOT) for the improvement of roadway and bridge
design. DOT is also providing manuals and computer software for highway
planning,  traffic  engineering,   road   safety,  maintenance  and  equipment
management.    DNV  is  taking  steps  to  develop  in-house  capabilities for
producing the contract documents of highway design plans, standard and special
construction specifications and engineering cost estimates in lieu of using
local consultants.
(ii) Construction and Maintenance
10.       All road construction for  DNV  is  done  under unit price contracts
after competitive bidding. National contractors are required to register in



- 51 -                          ANNFX 2
Page 3 of 8
MTOP's General Register of Contractors.    DNV is planning to provide in-house
construction supervision as a result of the planned organizational expansion.
In the past unit prices for construction projects have increased at a greater
rate than prices in the general market place. Therefore, DNV has updated its
data base for cost calculation in engineering estimates.
11.       Maintenance of national highways is  performed  by DNV using its own
equipment, personnel  and  materials.    Maintenance  is  carried  out by nine
regional offices sub-divided  into  26  districts.    Each  regional office is
allocated its own equipment and has a field workshop for routine equipment
maintenance. A central workshop in Zolon, and private garages perform major
equipment repairs.
12.       Routine maintenance is  generally  satisfactory, but the combination
of increasing costs, inadequate periodic maintenance and a highway network
approaching 40 years of service requires more than normal effort to maintain
an acceptable level  of  service.    Development  of  an effective maintenance
management system has a high priority for DNV at this time.
13.       The departments attempt to maintain  their networks, but the results
are uneven and often unsatisfactory.   They duplicate, on a smaller scale, the
facilities available at DNV. They are, for the most part, under-staffed, with
weak  management,  lacking  experienced   professionals,  and  suffering  from
shortages  of  equipment  and   materials,  inadequate  equipment  maintenance
facilities  and  minimal  funding.       Design,  construction  and  maintenance
practices are nct standardized bw'.-ee  the  depaiuuteau awu Iur tne most part
they do not apply DNV's national network standards.
14.       Cooperation between DNV and  the  departments  has improved with the
MTOP decision to focus on the rehabilitation and maintenance of the highway
networks in Uruguay. The current Bank loan (Loan 2238-UR), which initiated
the National Feeder Roads Program, has been revised to implement the MTOP
commitment to maintenance and expand the Traffic Safety component. DNV is
putting more emphasis on technical assistance and is proposing to expand the
maintenance training function within DNV.
(iii) Labor
15.       DNV  currently  has  3,324  employees  working  in  the headquarters
office, the central workshop and the nine regional offices. The work force
has three major classifications defined as follows: (a) budgeted personnel who
are permanent, participate in the promotional  ladder and are eligible for all
benefits; (b) permanent personnel who  enter  the  service at a high level, do
not participate in the promotional  ladder  and are eligible for all benefits;
and (c) temporary and contract personnel, working in the regions, who do not
participate in the promotional ladder and may be released if work is slack.
Unskilled labor may not be transferred between regions, but all other
personnel are eligible  to  fill  openings  in  lieu  of  being released.  The
general job classification of the personnel is as follows:
(a)AaA - Professionals (engineers)
(b)Ab - Administrative Personnel
(c;AcC - Technicians
(d)AcB - Skilled and Unskilled Labor
(e)Ad - Service Personnel



- 52 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 8
DNV Personnel Table
Employment Conditions                AaA I Ab  f AcC    AcB I Ad   Total
Permanent, eligible for promotion I 5  I 107 I 42 I   0 I  9 I 163
Permanent, no promotions           I 27  I 14    20 I   3        0 I  64  I
Temporary or contract              I 21  I 53 I 208 I 2810 I  5 I 3097  I
I                Total                 53  1174 12701 2813 I14 l       3324
16.       The distribution of DNV's  personnel by job classification indicates
that 93Z of the staff is primarily temporary labor6rs that are not on the
promotional ladder and receive no  benefits.    These people rely on the labor
unions to provide assistance in the job market and represent them in labor
disputes. This situation is particularly counter-productive in the operation
of the central and regional  workshops.   Overstaffing in the central workshop
has been reduced substantially in the last year, from a total workforce of 500
to 390 at  present  of which  28  are  professionals,  260  mechanics and 102
administrative and aux-iliary personcl, stare-keepers nnt drivers.
(iv) Construction Industry
17.       The construction industry in Uruguay is well organized.  In order to
qualify for participation in bidding for highway projects, contractors are
required to register in MTOP's    General  Register of contractors, where each
firm is classified according to field of specialization, financial capacity,
availability  of  equipment,   staffing,   annual   work   capacity  and  past
performance. At present, twenty-five contractors are registered for highway
and bridge projects with five classified as first level contractors, and five
as second level. Additionally, two contractors are classified exclusively for
bridge projects.
(v) Vehicle Weight, Size and Enforcement
18.       The 1975 regulations for vehicle  size and operation were revised in
1984 and again, in 1986. Vehicle size has been increased to cover the larger
international truck and trailer units (maximum length between axles of 15
meters) from Brazil and Argentina and weight limits have been raised
accordingly from 37 tons to 42 tons to be in line with the Argentine limits of
45 tons and the Brazilian limits of 40 tons. Enforcement is carried out at
permanent scale locations at major access points to the country and by teams
using portable scales to check movements on the country network. When
overloading is discovered the violator is expected to reduce his load to the



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 8
legal limit before continuing and is fined an amount of Unidades Sectoriales
de Transporte (U.S.T.) which are presently valued at 960 new pesos, and are
calculated as a function of the excess in tons, moved over a distance (kms) of
the road system. The fine can vary from 2 U.S.T. units for 5 tons of excess
weight moved from ze,.o to 25 km to the maximum fine of 850 U.S.T. units for
moving 70 tons for 275 km or more.
(vi) Training and Technical Assistance
19.       DNV has taken a positive  aggressive attitude toward the improvement
of training and technical assistance (TA) for DNV and the departments. Three
outside institutions have been able to provide necessary assistance to DNV in
this area. The World Bank, through the Third Highway Project has provided
funds for TA and also provided training for MTOP personnel in the use of the
Highway Design Model (HDM), a Bank developed computerized design and planning
tool.   The  Argentine  DNV,  through  a  country  agreement,  has completed a
preliminary pavement inventory of the Uruguay highway system using two
deflectographs. They have trained DNV in the use anl operation of the
machines >a.d in the analysis of the results to determine pavement structural
performance. The Bank is financing two of these machines for DNV under the
current loan. The DOT, through a country agreement has completed a report for
DNV on pavement design using basaltic aggregate and has completed an analysis
of this type of material.   In  addition,  DOT  has agreed to provide DNV with
computer software covering all of the highway plant functiorns, training in the
use an.- '.     t   v.. -r the  Mr        a. a                             __ -_  _!  .
The Bank is  financing  the  necessary  hardware, basically micro-computers to
establish the system.
20.       DNV is in the process  of  reorganization in order to streamline the
operation of the highway plant and the need for training the departments is a
major consideration.    Training  is  currently  a  section  in  the equipment
maintenance department, but DNV plans to upgrade the training section to the
department level and attach it to the soils and materials investigation
division. As a training department the scope of the program will be expanded
to provide training and technical assistance across the range of functions
necessary to the operation of the highway plant.
C. Demand/Supply
21.       The Transport Planning  Unit  (UTP)  of  DNT  has  been conducting a
manual classification traffic counting program on the National Highway Network
as part of the Institutional Strengthening of MTOP and DNV. This program has
been in effect since 1983 and has counted traffic on 25 national roads at 99
count stations for periods ranging from 16 hours to 24 hours per day.
Analysis has been slow and UTP provided annual average traffic data in 1986
for the 1984 count program.   Implementation of the computerized systems being
made available from DOT should help speed up the processing. In addition to
the classification count program, UTP also conducted coverage counts on routes
from the major arterial, collector and local road system to provide input for
the economic evaluation of specific  sub-projects.   UTP also conducted origin
and destination surveys to provide input for the economic evaluations.



- 54 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 8
22.       While these  programs  demonstrate  a  great  improvement in traffic
survey and count coverage in Uruguay, more technical assistance is necessary.
Although UTP is currently responsible for these programs, DNV is setting up a
traffic division or department capable of providing for traffic operations,
engineering, safety,  surveys  and  studies.    A  traffic  engineer  has been
appointed and is implementing planning procedures and performing some initial
surveys to develop a data base of accidents prior to the beginning of the
technical assistance program. The department has absolutely no expertise or
experience in network operation, traffic engineering principles, or highway
safety and will need training and technical assistance.
D. Pavement Performance
23.       Analysis  of  the  design   and  behaviour  of  pavement  structures
indicates that the pavement structures on much of the existing networks are
inadequate, over-aged and under-designed for the new axle load regulations.
DNV is aware of the problem and has started several programs to inventory the
conditions of the networks, measure the structural capacities, and standardize
design practices. The Third Highway Project is providing funds for technical
assistance to support these  programs.    The technical assistance provided by
the Argentine DNV in the analysis of the design and behaviour of pavement
structures has resulted in DNV establishing new monitoring and design
procedures, procurement of deflectograph equipment, and preparation of network
inventories.
z4.       rarr or tne probiem W;i  paiveent perfoance ir Uruguay  s .c1ated
to environmental conditions and constructior materials such as aggregate and
asphalt. In 1985 two sections, RN12 and RN23 of the Third Highway Sector
Project which had been in service for one year had pavement failures. These
two links are located in an area that has considerable ground water in the
sub-base and base. As part of a country-to-country agreement signed in 1984,
DNV requested technical assistance from the DOT in assessing the problem. The
results indicated that the pavement failures were primarily due to the use of
basaltic  aggregates  in  the  bituminous   concrete  mix.    In  addition  to
investigating these two failed sections, DOT tested seven other locations and
determined that the probable contributing factors to pavement failure are a
combination of:   poor  quality  granites  in  the  mix; improper construction
techniques where ground water is found in the base and surfacing; inadequate
structural design; and importation of poor grade of crude oil and the lack of
quality control at the refinery.
E. Equipment Management
25.       Equipment management is weak  in  both  DNV and the departments, but
DNV is taking positive action to strengthen it. Equipment maintenance suffers
from a shortage of trained personnel, labor union influence, poor management,
operational deficiencies anc inadequate controls. A large part of the problem
is the tendency to provide and staff duplicate facilities in an area with
limited resources. The DNV central workshop performs only 30Z of the needed



- 55 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 8
repair work, with 702 going  to  garages  in  the   private sector, and DNV is
budgetting more funds to districts for use in private garages for small repair
and maintenance jobs. The use of private garages has created a need in DNV
for inspectors to monitor quality  control.   The departments also use private
garages to perform work that their workshops cannot handle, but many times the
necessary expertise is not available in the departments and equipment must be
moved to Montevideo making the monitoring of quality control much more
difficult.
26.       Before DNV can  implement  an  effective Equipment Management System
the Labor Union problem must  be  resolved  and the question of duplication of
services between private and government repair facilities and between parallel
DNV  and  departments  repair  facilities  addressed.    Implementation  of  a
computerized  Equipment  Management  System  should   result  in  a  level  of
standardization that would make better use of existing resources and reduce
the need for the duplication of facilities.
27.       DNV has identified some areas of the operation that can be improved.
Equipment management data would be used to implement a maintenance production
line that would schedule equipment for routine servicing based on usage hours
and establish production norms.    Training  of  heavy equipment mechanics for
diesel, hydraulics, transmissions and other specialities in short supply would
be added to the agenda for both DNV and Intendencia mechanics. A roadside
repair and servicing unit would be established to reduce the need for taking
equipment from the job site to a district or central shop for minor breakdowns
aUld LUut.LUC beLV..L.
F. The Proposed Project
28.       The  highway  component  of   the   proposed  project  is  aimed  at
strengthening road management capability and MTOP's transport man gement
capability,  and  at  providing   investments  urgently  required  to  improve
transport operations along specific road sections that are deteriorating
quickly and/or  are  unable  to  carry  present  traffic  demand.   A detailed
description of the project is as follows:
(a) Physical Investments:
(i) Replacement Program
-  replacement  of  a  149  km  section  of  Route  1 between Colonia and
Montevideo (built in 1930)  on  a  new  horizontal and vertical alignment
(according to modern design standards)  including about 10 structures for
bridges and overpasses;
(ii) Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
- rehabilitation of a 15 km section of Route e in a suburban area north
of Montevideo, including one bridge, one rai..road overpass, about 14
improved ad-grade intersections, and partial widening to four lanes;
- rehabilitation of a 51 km section of Route 7 north of Montevideo,
including about 6 bridges;



- 56 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 8
- rehabilitation and maintenance of additional priority highway sections
and bridges.
(iii) Department Maintenance Program
- a first year program for routine maintenance of a maximum of 10,000 km
of selected gravel roads in participating departments and periodic
maintenance of about 2,000 km of those roads;
- further annual routine maintenance programs over the project period
for a maximum of 10,000 km of selected gravel roads in participating
departments and annual periodic maintenance programs on about 2,000 km of
gravel roads, both subject to annual review to determine whether the
selected sections are technically and economically justified;
(iv) Institutional Strengthening of MTOP
- improvement of MTOP's capabilities in transportation planning and
management,  including  preparation   of   a multi-modal  transportation
computer model, review of road-user charges, provision of a training
program for transport management and participation in international
conferences and working visits abroad.
(v) Institutional Strengthening of DNV and Participating Departments
-  improvement  of  DNV's  and  the  department's capabilities in highway
planning, engineering, traffic management, soils and materials testing,
traffic management and road maintenance and equipment management;
- preparation of computer models for planning, traffic management, and
road maintenance and equipment management;
- acquisition of computer hardware and software, laboratory equipment,
surveying equipment, weighing scales and light vehicles;
- participation in international conferences and working visits abroad.
(b) Action Plan for Institutional Reforms
k9.       MTOP's Action Plan for roads includes all those measures intended at
strengthening sector policies and increasing institutional efficiency and is
supported by the technical assistance and training provided for in the
strengthening programs described above.    Further  details of the Action Plan
are provided in Annex 1.
May 1988



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT
THE NATIONAL AND THE DEPARTMENTAL RURAL ROADS NETWORK
) NATIONAL NETWORK
Surface                Condition 1/
Good       Fair       Poor      Total       Percentage
Paved         4052        2646        97        6795         70.34
Gravel        1298        1338       199        2835         29.35
Earth         0           0           30          30          0.31
TOTAL             5350       3984       326        9660        100.00
B)  DEPARTMENTAL RURAL NETWORK
Surface                Condition I/
Good       Fair       Pcor      Total       Percentage
Paved          116         135        46         296          0.56
Gravel        6857        7713      4638       19208         36.48
Earth         1485        6817    24849        33151          62.96
TOTAL             8458      14665    29533        52655        100.00
1, This evaluation seems optimistic.
Source:  MTOP
May 1988



- 58 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
The Ports Subsector
A. The Port System
1.        The port system in Uruguay  plays  an important role in handling the
country's foreign trade and transit cargo from neighbouring countries.
Cabotage, however, is relatively  small.    The system includes facilities for
passenger services to/from Argentina, services the foreign fishing fleets
operating in  the  South  Atlantic  and  the  domestic  fishing  fleet.   Port
facilities to serve the small craft fleet of recreational boats are also part
of the port system.
2.        Port development reflects the  physical constraints imposed by water
depths available along the Atlantic coastline, the Rio de la Plata basin and
the Uruguay river, as well as the demographic distribution of the country.
Montevideo, the only deep-water port, is located in the bay of Montevideo
facing the Rio de la Plata basin; Colonia the second commercial port in terms
of overall traffic (cargo and passengers) is also in the Rio de la Plata basin
at a location limited by shallow waters (5 m); the other two commercial river
ports, namely Nueva Palmira y Fray Bentos are located along the Rio Uruguay
with depth restrictions imposed by that of the waterways (6.5m). The other
commercial river ports of Paysandu y Salto have practically ceased to operate
because of depth constraints or because of new bridge connections with
Argentina.
3.        La Paloma on the Atlantic  coast, designated to become the country's
main fishing port, serves three fish processing plants located there and its
expansion is planned to enable it to cope with the growth of the fishing
industry. Piriapolis is a small port serving another fish processing plant.
However, being located in the country's most important turistic area, plans to
develop Priapolis as a small craft port, second only to Punta del Este, are
well advanced.
4.        The port system includes a  number  of small craft harbors extending
from the Uruguay river to  the  Atlantic  coast.   Some of them offer marinas,
launching ramps and full small craft services, while others are just natural
havens providing mooring/landing facilities.
B. Port Facilities
5.        Montevideo is  the  only  deep-water  port  of  the  country with an
operational depth of 10 m alongside most of the 16 international traffic
berths (about 2800 m of quays). The back up area consists of about 30 ha that
accommodate 13 transit sheds and warehouses, of which 9 are obsolete and badly
located, leaving limited working and open storage areas, some of which are in
poor condition. Power supply is obsoletu and inadequate, to a degree that some
quay cranes acquired four years ago are still non operational. The above
deficiencies coupled with poor equipment maintenance, inappropriate labor



- 59 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
practices, and less than desirable management result in Montevideo having one
of the lowest port productivity levels in the region.
6.        The La Paloma port consists  of  a partially protected basin; it has
600 meters of quays, of which only 240 meters are operational, as dredging
alongside the rest has been postponed to avoid leaving unprotected the
facilities currently in service. All landing of fish for feed processing and
ship loading of finished products are carried out directly by the industries
installed in the port.
7.        Uruguay's network of small craft  harbors has been developed in most
cases using natural location advantages along its extensive shoreline to
provide facilities  to  pleasure  boats.    River  and  maritime  resorts have
traditionally attracted Argentine tourism helped by short distance. On the
Rio Uruguay the main small craft recreational ports are Fray Bentos, Mercedes
and Higueritas.  Along the Rio  La  Plata  in the Montevideo coastline   there
are eight small craft harbors, the main one being located at Colonia. Finally
there are three ports east of Montevideo: Buceo, a small craft harbor at
Montevideo; Piriapolis; and Punta del Este, which offers berthing and mooring
to 400 boats and inland storage for another 400.
8.         The ports in Uruguay  are  experiencing  a period of major changes.
The increasing use of containers and the trend towards larger ships are
creating opportunities and problems for Montevideo and other commercial ports.
Tf_, cpcclally s="- c.aft. tou.is=,  is icreaciang 4n -4portance creati=0
a demand for mooring  and  other  facilities.    Furthermore, the national and
international fishing fleets are increasing their activities in the South
Atlantic with an increasing demand for shore installations.
C. Port Institutional Framework
9.        The principal agencies involved in ports include:  MTOP, through DNH
and DNT; ANP; the Ministry of Labor and Soc'al Security, through the National
Administration for Stevedore Services (ANSE); the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, through Customs, foreign trade regulations and naval industries; the
Ministry of Defense and the Navy, through the National Coastguard (PNN); and
the Ministry of Agriculture, through the National Institute for Fishing
(INAPE). In addition, the recently-created Ministry of Tourism is expected to
be involved in promotion of small craft ports and harbors.
10.        ANP  is  responsible  for  the  administration and operation of all
commercial  ports;  its  current   functions  include  cargo-handling  (except
stevedoring which is carried out by ANSE), towage, dredging and port
construction. In addition to the above, it operates the same old merchant
vessels and ship repair facilities for all its floating fleet (vessels
dredgers and barges, tugboats and other floating craft) and is responsible for
granting licences for port services, within the port of Montevideo. Most of
ANP's staff is assigned to Montevideo, the rest being distributed among the
port administrations at Fray Bentos, Nueva  Palmira  and Colonia.   The agency
is legally autonomous but is required to seek government approval for tariff
increases, investments and the annual  budget.   The multiple non port-related
functions assigned to ANP, coupled with an obsolete overstaffed organization,
make it necessary to undertake an in-d pth reorganization, seeking to



- 60 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
eliminate those functions that can be performed by others and establishing or
upgrading  those  considered  essential   to   transform   ANP  into  a  fully
comiercially  oriented   enterprise.        The   project   would  support  such
reorganization.
11.       DNH, is responsible  for  constructing  and  operating all the small
craft harbors and  the  fishing  port  of  La  Paloma.    DNH  owns a fleet of
dredgers, barges, tugs and other equipment for the maintenance of navigable
river waterways and buoy markings, and is also engaged in the provision of
ferry and other river crossing  services.    DNH's role would be revised under
the proposed project, simultaneously with the reorganization of ANP, to define
functions and responsibilities, avoid duplication, achieve coordination, and
promote a wider participation of the private sector in the development and
operation of small craft ports and harbors.
D. Port Operations
12.       In  Montevideo  port,  inappropriate  port  operation  practices and
poorequipment  maintenance,  coupled   with   lack   of  coordination  between
stevedoring  and  on-shore  operations,  are   the   main  cause  of  the  low
productivity of the port.
13.       In order to measure port  productivity at Montevideo port statistics
were analyzed and compared with those of other ports of similar size and
traffic level (Table 1 of this annex).   Productivity was measuLed it eii  uf
the following standard performance indicators: (a) Berth Performance Index
(BPI) or average rate based upon total time ships occupy berths; (b) Cargo
Performance Index (CPI) or average rate based upon net time ships are engaged
in loading and unloading cargo; and (c) Gang Performance Index (GPI) or
average rate based upon CPI and the average number of ship hatches worked
simultaneously per ship; this index is expressed in terms of tonJgang/hour.In
general, the comparison of performance indicators precludes adjustments for
bringing all ports into an absolute common basis, since there may be disparity
in port working hours, size of shipments, weather conditions, etc. To isolate
the effect of these factors, the Cargo/Berth (CIB) ratio which measures time
actually spent in loading and discharging ships as a proportion of total time
that ships occupy berths, was utilized.
14.       The comparison of  performance  indicators  (Table 1 of this Annex),
leads to the following conclusions:
(a) Cargo Performance Index (CPI) at Montevideo is about 60? of that of
other ports; this indicates that port workers are not able to handle
cargo at reasonable rates due to the lack of coordination between
stevedoring and on-shore cargc handling;
(b)  Gang  Performance  Index  (GPI)   at  Montevideo  show  that  hourly
productivity is about 622 of the average rates of developing
countries due to: (i) inappropriate cargo-handling methods (a large
percentage of cargo is handled through direct delivery to trucks);
(ii)  lack  of  incentives   to   increase  efficiency  in  on-shore
operations (payments to these workers are not related to cargo
handled); and (iii) abscence of regular training for port workers to
bring them up to date with modern cargo handling technologies;



- 61 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
(c)  the comparison  of  C/B  ratios  indicate  that  idle  time of ships
alongside berths is considerably longer  than in other ports.  While
in Montevideo ships are idle for about 60Z of the total time they
occupy berths,  the  average  for  220  ports  is  only  30Z.   This
reflects, among other things, lack of port operations planning,
unsatisfactory working time controls, poor equipment maintenance,
inadequate opened and covered storage areas and vehicular port
traffic controls.
15.       The proposed project would include technical assistance and training
to reorganize port operations and improve equipment maintenance practices. It
would also be agreed with the Government that changes in labor practices and
payment systems would also need to be addressed. To measure the effect of the
proposed changes, specific efficiency indicators (Table 2 of this Annex) have
been prepared for general cargo and containers, in terms of ton/gang/hour
(GPI) and ton/ship/day (BPI). These productivity targets, however, would have
to be reviewed and refined by ANP with the support of the technical assistance
consultants to be hired under the project.
E. Physical Constraints
16.       The above mentioned low productivity  rates are also attributable to
the following physical constraints present at Montevideo port: (a) lack of an
independent access to the container terminal, (containers have to pass the
geileial L;Kgu area); (u) obsoLete sheds  (two  or three story) and narrow quay
aprons; (c) limited adequate open storage areas; (d) deficient internal
electric system to operate container and quay cranes; (e) shortage of tractors
and trailers to move containers arriving on board of general cargo ships; and
(f) obsolete maintenance facilitics.
17.       The physical investments included in  the project for Montevideo are
aimed at resolving the above deficiencies. Specifically, improvements to the
container terminal, remodeling of the general cargo and multipurpose zones and
modernizing of the power supply system and of the port repair and maintenance
facilities, have been included.
F. Towage
18.       Although there is  a  privately  owned  tugboat  which operates on a
concessionary basis, at present, tugboat services are provided mainly by ANP.
ANP's fleet consists of 7 tugboats, of which only 6 ate available for
operations (one, which was handed over by the Navy, is not appropriate for
maritime services). In order to support this fleet (and also the dredging
fleet) ANP maintains a very costly ship repair facility, despite the fact that
this type of repair services are also being provided by the private sector.
In order to eliminate from ANP all non-port related functions, which can more
efficiently be performed by others, the Government is considering the
possibility of transferring towage services in full to the private sector this
matter would be further dealt with, when redefining the role of ANP under the
proposed project.



- 62 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
G. Dredging
19.       Uruguay's  maintenance  dredging   needs  include  navigation  river
channels along the Uruguay river, shallow-water river ports, and the maritime
access channel and port basin at Montevideo. Currently, maintenance dredging
is carried out by two agencies, namely ANP and DNH. ANP owns six dredgers, of
which only three are fully operational; two of them are hopper dredgers and
are currently used to maintain the Montevideo access channel and outer basin
and the third one is a small stationary suction dredger not suitable for
Montevideo. DNH owns seven dredgers of which at least three should be
scrapped, the remainirg four are stationary cutter suction and grab dredgers
and are used  for  maintaining  all  ports  but  Montevideo.   This equipment,
however, is not suitable for maintaining the river channels. Details of the
dredging fleet are given in Table 3 of this Annex.
20.       ANP's and DNH's combined dredging capabilities should, in principle,
be sufficient to cope with maintenance dredging requirements at a national
level.    Consequently,  the  Government  should  consider  unifying  dredging
activities under one single authority to optimize the use of available
equipment. The transfering of the existing repair and maintenance facilities
to the private sector should also be pursuee. Under the project,technical
assistance is being provided to: (i) more precisely define maintenance
dredging requirements, particularly at shallow water river ports, navigation
channels and small craft ports; (ii) develop an integrated dredging plan;
(iii) develop an organizational scheme to unify dredging operations; and (iv)
develop a dredging equipment maintenance plan and define the most efficient
way to implement it.
H. The Proposed Project
21.       The port component of the proposed project is aimed at resolving the
most  important  institutional  issues  facing   the  port  subsector  and  at
providing, at tne same time, those investments urgently required to eliminate
bottlenecks and improve port infrastructure to increase operating efficiency.
A detailed description of the project components is as follows:
(i)   Physical Investments:
(a) At Mont.evideo
-  construction  of  a  shallow-water    losing  dike,  at  the
northern end of the port basin to red ce siltation caused by
the tidal flow from the Montevideo bay to the port area;
-  construction of en independent  access road and gate complex
at the container terminal, including a trailer parking area;
-  remodeling the general  cargo  area, by demolishing obsolete
warehouses, and repaving the back up areas, including
-  remodeling  pier  8  to   convert  it  into  a multipurpose
terminal, by demolishing four obsolete two story transit
sheds and constructing two new ones; paving the quay apron,
open  storage  and   back   up  areas,  including  upgrading
utilities and reinforcing quay cranes foundation; and



- 63 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
-  acquisition  of  yard   tractors   and  trailers  to  handle
container traffic in other port areas, outside the container
terminal.
(b) At La Paloma
- construction of the western breakwater to provide for the
expansion of the fishing port;
- dredging works to expand the access channel and the port
basin; and
-  civil works and equipment to expand the water supply system.
(c) At Punta del Este
- construction of 340 m of additional small craft berths.
(d) At Piriapolis
- extension of existing breakwater; and
-  construction   of   berthing   and   boat-repair  facilities
including land reclamation and paving.
(e) Port Institutional Strengthening
- technical assistance to support the projects institutional
reforms, including:   studies  to  redefine  the role of the
subsector agencies; consultant services to upgrade ANP's
organizational,   administrative,   planning,   operational,
maintenance   and   financial   capabilities;   studies   to
reorganize  dredging   administration   and  operation;  and
consultant  services   to   upgrade   DNH's  accounting  and
financial systems;
- training of ANP personnel at all levels, including courses
and seminars in Uruguay and abroad; scholarships in port
administration  and   planning;   and   work  visits  abroad
including    attendance    to    specialized   international
conferences; and
- training equipment and materials and computer hardware and
software for the implementation of the new information
systems.
(ii) Action Plan for Institutional Reforms:
22.       HTOP's Action Plan for ports includes all those measures intended at
redifining sector policies and increasing institutional efficiency and is
supported by the technical assistance and training provided for in the
strengthening programs described above.    Further  details of the Action Plan
are provided in Annex 1.
September 1988



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Comparison of Operational Efficiency of Montevideo with Other Ports
Commodity            Unit         Comparators            Cargo Handling Rate
Group                                 Ports              BPI     CPI  BPI/CPI
Dry Bulk        Tonlship/hour   Montevideo                 43.0    87.8   0.49
Developing Countries    40.8    66.0   0.62
Average 220 ports       100.6   122.8   0.69
Developed Countries    142.1   151.4   0.94
Containerized   TEU/ship/hour   Montevideo                 27.5    37.7   0.73
Cargo
Developing Countries    41.2    53.9   0.76
Average 220 ports        42.7    60.3   0.71
Developed Countries      60.3    69.5   0.87
General Cargo   ToniShip/hour   Montevideo                 13.2    34.5   0.38
Developing Countries    16.3    26.6   0.61
Average 220 ports        25.9    37.1   0.82
Developed Countries      68.7    77.8   0.88
Source: ANP and mission
September 1988



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Port Operational Performance Targets
Commodity Group                            Ship Loading/Unloading Rates
1987     1990         1995         Unit
Actual    After Com-  After Pro-
1/     pletion      ject com-
of TA       pletion
A. Hourly rates
1. Containerized Cargo
at th- -- 'e--.                                          is 24-1J  i8  TU/hour
b) at multipurpose area            7           9          11       TEU/hour
2. General Cargo
a) break bulk                     10         12           14    ton/gang/hour
b) palletized                     30          36          40    ton/gang/hour
B. Daily rates
1. Containerized Cargo
a) at container terminal         100        160          200      TEU/ship/day
b) at multipurpose area           50         80          100      TEU/ship/day
2. General Cargo
a) break bulk                    240        400          450      ton/ship/day
b) palletized                    700       1200         1400      ton/ship/day
1/ Based on a C/B index of about 0.5 which indicatez Prtual hour worked
against actual paid working hours.
2/ Assuming an increase of the C/B index to about 0.7 the average for 220
ports but maintaining a 2-shifts-per-day system.
Source: ANP and mission
September 1988



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Dredging Fleet Characteristics and Dredging Capability
Ownership  Name    Type         Physical        Dredging             Actual
Conditions     Restrictions        Capability tm3)
Depth Protected    Daily    Annual
(m)   Waters
ANP      D3   Ladder       To be scrapped
D5   Trailer
Suction    To be scrapped      -        -         -           -
D6   Ladder      To be scrapped      -        -         -           -
D7   Trailer
Suction   Fully operational  12       no        8000    2,000,000
Da   Suction    Fully operational   8        yes      2400       480,000
D9   Trailer
Suction   Fully operational  14       no       20000    5,000,000
DNH    DHDl   Cutter
Suction   Operational          8      yes       2400      480,000
DHD2   Cutter
suction   Operational          8      yes       2400      480,000
DEDll  Ladder      To be scrapped       -                  -          -
DHD14  Ladder      To be scrapped       -       -          -          -
DHD16  Grab        Operational          8      yes         50       70,000
DHD17  Suction    To be scrapped        -       -          -          -
DHD18  Grab       Operational           8      yes         70       90,000
TOTAL                                                                     8,600,000
Source: ANP and mission
Septembre 1988



- 67 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 9
URJGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Financial Aspects
I.   ANP
A.   Introduction
1.        ANP  is  an  autonomous   state-owned  enterprise  responsible  for
provision or cargo handling and marine services, construction and maintenance
works, and granting of licenses for port services within the port of
Montevideo. In addition, it administers the ports of Fray Bentos, Nueva
Palmira and Colonia. ANP operates within the framework of Law 5,495 (1916)
as modified by Decree 8,988 (1933) and Law 11,037 (1948), with a Board of
five full-time directors, all named by the President of the Republic. The
Board  is   assisted   by   a   General   Manager,   three   Deputy  Managers
(Administration, Technical and Commercial) and 9 Directorates with advisory
functions. Port financial management is the responsibility of the head of
the Finance Division, with lower hierarchy than Deputy Managers in the
organizational chart, but also reporting directly to the General Manager.
Although the agency is legally autonomous, it is required to seek Government
approval for tarirf increases, Investments and the annual budget.
B.   Costs and Tariffs
2.        ANP's costing system suffers from numerous deficiencies: costing is
limited to just a few operations, such as workshops and civil works, and
based only on direct labor and material costs; costs are not grouped by cost
center or center of responsibility; and, the pricing procedures to assign
costs to parts and materials are not uniform among the various stores.
Furthermore, rno standard cost concept is used to permit management to measure
actual vis-a-vis standard costs.   In  order to eliminate these deficiencies,
the financial consultants hired under the previous port project (Loan
1798-UR) designed a new port costing system by cost center. The new costing
system is being implemented an is expected to be fully operational by end-
188. In order to ensure that the new system works satisfactorily, the
consultants would be invited back to examine it, under the proposed project.
In addition, they will be asked to develop the marginal cost concept, which
was not initially introduced, since this is the first step for the
establishment of cost-based tariffs.
3.        Because of the lack  of  reliable  cost data, ANP's present tariffs
bear no relationship with the cost of services rendered. Tariffs are quoted
on an ad-valorem basis and import tariffs more than double export tariffs.
In addition, ANP is, by regulation, allowed to grant price discounts to
exporters on an at random basis.   A recent analysis of costs and revenues of
imports and exports showed the following results:



- 68 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 9
Import         Export
Tariff per ton (USS          24.90         11.14
Total ccst per ton           23.80          23.80
(excluding interest)
Estimated long-run           14.00          14.00
marginal cost
Indeed, present export tariffs are not even covering long-run marginal costs.
Finally, numerous tariff exemptions exist for fishing vessels; at Montevideo
port tariffs for fishing activities are grossly understated and at La Paloma,
no charges are levied on  any  vessel.    All  the above disparities would be
eliminated through the establishment of a cost-based tariff structure, which
would be pursued under the proposed project.
C.   Budgeting, Accounting and Auditing
4.        Until recently, ANP's budgeting  system  was  deficient and did not
fully comply with legal requirements.   The budget was prepared merely on the
basis of past year's figures, without taking into account future planning
and/or adjustments in real programming of works. In addition, inflation was
not taken into account in determining costs. Under the previous port project
(Loan i796-Urk)ossl.        wieizs  - -  .d  tc  desn a s n rphAnsive budaetary
control system based upon planning, setting of objectives and programming of
work. The consultants have completed their task and the new budgeting system
is  now  being   introduced.       Furthermore,   based  on  the  consultants'
recommendations, ANP has created a Consultative Commission within its
administration to successfully operate the budgetary system. This Commission
is expected to meet regularly between April and July of each year to discuss,
and to ultimately finalize the budget proposals prepared by a Technical
Committee representing each department of ANP. The Technical Committee would
prepare  budgets  for  capital  and  recurrent  expenditures.    The  capital
expenditure budget would be prepared for five years while the current
expenditure budget for one year.   Once  finalized, the budgets would be sent
for approval, first, to ANP's Board of Director, then, to OPP and finally to
the President of the Republic.    ANP  should  ensure  that the new system is
fully instituted.
5.        ANP's accounting system was  also  revised by the financial consul-
tants hiLed under the previous Bank loan.  The new system, which is currently
being instituted eliminates most of the deficiencies of the previous one:
data processing is computerized; the new classification of accounts is cost-
oriented; financial reports will be the responsibility of just one reliable
source, rather than the previous two or more sources; financial and cost
accounting will be fully integrated; and the budgetary and accounting systems
will be properly linked to allow for budgetary control.
6.        ANP's internal audit  needs  strengthening.    It  does  not play a
dynamic role in internal control of port operations and administration and
does not act as a useful liaison between the external auditors and ANP.
During the implementation of the proposed project necessary technical
assistance will be provided in  this  field.    The external auditors a.e the



- 69 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 9
Tribunal de Cuentas (TC), who perform a legal audit. The TC has qualified
auditors from local universities and perform the audit work fairly well. A
review of their 1985 audit report indicates that TC has improved the quality
of its work and has demonstrated its willingness to perform a commercial
audit in addition to the legal audit, if it is specifically requested by the
client.  In light of  these  developments,  the appointment of TC as external
auditors would  not  be  objectionable  to  the  Bank.    During appraisal an
understanding was reached with TC  that  they  will audit ANP's accounts, the
Special Account and the SOEs.   The  TC  agreed  to issue the long form audit
report and the Management  Letter  and  submit  them  to  the Bank within six
months of the end of  fiscal  year.    If,  due  to heavy workload, the TC is
unable to produce the audit report  within  the agreed time frame, they would
agree to the hiring of other commercial independent auditors for the job. An
appropriate covenant is included in the loan documents.
D.   Past Financial Performance
(a) Operating Results
7.        Table 1 of this Annex presents  ANP's income statements for 1982 to
1986, which are summarized as follows:
ANP Income Statement 1982 - 1986
(in billion March 31, 1988 constant N$)
1982    1983      1984     1985      1986
Operating Revenues              11.24    9.38      7.43      7.28     7.83
Less: Working Expenses          (8.10)  (6.10)   (5.17)   (5.71)   (7.25)
Gross Margin              3.14    3.28      2.26      1.57      0.58
Less: Depreciation Charges    (1.87)  (1.54)   (1.70)   (1.29)   (1.25)
Operating Revenues/(loss)        1.27    1.74      0.56     0.28    (0.67)
Interest charges                (0.06)  (0.03)   (1.48)   (4.14)   (5.09)
Net Revenue/(loss)               1.21    1.71    (0.92)   (3.86)   (5.76)
Working Ratio                      72      65        70        78       93
Operating Ratio                    89      82        92        96      109
8.        During the 1970s, ANP's financial  performance was good.  Beginning
1980, the financial situation started deteriorating and, by 1984, the net
surpluses turned into net  losses.    The  working and operating ratios first
showed improvement in 1983 over 1982 (65 and 82 in 1983 vs. 72 and 89 in
1982), but thereafter deteriorated to reach  93 and 109 respectively in 1986.
Even though  the  financial  results  of  port  operations recorded operating
surpluses up to 1985, the amount of these surpluses was declining. The
operating revenues of N$ 1.3 billion in 1982 turned into an operating loss of
N$ 0.7 billion in 1986.   The  main reasons fcr ANP's deteriorating financial
situation  were:  (i)  increasing   staff   coEts;  (ii)  declining  traffic.
particularly the high revenue-earning import  traffic; (iii) low tariffs; and
(iv) weak cost-control mechanisms.



- 70 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 9
9.        In order to improve  its  financial  position,  ANP should focus on
improvement in operating efficiently and quality of service, reducing costs
particularly the staff costs and increasing tariffs selectively. ANP's
administration is also involved in activities which would be advantageously
performed by others. For example, the dry dock operations have no direct
relationship with port operations; and dredging, at a national level, is
performed by both ANP and DNH, a situation which has led to duplication of
facilities and equipment and to lack of proper coordination for the dredging
of interior  and  coastal  ports.    A  complete  reorganization  of  ANP is,
therefore, required.   Consideration  should  also be given to private sector
participation in the provision of selected services. The project will focus
on strengthening the organization and management of ANP through the provision
of the necessary technical assistance.
(b) Cash Flow
10.       Because of its satisfactory financial performance during the 1970s,
ANP accumulated a cash surplus of about US$50 million by the early 1980s.
However, since the Government was experiencing serious economic and financial
difficulties at that time, it instructed ANP, in 1983, to transfer US$22
million if its surplus  to  the  Treasury.    In  addition, ANP was forced to
finance 50Z of the construction of the container terminal and the fishing
berths, amountin" to US$10 million, which the Government had initially agreed
to finance but failed to do  so.   These two important cash outflows, coupled
1-  Shc .t,!Ltv- -;.^"                                 -ka-a   wsls.4e,1 1begryn 4,n fhe ee-rl,-
LAY   L*C              -                                             -    _.        
1980s (para. 8) aggravated ANP's cash position substantially. Furthermore,
ANP's weak management failed to adopt remedial measures in a timely manner,
and neither costs were controlled no tariffs adjusted in line with the
declining traffic and revenues. ANP's total revenues were not sufficient to
cover cash deficits during  1984  to  1986.    For  Montevideo port, the 1986
revenues were not even sufficient to cover working expenses. Consequently,
ANP had to resort to short and long-term loans to cover its financing gap.
The gradual erosion of the peso also contributed to increase current
liabilities related to external suppliers, further aggravating its cash
position.
(c) Balance Sheets
11.       ANP's balance sheets  for  1982  to  1986  (Table  2 of this Annex)
indicate that the net fixed assets increased, in nominal values from N$ 6.4
billion in 1982 to N$ 47.7 billion ill 1986 (7452 net increase) but actually
decreased from N$ 102.6 billion to N$ 82.3 billion (202 decrease) in constant
1987 pesos. This substantial increase in the nominal value is due to the
revaluation of fixed assets and the devaluation of the peso, and the decrease
in constant values is due to  almost  no new investment and retirement of old
assets.  Similarly,  current  assets  rose  from  N$ 596  million  in 1982 to
N$ 1,847 million in 1986  iA4  nominal  value  (310Z increase) but in constant
terms declined,  mainly  due  to  declining  receivables  and  cash balances.
Current liabilities increased from N$ 383 million to N$ 2,895 million for the
same period (about 756Z increase).    The  current and liquid ratios worsened
from 1.6 and 1.4 in 1982 to 0.6 and 0.5 respectively in 1986. This confirms
ANP's inability to pay off its current debts. The most serious problem was
that the total long-term debts increased from N$ 545 million in 1982 to
N$ 6,657 million in 1986--a net increase of over 110O. The debt equity



- 71 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 9
ratio has been satisfactory in this  period  but  mainly due to the effect of
revaluation of fixed assets.
E.   Future Financial Perfarmance
(a) Financial Objective of ANP
12.       ANP should always remain  a financially self-sufficient enterprise.
ANP should aim to overcome present financial difficulties and generate
revenues sufficient to cover all operating expenses, debt service charges,
and a contribution to future investments for renewal or expansion of port
facilities. In order to achieve this objective it would be necessary to
restructure ANP. Based on this restructuring a financial forecast has been
prepared and is discussed in the following paragraphs.
(b) Financial Forecast
13.       The financial tables comprising  forecast Income Statements (Tables
3 and 6), Fund Flow Statement (Tables 4 and 7) and Balance Sheets (Tables 5
and 8) are attached to this Annex.    Each table was prepared on the basis of
'with restructuring of ANP' and 'without  restructuring of ANP'.  The results
clearly  indicate  that without   such   restructuring,  ANP  cannot  become
financially viable.   The  Income  Statement  under the restructuring program
(Table 3) demonstrates that  the  working  and operating ratios would improve
from 86 and 103 in 1987 to a healthy 61 and 79 respectively in 1995.  In real
terms, net operating revenues would  improve  from  an N$ 0.3 billion loss in
1986 to an N$ 2.8 billion profit in 1995. Starting in 1990 ANP's revenues,
including  depreciation,  will  cover   all   operating  expenses,  all  dabt
obligations and a satisfactory contribution toward future investmentE or
replacement  of  assets  and  expansion  of  facilities.    In  addition, the
restructuring would enable ANP, starting in 1993, to transfer funds to the
Government Treasury (Rentas Generales) from its annual net surplus (Table 4).
However, in the initial years of the implementation of the project, ANP would
need a Government subsidy totaling N$6.2 billion (US$20 million equivalent)
in the 1988-1989 period.  The financial  rate of return on revalued net fixed
assets would improve substantially from -0.62 in 1987 to 42 in 1995. The
financial targets such as the operating ratio, rate of return on net fixed
assets, tariff restructuring and Government financial contribution are part
of the conditionality for the proposed project.
14.       Under the 'with  restructuring'  case,  ANP's  debt service charges
would be gradually reduced to about US$3.7 million a year in 1995 as against
US$18.0 million in  1988.    No  additional  local  or  foreign loans will be
secured by ANP between 1991 and 1995. A debt limitation covenant is included
in the loan documents.
15.       The forecast Balance Sheets (Table 5) indicate that the debt equity
ratio would remain, throughout the forecast period, at a very satisfactory
level. The current ratio would improve from a poor 0.4 in 1987 to a modest
1.8 in 1995. Long-term loans will gradually reduce from a high of N$ 10.3
billion in 1987 to N$ 6.5 billion in 1995.
16.       Based on the above, it  is  evident  that if ANP is restructured it
can produce impressive results.    If,  however,  it is not restructured, the
financial situation will deteriorate further, the Government financial



- 72 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 9
obligations will be much  higher  and  ANP  will  not remain competitive with
neighboring ports.  The following is  a summary of comparative results of the
'with' and 'without' restructuring program:
With           Without
Restructuring   Restructuring
Staff costs by 1992                 N$ 5.7 billion  N$ 8.2 billion
Working Ratio in 1995                   612              792
Financial Rate of Return in 1995         42             1.42
Government subsidy to ANP
during 1987 and 1995              N$ 6.1 billion  N$ 11.4 billion
ANP's cash dividend to
Government up to 1995             N$ 8.0 billion  N$ 0 billion
Under the 'without' situation  ANP  would  continue to have puor productivity
performance and excess  staff  costs  of  over  N$  2  billion  a  year.  The
financial rate of return on net fixed  assets  would only oe 1.42 in 1995 and
the Government would end  up  paying  a  subsidy  of  N$  11.4 billion to ANP
(contrary  to  receiving  cash   dividends  under  the  'with  restructuring'
forecast).   In  addition,  with  the  improvements  in  operating practices,
reorganization and institutional  strengthening,  ANP  can become technically
productive. commercially competitive and financially a viable concern.
*c) Sensitivity Analysis
17.       A sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess the impact of some
risk elements as follows:
(a) Absence of Government subsidy; and
(b) Delay in manpower reductions.
If the Government's financial assistance of US$20 million is not provided ANP
as assumed in the forecast, ANP will have to seek additional high cost loans
from local sources.   This  will  increase  the overall debt obligations. ANP
would be in dat,per of getting caught into the vicious circle of borrowing
funds in a  continuing  manner  only  to  pay  past  debts.   It is therefore
advantageous to both the Government and ANP that the former provides the
required financial subsidy.   Concerning  manpower,  if  ANP failed to reduce
staff costs as assumed, by 1991 the operating ratio would be about 112?
instead of 842 as shown in the first forecast, and there would be a cash
deficit of about US$37 million during the forecast period. Furthermore, net
losses would continue  until  1994.    This  would  definitely impose a heavy
additional financial burden on the public finances.
II. SMALL CRAFT AND FISHING PORTS
18.       DNH is responsible for  operating  and  maintaining the small craft
ports at Punta del Este, Piriapolis and the fishing port at La Paloma, all of
which are part of the project.



- 73 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 9
A.   Punta del Este Port
(a) Past and Present Financial Performance
19.       DNH does not have  an  elaborate  accounting  or costing system for
this port. The revenue and cost figures are shown in global terms and it is
difficult to carry out a detail cost analysis or evaluation of finances.
With the help of consultants, attempts were made to prepare Income Statements
and the Funds Flow Statements for 1983 to 1987 (Tables 9 and 10). The
results indicate that Punta del Este has become a highly profitable port
since 1986 (Table 9). In addition. it has benefitted from the fact that the
Government has been paying all investments and debt service charges.
(b) Financial Forecast
20.       A financial forecast for the  Punta  del Este Port was prepared for
1988-2000 period. All assumptions used for this forecast are recorded in
Attachment 1 of this Annex.   Tue  Income Statement and Funds Flow Statements
are shown in Tables 9 and 10.    The net revenues, after covering total costs
and interest charges, show a continuous rise from N$ 78.5 million in 1990
(before completion of the proposed project) to N$ 198.7 million in 1995 and
to NS 242.4 million  in  the  year  2000.    The working and operating ratios
improve from 32 to 52 in 1988 to  22  and 37 in the year 2000 (Table 9).  The
cash balance will increase from N$ 147.6 million in 1988 to 2,659.6 million
in tne year 2000.  This porr is presently being used at full capacity and the
demand, as per consultants, is 50Z higher than its present capacity.
Although tariffs in real terms have been increased at 102 during 1991, 1995
and 1999 in the forecast, the port could afford to increase them even more
without any impact on the demand.   Punta del Este is therefore a financially
viable port and the total cost recovery through revenues is not a concern at
all.
B.   La Paloma Port
21.       La Paloma is a  commercial  and  fishing  port.  DNH maintains this
port and dredges the channel as and when necessary. Like Punta del Este, DNH
does not maintain proper records which can provide details of revenues and
costs by each activity to ensure achievement of financial cost recovery.
22.       This port does not generate any  revenues.  MTOP has been absorbing
total capital and operating costs through the Government budget. No tariffs
are charged to either foreign or local ships for the use of port facilities.
Even the private fishing industry located at the port, ASTRA, is presently
using about two hectares of land free of cost from the Government. In
addition, in August 1985, the Government also introduced incentives on fish
exports (112 on filet and blocks) and fuel price subsidy of 33? (tax
exemption) to benefit ASTRA.   However,  the  Government should ensure that a
port cost recovery program is established, through adequate tariffs, from
1992 onwards, when the proposed project will be completed.
23.       Based on investment needs,  the  financing  plan agreed between the
Bank and the Government, traffic forecasts prepared by DNH and consultants,
and the major assumptions noted in the attachment 1, forecast Income
Statements and Funds Flow Statement (Table 11) for La Paloma were prepared
for the years 1988 to 2000.    In  this  forecast, focus was centered in cost



- 74 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 9
recovery of port operations through revenues, to ultimately achieve the
financial self-sufficiency of the port. It should be noted that tariffs were
set at levels which will not discourage the clients from using the port. In
addition, ASTRA's financial situation was analyzed to determine its capacity
to start paying port dues. The results are shown below:
INCOME STATEMENT (US$ M)'/
--------- ACTUAL ----------    ----- PROJECTION ----
1984185   1985/86   1986/87    1987       1988    1989
Sales                    9.1       10.2      14.5       19.3      24.1    24.1
Cost of Sales           (4.9)      (5.2)      (8.0)     (8.0)   (10.0)  (10.5)
Gross Profit             4.2        5.0        6.5      11.3      14.1    13.6
Admin. Financial
Expenses & Dept.      (7.6)      (8.9)      (4.9)     (7.1)      9.4     9.0
*Net Profi: (loss)      (3.4)      (3.2)       1.6       4.2       4.7     4.6
1/  Source - IFC Supervision Report, dated November 13, 1987.
After incurring net losses in 84/85  and  85/86, ASTRA generated a net profit
of about US$ 1.6  million  in  86/87  and  will  continue to generate greater
profits (US$ 4.2 million in  1987  to  US$  4.6  million in 1989).  ASTRA is,
therefore. in a comfortable Dosition  to  start  pavinR  toward the use of La
Paloma Port.  The  port, however  neeCs at least another factory of a similar
size as ASTRA'E so  that  the  port  operat4ng  costs  can  be shared by them
without any unoue financial burden on them.
24.       With the  cost  recovery  program  for  La  Paloma  port the Income
Statements (Table 11) indicate that the estimated working and operating
ratios of 200 and 877 respectively (beginning of port charges at a small
scale) in 1991 will substantially improve to 18 and 94 in the year 2000
(Table 11). The net operating losses will decrease gradually from N$ 143.5
millior in 1988 to N$ 12.7  million  in  2000.   The La Paloma port will also
have a net cash balance of N$ 70.4 million by 2001, which should be
sufficient for the size or operations the port is expected to have (Table 9).
By the year 1993, the port will be able to generate funds to cover all of the
working costs (excluding depreciation, which is also a source of funds); by
1994 the revenues will cover the working costs and interest on debts; and by
1998 the revenues will also cover some of the debt payments. The Government
is willing to provide annual financial contributions until the port can stand
on its own.   From  1990  to  2001  the  total  financial contribution of the
Government is e timated to be N$ 3.4 billion (about US$10.0 million).  Around
the year 2000 t   port should become financially self-sufficient.
25.       The Bank reached agreement during negotiations that disbursement of
loan proceeds for the project's  proposed  investments  in this port will not
materialize until another  fishing  plant  started-up  its  operation next to
ASTRA.
26.       Through the technical assistance  under  the project, the La Paloma
port would be assisted in establishing a commercially based accounting
system, a billing system, a costing system and a cost based tariff structure.



- 75 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 9
C. Piriapolis
27.       Since the demand for a tourism  port  is higher than Punta del Este
can accommodate, the Government decided to develop Piriapolis so that excess
traffic from Punta del Este can be diverted to Piriapolis. In addition to
the port's normal revenues, two additional revenue s,urces are expected to
provide substantial income to this port. These are:
li) leasing to private concessionaires for commercial development of
about 4,000 m2 of land owned bi DNH within the port boundary,
starting from 1994, at US$40 per m over 30 years; and
(ii) the  transfer  of  about  US$2.6  'iiiior  by  the  Intendencia  de
Maidonado to the port (net presenit valv.e discounted at 6Z) over 15
years, starting in 1996.   These  fundf  will be generated from the
appreciation in values of land and properties (real estate) located
next to the port.   The  total  area  is estimated to be 20,000 m2,
which will be exploited by the Intendencia and will be developed by
the private sector.
28.       Based on  the  investment  plan  and  major  assumptions  used, the
financial forecast was  prepared.    The  Income  Statement  (Table 10) shows
improvement in Working and Operating ratios from 1081 and 2690 to 13 and 57
in  year  2000.    The  port  is  expected  to  generate  sufficient revenues
f4-IsiA4,a 4toea t4i gnu  14i  nof para.  971 to  cover all operating costs
including depreciation.  After 1995 the port revenues will begin to cover all
operating costs and interest  charges.    The  Fund Flow Statement (Table 11)
indicates that together with Governmint financial contribution (which would
be for capital cost and debt payment o, investments on the breakwater and the
dike financed by IBRD and Eximbank), the Port has potential to become
financially viable. Because of debt service charges on the breakwater and
the dike are to be paid in 17 yearf, the Government Contribution will
continue until year 2001. The total Gwvernment contribution during 1987-2003
would be about N$2.5 billion which is less than the capital cost of the
breakwater and the dike. But if the fund flow to the Port from land and
property value appreciation does not materialize, then the Government
contribution will be substantially increased from N$2.5 billion to N$3.7
billion -- a 502 increase.   From year 2004 no Government contribution should
be required by Piriapolis as it is expected to be fully financially self-
sufficient. During these years the port would also build up a good cash
balance resulting in N$67 million in 2004.
29.       The Government agreed to a plan  of action which will ensure a cost
recovery program through  user  charges.    Through  the technical assistance
under the project, this port will  also  be  provided with help in setting up
accounting, costing, tariff and billing systems.
October 1988



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Table I
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
ANP's Incomne Statements 1982-1986
(in thousaaid current and constant March 31, 1988 N$)
146                      163                       , 414                    1445
jute' ~~e ~~,.use.     CsorfU       Cgsst.01    cutP.No       Capst.fl  ~urr.u4         Lomst.ml ~ er 4#          Iamst4.      C,rr its         s~t
;art "is                             1S.v71      24I.57       I' 5.544     :35.4o1       37.V6?      j65.o4v       74.440     214,v43       70.637      1;~j
to.,,,s                              27.317      437.n63       51,4fl     129.114       W18754      536.694      163.172      !2..319      205.816 
W thing                    ~~~~~4.164   77..41       11.344      104.770       Zz.OoS      u10.!1a      '9.602       143.i6b       7*.s4g     l:1.614
re,04n CutsG5 wol                   ts.e6"   1.gSI.941       192714   i.77..409        .1a2.7lS   1.3l5.973      49.030   ~.433.667        760.704    2i.e
,totss.                1.5.934   Z.,51. 3~~~~~~74  193,734   1.7653.62    121.07*      6W47*.?      221.4)61     *35.574      157:64      Z71.'32
km:os:  Clavie;Iu                   .0.16    3.135.136        321.171   3.v15.132       53o.303   2.63.S.35       110.341   ..329.134   1.941.140   3.377,044
isocial t4fI0   It          i4.661      35.1I0        31.u51     35.744        .5.205      334.eI6       92.93u     2,7.l64       3564, gisi
*34ov  'cs1s Sterns                  5.40 Z44.1                99,739      919.379       u3.2t1   1,011.926    13.1.31   IM.;V.4           427.759      73e.1133
7s~~~e1 'Is              *~~~~.If.190I.okQ.S13     i45.6016W       624      .4.3    6.155.72   I.:92.19t   .. 90. 400   *.vi2.109   7.3v.3
2 ~~~~~~~~svatiae Ememes, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ 1.1.42 3.1.1:
-141te141 fa0l.0tc.                  41.944      a71.37t       31.?37      495.340      169.494      949.169      110.237     .04.111      4fp..671     793.7e1
at"Ir-Isf.-e.t. sits                  66         4e1.644      194.741    .9.55           1.5         352,391      44'.169   1. 53*232      1270.333     445.59?
trsesns  .514  ~            ...          ......   .  ....     .......... .         .    .. .          ..... .....
total  Zi                         464.43!   1.7bi.441       ,33.n69   5.637.5         990,533   4.961.460   1..662.4 1  .411.740   4. L4.4,06   7.145.111
3 sf011 OifSlfitl'21         11~4.705    .679.17V     312.511  L2.600.7         336.700   1.7416.722      409.544   t.171.6Ow        446.44     .11441591
4 ttvrtper prt
;N.eeis~ 141                         37.146      545.flI       72.1.5      eo5.244      131.591      ,6.14,1      :4u,331      6%.476      444.316      !95.Iy3
C:~~~~tt  Ii                21~~~~Z.206  339.7607     21.014     Ube.41         4t.v44     zl05.s       104.442      300.261       110.946     104.914
lit  0W. '~~At.~Qtt$4I      13.49       s.6           43.261     346.956       42.54!      443.3.53     13.69        39h.4.4      40.,41.      3i4.674
~~$i  lot.*o,s~~1.4a1     "'1.433   Iis.6            1.'j17,44! 913,447   1.4$2.614   ?.427,539                                 A.S.52 t6135 4,54.467   1.133.4054
3af  lot. c3stsai*.40                34.05.3   LLO.10.         g42.173   ,.103.D12   L.vIl.579   1.1,7.53S   1.917.067   1.7I3.q21    4,109.551Z        .!.4
owl',. As,eqiIs~~~~3-~i    i4!.o      1.135.354      1335.92   3.179.435      451.245    M.:,.:u7       545,455   1.Ia6.354       3e,.435        !eo:45
I ~~~er~~~ia~~~oi ~1.10.10   1.leo.ai                 101.4961.3IM53.S          134.452   1.e446.331      446.141   1.290.19        140.433   1.249.aft
:Oeti5 t0tiai'i              o2.153j   4.401791        619.002   ?.e477.10   1.417.231   *.4.6            .4!5.Si4                 4 7494,91    6.490.64
og  :,y.9.~~~i.'5~9'     ".165    1~.2J.6.0       164.302    .7.'?          112.593      13.395        4e.010      :1.10l0    '403.446,   *46.A8.o.
.i.1'veot Cn.rts          ~            Z4.i37      &M.1102      7S.423        4.962      L139.344      14.409       24.0,4j      iv.411     9M:."l         0.4.s.
I  .C4@0ate Intel                                                                   3,9    1.464.310   LX63.7l0   4. 10. '2*   2.415*.41    1.joi::
~3  t-.'ee  4IsallUSt              -                                                     l.7..      . 
4 lit 75vSItOI  ...---    ***....~.............                                  .....    ...... ......    .....                     .....
*u.es'I.i1-IZ-t31  55.048   1.207.673       109.679~~~~L 1.700.75   t333.71v)   (9lS.669) (1.6114.e4) (36343)1.412.6371  577o4
.3i Nitebta .4u                         2           72          .5           es           lv           'L,           1           l6
la Oar nies Attie W~                         69          6             2           62           92           43,;                      4.          .094
14 &-sturft 3Afee FilePts
usceceeft rate at ONtOi 3. ON6                                                                                                     Ila3Io3lso
dilftUAl ...tRt4                                   I'.;4,5a.1                                                         ~l4 
~fl5t for ct51140
Urriffitv~-                          I*I~                        .*'                      3v.4                       .7
SeCfI: '0. CesOS1141tut O   4006 MNISe
wage i14



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
URUGUA 
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
ANP's Audited Balance Sheets 1982-1986
(in million current and constant March 31, 1988 N$)
l9U2                      1i3                     1994                     1985                     19941/
....................................                               ............................................. ...
Curr. IS   Const. ms  Curr. NS   const. ns  Curr. Ps   Coast. mS  Curt. NS   Coast. MS  Cuer. "S   Const. "
......
Current hutia
Casl                              2e2       *.aa           26t       2.e53         413        2.011         231          e77         100       1.20,
pucal @ule                        292       4.,77          3SI       2.930          354       1,782         492        1,416         499          -59
otwiul lots                       (42)       (41           4)          3*-                                  ..           ....1
1nwgetgrt                         72        1.143         102          944         Io?          937         233         449          394         47
ffurut                             R2         197           22         202           39         194          84          243         254          434
........ ..........
Idt total                      594        9.5449         9oi       4.34           995      4.994        1.045       3,005        1,847       3.10
f     A Assets
Esaoumls                         --           --2 ;70                                72         3*4          72          !07           12         125
4.320    104.44*        9.200       14.004      14.573       93,012      31.3a        44,043      52.315       90.103
Lola aCCue. DOM ri c1171                   (1,94          3251      '2.9441        tS) 1         4 4241  12.2211      (4,4951     (4.5951    (7,913i
OhDI  w                                       ..          . f"                                               so           St 5
lntangsile                         3                       12          -            14          80          --          *
...........                  ..............  ..........  .........  ..........  ..........  .......... .....
iuo-totat                     .40a     102.594        8.959      92.462       15.779       79.031     29.514       59.754      47.192       U.3115
................ ..........   ............. .  _ .......  ...... ...   .............  ..........  .... .....  ..........   ... ... .  _....  ....... ........... .
Total Assets                       l,uU2    112.143        9.e49       99.84*     1.771        84,019      30.541      e2.759       49.e39      85.495
LIAOILITIES
Cuirrnt LLathiatin                313       4.134          512       4.111          761       3.944       1,714      4*927         2.895       4'994
.Ono Tpg i.ouam                  545        9.737         t43        4.300       1.850        9,24        3.331       9.579        4.o57      L1.445
foltl r-                                        3         ..             I          .           ..          ..           . 
Eeutst,:
Rely4itiA                    4019 9t.430              0.344      74.914       14.491      72.5t4       27.141      79,090       44.00e      75.792
Excuano. Roti Lenn             -                         --         -292)                 (1,4244      u1.4371     (4.1301      (2.954)  t5.091'
Surslwgi(elsi                    55         eV           110        ,01 O44)                 (2171        20t)        (5941       '9511    i1.471
~~~~~~.. . .....   .. _._ .......... ...  .                     h.           ...... _.......   .. . .. . .. ......
Total Lialitt"n                    7.002    112. It         9,449      96,944       14.711      14,014       30,541      87,949       49.e9      95.495
uOsl  Ratio                       1.4         1.4          1.1         1.!          1.1         1.1         0.5          0.5          0.3          .5
CurreNt Ratio                     1.4          I.4         1.3         1.3          1.3         1.3          0.4         0.4                      0.4
C.gt/Iout, R.tio               12/t         12191       13/7         13S/7        9191         9191        9191         9/9         71/93       7/93
1/ UAIUitU fiqiwu
arCIs     WI  Cuotwtauts af tm  u,sze$
N,. ItM



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
ANP's Forecast Income Statements 1987-1995 (with Restructuring of ANP)
(in thousand constart March 31, 1988 N$)
1987        1988        1989        1990         1991         1992        '993         1994
Port Dum                               101,120     111,232     122.355      134,591     148,050       '62.955     162.d55     162,955     162,855
To*Ing                                695,832      695.832     702.790     702.'90      709,818      709,d8a     709,818      -09.,988      9,l
BerT Ing                               245,848     270,433     297,476      327.224     559,946      395,941      395,941     3595,941    395,.941
fr.IgMt Charges (EXPOrItS            1.637,301   2,312,880   2.376. 59   2,442.698   2,501.223    2.562. 379   2.626,344   2,693.311   2, 63.4d8
Storage                                512.91Z     547,418     568.80.     593,552      618, 301     643,200     649,980      656.,96     6i3.5 M
Frelgnt Charge  I lmo'ts)           5, 553, 169   4, 327.835   4,436,030   4. 546,931   4,660.605    4, 777.120   4,696. 548   5, 318, 9 '1  3,144, 435
Soe! a I T*enrt  utsn, contantersl     994,401   1,100,596   1,127.78%   1.160,632   1,193.519    1,236,386   1,226,386   1.226.386   1,226. 86
G ner - Cola Storage                   237,000     379,200     379,200      579.200     379,200      379.200      379.200     379,200     379, 2Cc
Rental at Oredgtng EqU'wgnlt                 0           0     520,576      520,576     520,576      520.576      520, 576    520.576     520. '6
Total 1                        9.977,584   9,745,225  10,531,564  10,808,192  11,091,238   11,377,475  11,567,648  11,763.944  11.96.6549
* ....... ..  ---.-5- .-.  .s_ s.sss...........s...................... __ ...  . ..s.... ss...s ..... _. ._...s............... .
2. OperatIng ExoensMs
staff Cost                          7,704,712   7,704,712   6,238,804   5,960,999   5,760,035    5.696,472   5,446,123   5,446.123   5,446,123
avterials                            1.186,014   1,185,948     361,936      361.936     361,936      361 ,935     361,936     361,936     361,936
Oter (41Ct1 eltyc, dater ate,)        664,159      664,232     388,192      388.192     388,192      388,192      388,192     388,192     368,192
9redo7(n  Cost                               0           0   1.896,000   1.896.000   1.896.000    1.896,000   1.89.000   1.896.000   1.898.C00
Total 2                        9,554.886   9,554,892   9.884,931   8,607,126   8,406,162    8,342.600   8,092.250   8.092,250   8.092,250
3, 4ross Marc"n (1-21                     422.699     190,333   1.64,6533   2,201,066   2.655,076    3,034,875   3,47%,398   3,671,694  3,874.399
4. Interior Ports
RvenuOs (a)                          1,137,600   1,160,352   1,183,420   1.207,120   1,231,136    1,255,784   1.280,92S    1,306.570   1,332.729
costs    (                              18.960      19.592      20,224       20.856      21.486        22.120      22,752      23.>        24.016
Not Revenuaa (a-a)                   1,118,640   1,140,760   1, 163, 196   1. 186,264   1, 209,648    1,233.664   1 258.173   1,283.186   1,308.713
...sse   .sns           .sess.  s.               .ss.   _asa                 .e.  _senn             as
S. AMPS Total Rev. 0l40)               11,115,184  10,905.577  11,714,984  12.015,312  12,322,374   12,635,259  12,848,573  13.070,514  13,299,377
6, MIP°s Total Cost (2*48)              9.573.846  _9,574.484   8.905.155   9.627.982   8.427,650    8.364.720   8,115.002   8,115,634   8.116.266
7. worlkino Revenue (54)                1,541,339   1,551,093   2.z09,829   3.387,330   5,894,724    4.268.589   4,733,571   4,9"4,880   5,853,111
cesses       5    n    d        s      o    _ s      - a"   n         e      _    -     e      e *.  -*   _
8. o preclatlon                         I,826,722   1,839,81   1,844,12b   1,873,819   1,941.181    2.045.298   2.lo,1 ,4  2,2V8,ZIJ    W ,4 ,A
v. AMP'S Total Operatfng Cost 16+6)   11.400.568  11.414.295  I.7e,P,283  10,01.801  10,368.831   10.410,017  10.263,906  10.413,842  10.545.274
10. ANP s Nat Operlnan Rovenue (5-91    (285,383)   (508,717)    965,701   1,513,511   1.953,543    2,223.242   2.564,667   2,656,672   2,754,IC3
it. Interest Charge                      1.663.573   1,663.684   1,183.139   1,059.275   1,062.943    1.045.327      953,496      622,517     343.3"99
Met  wvnuaf(loss)              (1,948,957) (2,172,4011   (217,4381    454,236      890,600    1,177,915   1,611.171   2,034.155   2,410,'34
sneinssa.  55555                         *      _      .        l         s_  *--5 __
worMing Ratio (S)                                0.86        0.88         0.76        0.72        0.66          0.66        0.63        0.62         0.61
Oorattng Ratlo (S)                               1.03         1,05        0.92        0.87        0,84          o.82        0.80        0.80         0,79
Tl_  Interest Erned                             (0.17)       (0.311       0.82        1.46         1.92         2.26        3.11        5.12       1",29
'o.rage  t F Iex  Aets (b Iillon)                       8l,300      79,895       74,811      74,806      75,907        76,218      72.391      68,142
Return an Nat FI a" Ase"                                     (0.61        1.2         2.0          2.6          2.9         3.3          3.7         4,3
UeAUrt AIP. Cnsultt  den6   t4. MIsola
Ny 19"8



- 79 -                                                      ANNEX 4
Table 4
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
ANP's Forecast Fund Flow Statement 1987-1995 (with Restructuring of ANP)
(in thousand constant March 1988 N$)
1967       I968         1989        1990        1991         1992        1993        1994        199
Sources
IntenlaI Ci asn Goa_otlons
Nor ODorating Revenues                (285.383)   I' . 717)    965,701  1I513511   1.913,543    2.223,242   2,564,667   2,656.672   2.794.103
Oeoreclatlon                         1.826.722   l.li,oll   1.844,128   1.873.819   1.941.181    2.045,296   2,168.904   2.296.266   2.429.306
Other (Gov?t SubsldV)                        0  4- 6.928   1,911.464             0           0            0           0            0           a3
SuYotatl                       4.541.339   5,166.021   4.121.313   3.587.330   3.694.724    4,268.540   4.733.571   4.954.880   5.183.111
BSrrow I nos                         -f-*   *                         *                                 b
Cred!t 798/LR                          654,436
ProWse8 Loans:
JAx                                       0           0      76.000     450,000     660.000      650.000     350,000      100.000     27.000
8IRF                                      0           0     115,000     675,000   1,000.000      978.000      820.000     150.000      41.0
Local Loaf-$                         2.115.304                                   0           0                                                0
Subtonal                       2.769,740           0     191,000   1.125.000   1.660.000    1.625.000      870.000     250.000     68.000
Total Souress                  4.311.079   95668,021   4.912.313   4.512,330   5.554,724    5,893.940   5.603.571   5.204.880   5,251.111
ABCI Icatlon
I nvetnts
C,.ott 79V/I                           654.436           0           0           0            0            0           0           0           0
PropSCA soft Projeit:
lRF, JEX and MP                          0           0     503. 900   1.845.300    739,300    2.672.800   1.417.200      409,000     114.100
OOr Investment                              0     15St000     316.000     316,000     316.000      3106000      316000      A,.00       316E000
T@to5  lnvlStmts                 654.436     158.000     619.900   2.161.300   3.055.300    2,988,800   1.733.200      549.600     430,100
Debt ServIce Chnraes                   ..in                      -...  ..u              _     n _
Princi9.l:  intwrncl Loans             551,786   2.596.522     626.628     401.636      63.418       63.410            0           0           0
External Loa:
41RF                       904.645     904.645     904.645     789.747     789.747      789.747      789,747   1,079.414    677.905
-th*r (IncludIng JEX)    791.560       653.0       443.8"4     233.439     387.639      387.639      317.639     154.200  1#.2Q0
Subtotal                2.247.961   4.114,970    1,974937   1.424.822   1.240.80)4    1.240.W04   1.177.266   1.233.614     U2,o105
.owl .. mu   _*                          _       wwd ~ Wdm                 ~         .000U
IntIrost  Internal Loons               374.925     357.744     122,394      72.555      44,438        4,439           0           0            0
External Lns:
eIRF                      1,073.168   1.152.578     966.725     904.510     927,513      908.099      850.935     529.182     255.059
.Other (Includ. JEX)        214.880     153.260      94.020      82,210      90.992       92.789      102.560      93335      88.3
Subtotol                 1,663.573   1.663.582   1,183,139   1.059,275   1.02.943    1.045.327      953.495     622.517     343.399
x               -                                   -             -            -           -  _        -__
Lasn ulvledni' to Governgat                  0           0           0           0            0            0   1,000.000   4.000.000   3,000.000
Subtotal                       4,565.970   5,936.553   3.777.976   4,645.397   1.359.047    5,274.931   4,S64,082  6.405.731   4.605,604
Cash at daolnntno of Yewr            1.222.372     967.480     598,948   1.733.285   1.S66.32    2.051,724   2.680.333   3.419.824   2,218,975
Canl *t End of Year                    967.,80     589.948   1.733,285   1.866,352   2,061.724    2,680,333   3,419.824   2.21S.973   2,864.480
Annual Cash vartIattn                 (234,8911   (36S.532)  1,134,337    (133.087)    195.677      618.609      739.491  (1,200.8511    645,507
Source:  AM, Consultants and MIsSIon esta1tan
Y 1968



tUUJGUAY
TRM4SPCl FPROJECT I
Forecast Balance S( eets 1981-199S (With Restructurlng of AIP)
(In thousand constant March 1988 N$)
1987        1988         1989        1990         1991         1092        1993         1994       1995
ASSF I S                           sfft.)
Current
Cash                          961,480      598,948    1,733,285    1,8b6,352    2,061,724   2,680.353   3,419,824    2.218,973  2,664,480
Recolvables                 2.128.897   2.128.897   2,128,897   2.128.897    2.128.891      2.128.897   2.128.897    2.128.897  2.128.897
Subtotal                    3.096.s31    2.727.845    3.862.182    3.995,249   4,190.621    4,809,230   5,548,121   4,347.870  4.993.377
Gross Flxed Assets         91,990.533  92,148,533  92,418,333  84,76b3400  87,117,800    89,415,000  90,633.100  86,453,600 86,551,700
Accum. Depreclatlon        (9,849.040) (11.688.851) (13.533,822  (14,014,568) (15.898.387)  117,839,568) (20,008.472) 21.691,458 (24.126.466    O
Wet Fixed Assets           82.141,493  80,459,682  78.884.511  70.738,832  71.219.413   72.025,432  70.624.628  64.756.142 62.425.234            1
Total Assets               85,237,871   83,187,527  82,746,693   74,734,081   75,410,054   76,834,662  76,173,349  69,104,012 67,418,611
LIABILITIES
Current                     6,921,756    4,781,722    4,294,893   4,019,875    4,094,072    4,104,596   3,871.074    3,469,754   2,806,786
Long-Term Loans             10,277,071    8,718,662    7,561,353   7,663,267    8,147,881   8,595,495    8,288,109   7,304,495  6,546,390
Capital and Reserve        68,039,044  69,687,143   70,890,447  63.050,939  63.168,081    64,134.569  64,014,166   58.524,763  58,065,435
Total Llabilities          85,237,871   83,187,527   82,746,693  74,445,256   75,410,034    76.834,662   76,173,349  69,104,012 67,418,611
uin.in.u...  *..fi. ._... um..u.U.._. u.uu.......um  .Sss.ma    _u._au.inmm   .in.u..a.a  am..... __- *.m .*-..w.a-.__.
Current Ratio                    0.4           0.6         0.9          1.0          1.0          1.2          1.4         1.3         1.8
Oebt/Equlty Ratio                15/87        11/89        11/89       13/81       14/86         14/86       14/86        13/87       1288
Source: NP, CoXsultants and Misslon estimates
Hey 1988



URUGUAY
TRtANSPORT PROJ ECT I
Income S:trigeenMt, 1985-2000
Tin thousand cosa    ach 31, 1988 NST
PUNTA DEL ESTE
1,49  1,94  .99  1,86     ,99      i.90       ,99     3.9"          ,19         1.92    1993        3,94    3995      1,9       3,91      ,99      1,99 I99
I-OWeAtIIa  kninso
lnarma                      iii.25    8o,419   68..'%   233,431 to) ,o,.'28uo    3,uvo  219.'nmi If, 212.4ftn  10l 1 I72,oMD  27?,t00   7212000  '12,0011 212,000  ?2.200n  27?,OuO  2.12,00   272,0911
loorvcti                                                                                                      218,tf0 lo  28,Uft   23.OoO    29,000  29,000   20,000  7290,o   29,000   29,09    2340W
lr.l4  noearse  ,.fooriq    ne,en                                                                              311,499, to)  ju,u0   30,000    3U0,00   61,000   03,000   lis,vO     03,000   "9,099I  99,0100
I4  fab tal                76.:53   96,419  111,O9'  233,431       202, 3'0t  218.vou  :lb,'tv  219.oiO      slo,trv,t      330, 330SS,000   330,00   363,000  3&3,OvO  '13,000  313,000  399,000  399,0W
2-6Qortimq p.ooenw
PuegogaIIl)                                    275,5?3   31,969       34,638   31,40(ou  36,MOn   31t'Ot,o     46,000)      46,4)110   14,000    47,170   67,10   47,370   61,630   43,600   431,900   431,1110
Uatmnual aid nopplien                           ?1,oua   31,410       24,SvO   13uo1,olon 31,00    1000        36,0(10 lb)  36,000o  36,0to0    36,000   38,000    38,000   33,000   38,000   40,000  40,39
2.A  krbiug Eosl                               14,513   69,36        59,139   69,00v   69,000   o9,oln         92,000      92,000   92,000    55,310   35,310   35,370   86,800O  916,0100    9,900    9,80O
2.2 8epreciatban II,        44,5S.o   41,556   40,556   44.,356       40,556t  44,5S6   44,556   44,S36        51,0t0       57,000    51,000    51,000   51,000   51,000   51,000   5',000   57,000   51,0W
2 Sub Iola       .32.                          9 1, 129  133,145     303,694  113,556  113,556  113,556       139,00       139,000  139,000  140,310  142,3?0  142,310  141,900  143,900   193,900  145,1100I
3-klt Opeating Ieneuei llniif   3233l*'o-  II,406                        Qs,"0  304,444  100,644  10.4,1V4    393,000         M9,000  191,000   1190,030  220,63   220,030  219,200  2194,200  2153,200  253,290 
4iotertoi  (Iwgol ij                                                               1, 4,.   13,400   25,900       27,400       26,900   26,300    24,100   21,900   19,100   37,400   25,300   13,300   10.100
5-*13l brhfmes  3-4                                (3.0' 130,436         90,6u6  101,1144   91,044   10,544      163,60D      164,100  364,700   165,530  190,1730  200,9130  201,900  23,900  240,100  202,400
IMhOaq ratio  2.1:1                ~-.53                    '. So      ..2'      0.321     U.3S2    0.312        0.25         0.25     0.25       0.25     0.24      0.24     0.24      v. 24    0.22      0.22
letakisag rato  2:3                               I. v       49         v.51     U.'..,    ,. 52    v.2.         v. 42        0.42     0,42       u.43     0.39      0.19     0. 40     0.40     0.31      0 3'
lowe mataet ifiroolan    3:4                                                    14.'.        i.t    4.,.         6.91         7.30     1.26       7.9BY    16.07    11.20    12.60    14 33    19.33    23.64
htvsa no tot lingO assets   5:o .6I'                       ."           (,.0.    1..,,     ~ ~ .'   U. 2         U. v         0,04     0.04       U.04     (1.05     0.05     0.05      0.05     0.06b     0.06
6-Sip. :03long fixed lts.1141
Is wIlma.p                            OMn5     4.01      tOl          3.422     .011    t.83      3.419        4,363        4, 30    6,249      4,192    4,135    4,018    O.U21    3,964    3,901    3,950
10  Iffhirfsi woall dot. t0 a rp(overy it, de&Aa.d and, Above all, a  ubslantial tariff InLt4.*0e a0s0nbmnq 106 inflalmo. dufferential oe.e 1`995
IbI in adat,ounl dewend of 33, boats pet day lamtb a wnaq%ed Average of ship's lenqgth of 11.2a3 nihi be accomodated  Oros 39   on at ltoiffs of OMS I1  / att and day in peak sIaso. (60 daysf, and 1115201myto  and Oay.
in nfl-peak tenon I3. daysd. Aaoq fhnt boils. lb where 00owing tied to bnooo, pa)ia 10 15196atter and day ma peal waine, and 90161S*atmn and day in oIl-peak wtalog. lbaI renea msil he dovtails.
(13 151.6 theii w   is0*01  r1jI'des to1 use   fwlvte9 Al Isles of Nf31¶'odal lot sit", (6  days in poohk soan., 30 all-peak) a   rmA lOidap 7wr eleclrmilp 160 days peak Amd 3o 0   peakL.
O1 knmano fras wr,ates a, *0Abou 171 306se frog la*1310. tapa imt3 '163 8nov30; and ?110 quar ,noinqg plainan is folly aIiII:nd and ltte is still to onidtisliti d(t #dIn 0(0 of 501 ACV#
prei tol bos, to be 0*114 pirIual, 44n':ilsed 0, (3'.. nev IO&a II after t0' PoIO)C4 (347 buoying and 310 quay Sming pl0(est. 0mosd buit p0r1n4 c*piaotp emill lemma kfb %t * 203 plmies.
lo) Lgamlatmve tariff ,ncreasies lacoling and 9001114.61 of  - in tral Ott"s.
3ff Caap.red o1t0 199., the revenue in(rease M311. gm3jljlon isa.de up of inteaedwi capucily 10192 aillionI and tariff increases (0030 guliam).
(33 bkori lb6 prosect O .146 9%u, 34 peroarnen  afd 23 tesorwany .0lfs, with~ an a.eva4e reaune.a3non of 38566,0OMIveas.  After the Pro..ti (3mo 3993 on), 60 peamaent And 28 tralorarv y                v pyle., nthe (6ia   aetVa
cemwiwat eon plus 33 intiameos i,n veAl leo.. it 1491. 31"4 and I991. 
lb) listed co past epupa iemp. 39051Ms0                                                                                                                                                                                                      (D- x
IIl goned ano .icgngl*ed invoislatnl, of J5114.1 atillton equi alent Opate, 1463 anld I'll, deperecaled ovet io tM51 yarsnd ane olantsaWns of 31312.5 ai33,o.s eqiainaet over t 191199 dwepe.ld a,.0 50 1earn..
III £gtront (ileacs, bas.ed on a lS60.11 zillion loant At !.,SI. -).M5  ecagilgel fee, over I' wears aod 5 yeann of grace Woomd by 398  &Ad: 1W8.5 aillmoo  at 5.51 mnltestn rate, over 31 years and .2 yeAnn of gal by 330                  0
sooule: DIN3. toonollanl,. bang missionm
"my-F,.



URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Fund Flowr Statement
(in thousand constant lOatch 31, 1988 NS$)
PUNTA DEL ESTE
2403     1984     295      It"0      24        98       ,9       9        2992      M9       2993      2999       295       1%        29        29         99       29
[-lateeill Cask1 kwi 1 0son
at2 op.v.t.o  kownns                          21,2239)1 29,400   906,61  214,444  1A.4,44  2u4,444  191,(2*u  191,00  19129,000   2199,o0   220,030   220,o30   22,20    219.2t0   753,20    253,20
apecr.2,m                                     44,350   44,5511   44,t'A   44,¶,56   44.M.61  44,5.S&  51,Wo0  57.000    51,000   51,0220    51,000    51,00       51,000    57,000    51,988    51,90
Su-Io2.2                                      42,521  2114,o92  143,12 11 49,otli 209,u',u  249,0".  '40,o00  295,00    240,00    240,630   21,110   27',636   210,200   21A.,o    320,200   310,200
briE  bwb                                                                 25,000  IW,u0u   s9,tar
Jaw1  2tW  liaw    got                                                    216,022   IIv,u02   24,014
3-W#Aw., Is 011 91V2I12
4-hit met Fanw,aI kuol.,cte                                                         4'0ws   SSOOv     M21000
2.t.2 Soucet                                  42,521  204,(042  143,2r,2  31,000  923,302   202.000  248,o0   2401,000   248,022    2001,030   211,430   211,630   210,200   210,200   310,20041  320,21M
-ss
5. s,ovlmoto
tt0iitt                                                                   80,Urut  0164,BQu  I%2Obl
980.
0-hOt Sewau.t Chug.,
I.28s1iis
br Id Oak                                                                  2Irniu   91,30     I8,?Q6  oI'bu11a 29,000    29,00    29,080    20,400    24,100    23,200    22,500        9,90      9, 200
Jaw.  eu Impor    el                                                         4wg   22.21w    1,10      J,,Wu    1,200     0,100     0, Iu0    5,500      5,00      4,30       190  3     ,200 S2,1100
briE  1.1                                                                                                                          22,000    22,00      22,000    2,1100    22,00      22,80     22,00
Jepia Import bpart                                                                          20,500 I.Y 25 11 0.500    20,520l   20,500    20,500    20,500    20,500    20,500    20.59  120,500
5.11-lotil                      22       21       21  8~~~~~~~~~~~9,4o0  6!6B,'00  2110,220   31,9w    31,400    16,000    55,000    53,400    52,2u0    40,900    40,00  40,800  2,399
atb2   "4 ksaeoq  Yat p                                                        21241,10   283.,00  195,0   60a,9o0   9211,500 1,021,100 2,2291,130 2, 442,9610 2,019,300 2,9401,6090  ,21.1,090 2,19,1.699
at2O   *I Vo2  e   2I                                                    14 ',orj0  ?03..NA11 395,600  105,10  1 32,500 2,021,700 2,'0 1.02442,910 2,019,390 2,8k.961002200 22,392,0902,i09,5W
leryiM2p  81i9 tat                           1001                         4.11.   35,bt'v  212,8212  220,200  220,000   211,M2210 92,030   224,230   220,430   221,300   221,600   205,110   201,900
..................    ..    .                ....      .   ..    .    ...........    .......   .    .........    .........    ...                                        z~~~~b-Il
SUL   M. ceafsiu22wts  SId.0 NI%%omor



URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Income S tatem-ent tI"" 198-2000
(Ln  thousand  Consa.                Mrh  31,  1V88  14$)
LA PALOKA
1,980    1.986    1,931  1,913    I, 9611    l*   1     ,991."    1,992    1.1993        1.994    1,99      I,9       I,'9?    t.9911   I,99       2,001
I-Operating hovno
Komioq1801.   eie al ad0   93.')0v                                                                                              Il3.OvO   133,200 18.000 1.e   139.O 13,000  138,000  135,000   110.140
Lied rutal                                                                                                           9.500 III   9,500    9,508    9.5100    9,SvO       9,500    9.500   19.000
leolft potrftase   h                                                                           16.100    16,400   16,400         t6.400    16,400   16,000   31,100   31.100   31,100   4.6.00
I-Iim  r.tal                            0         0        0         0         0          0    16.400    16,400  123,90v        145,900  1613,900  163,9110  113,60    131,00  513,600  NI3NO
2-glwurtsq Eoost
p.roamul IqP                       22,390   22.010   14,254    8,05   08,050          8,050      8,300     3,300    3,30          8.540    8,540    8,540    8.800    08,80    8,860    9.0164
latmrial ofd Wolin                 34,662   31,111        413   24.500  .24,50       24,500    24,500    24,500   25,000         25,500   26,000   26.500   21,000   21,504   28,'.iO    MM50
2.1 Umriamq Cosl               57,052   59,814   15,161   32,550   5.-,550    32.550    32,300    32.006   33,300             MM4,U   34,540   35.W4   35,800   38,3S.u   16,8.0   S?.564
2.2 DIWKmluIdi        tl       111,000  I I1.4100  111,11    111,000  111.000   111.01.0   111,000   111.000  153.516        I,5615S,516  153,514  153.516  155,576  155.516  151,516
21.   10ltal   2.12.22            168,052  110,814  126,161  143,550  143,550    W1, 550   I4t.30        145800  166,176        181,616  13B,116  iU,ila  180,316  189,616  190,'16, 191.1414
3.801 operalinq Revesu  Ilosozol-2          16,5IIf8417,l,II,7014,5 1 u3,5501 11211,401 h121,4001 462,9164    M4, l61i479,216'  124.116) 110.1761 411,216)  111.1761  1-.66to
4-Imtwnt Cha.rges is)-                                                              12,100    36.7.0    16,600   111,000  126,100         121,100  111,100  100,530f   90,000   19,400   68.110   13.100
S-bt lewut hlost) I( I   3-4               16,.211g84'2.611350lI,e0    1951.1 04.04,101 (244,40014189.0161   tI5464(,ltl528440'6    90.6l6' 419,J70  46.44',l
504k1sg Ratio * 2.1)1                                                                             2.00       2.00     0.2'         0.14      V.21      u.? 21     .20     34,2w     o.21      .18
oparalag Ratio   2:1                                                                              B.71      a. 11     1.51         1.3"1     1.15      1.1Is     1.146    1.116     1.01    ~ 4
gal I;AllsC fDf4ASatS: 4916 lALluall 44 Sh1pi, 322I 611; 1909 91, 49 ships, ;610 615; 1993, 55 simps, 4300 6131 V    an 60 ships. 5400 fill. five oil. it tNlisl
are applied to &I 610 aid IVal .4tiAY; blPS1 lmiol NWi gap of stay; et mthlp tariffom for 44*0119 boils baod an the. ort. skck mill noit paw the aie,e ltvafIs: El luilfof
ad El lawiflS $or loadioand gmi loadin, frWm plodudts &Ad animal ofit. lot lwill IKrau la I"?99 sid 20U0.
fbI No drid9ioq was tetauted. lb. saw:inqs Over 1986 seclude a reduction of ISO 2/b#553,0 .S.ll%31619.D Is avoided *di9iyen tpsp. plmm savings of abot Wl.. amlimo in to
III loss" we borne kV the Eovopremt.o
fli 11 is assumed, frog 1910 on, a rejumthos of 12 touris asisqiell o dirhimgt,i of0 whag will be nssipu to lb Part uaimisatratims. l0te01,l aid smpplits espiefs. are (Dow.
and are nogKtei to mu.,..t b It 32 wuy trnt years on real terms froe 199 on.
'tI first teat of nemIoalso  of oto ,avthlgtsl
III Stawtin i.g  miOnt fixed asy.els Go 11514.1 million in I9311. ploss an iaatesanmt of 11196.132 emllimo  by Om  1992. all wilh a useful life of 50 yes..
191 22 peopl  tbroilb  11   110 for Oport operatious, 12 for dred4gi111, aid 12 tbartstaf  lm l h      for wot apialmltalo .31 real inCrease is lawo  spewseis Mm  91  1994, and 1991 over
li  056SO,000OJyeM  from land festal.
III Couumtl prices, a.maeamg a loan of 115112.7 Billilon OWN, I? years.. S years of grace, .15 comtinl fine, 1.16 haltr I rat, by END and 1551.5 Gilliam over II yearS.. 2 tt Mt 
5.52 interest ratep by ill IJagasl.
494 IJ5fl.0Iton of fresh 4,0s1  PIloadd  aod 050  .2:1to  of aeboil, ltd  1`991 on4.
St'gp.: SM.1 ECsualtaIis. hasb iss.i.



TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Fund Fle Statemnt
(in thousand c atent arch 31, 190IN NOt)
LA PALONA
1Ql5      1Q88      1987      198i      1989      1990      191       I12       1993      1994      199i      1996      1997      199I      1999      2000       2001
1. SntsrnIa Cash COnration
Not Operation Revenues    (168,052) (170,874) (126.107) (143,680) (143.550) (143,850) (127.400) (127,400)  (82.976)  (43,716)  (24.216)  (24.?16)  (10.776)  (11.276)  (11,776)   12,660    16,000
Dstrsciatien               111,000   111.000   111.000   11-,000   111,000   111.000   111.000   111,000   153.S76   15S.576   153.576   153,576   153,575   153,5?6   153,576   153,576   153,576
Sub-Total                  (57,052)  (59,874)  (15,167)  (32,550)  (32,550)  (32,550)  (16,400)  (16,400)   90,600   109,S60   129360   12O8.60   142,i00   142,300   141,800   166,236   169,576
2. Borrowings
World Sank                                                          60,000   461,600   450,000   355.000   105.000    46,400
Japan Import Export Eank                                            40,000   322,300   312,200   250,200    79,200    40,200
3. D. ers -en worklng capital
4. Oovernaent Financial
Assistsne.                  57,052    59,074    15,16t   32,550   104,650   573,609   B72,115   614,666   359.644   273,504   203,947   191,054   163,622  150,930   137,239    60,113        3,654
Total Sources                    0         0         0         0   172,100 1,324,959 1,417,915 1.203,466   634.644   469,964   333,307   319,914   306,622   293,230   279,039   228,349   173.230
USES
5. Investments
Project                                                            160,000 1,282,400 1,245,300   987,300   313,S00   148,400
Other
S. Debt Sevice Charges
World Bank                                                     0    11,000    31,501    62,8S3    97,S91   107,633   109,694   101,127    91,559    82,091    72,523    62,355    53,486    48,816
Japan Import Export                                                  1,100    11.0586   26,980    39.035    48,971    43,330    89,515   35,690    31,866    28.042    24,019    20.195    16,371       0
REPAYM5TS
World Bank                                                                                                            99,000   123,125   123,125   123,125   123,125   123,125   123,125   123,123
Japan laport Export                                                                     52,600    69,540    69,540    69,540    69,540    69,540    69,540    69,540    69,540    69,540    69,540
Sub-Total                        0         0         0         0   172,100 1,324,959 1,307.915 1,193,4'6   534,644   469,964   333,307   319,914   306,622   293,230   279,039   266,346   252,634
7. Cosh
At beginning of year                                           0         0         0         0    30,000    40,000   140,000   140,000   140,000   140,000   140,000   140,000   140,000   100,003
At end of year (1)                                             0         0         0   30,000    40,000   140.000   140,000   140,000   140.000   140,000   140.000   140,000   100.003    20,379
Yearly change in Cash                                          0         0         0    30,000    10.000   100,000         0         0         0          0         0         0   (39,997)  (79,824)
------- - -------------------------------- _  _ ___ ------------------ ___  ----------------     _ __--------------------------------------------------__ --_ -________- _____-- __- __-- __-- __- __ - __-- __-__-- __--_- _--__--__-_ -_ -_-_-__-__-_--_ _-
m 



IJY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,
URSWAY
'RANSPFrT PROJW1 I
Incom Statossnt 1968-2004
(In Thosasnd Constant March 31. 1988 NI)
Piriapolis
1967     1966      196      1990    II        1992      193      1994      1"s      199       1997     1996      19"      2000      2001     20D2      2003     2004
Moring                                                                              SS,V75    710ooo    76.100   7e,100   7o,100   78.100  8s.oo    65.900    85,900   865.900  103.100  10,100
XSatvla                                                                              2,900    3,575    5,s325    5,35    5.325    5.325    5.325    s.325    5,325    5,s25    5.35           6s.25
other                                                                                 425       425       425      425      425      1600       475      475       475      1600      475      475
hbtotm                     1,002    1.000    1,000    1,000    1.0o0       I.=    59,000   75,000   s3.s50   ss,s60   83.650   85,025   91.700   91,700   91,700    92.62S  106.900  103.900
s. Operating
Pas rmam                  10.286    9.80    6,800   86000    7.500    7s500    8.000    8,50            9.000    9.000    9,000    9,000   10.000   10,000   10.000   11.000   11.000   11,000
Obterial sod Supples         5m        S0        5o       sc0    1,000    1.000    1.300    1,300    2,000    2.000    2,000    2,000    2.000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2.000    2,200
"IOG Cst                 10,614   10,000    9,300    6800    6,650        S6500    9,300    9.sc      11.000   11.000   11,000   11.000   12.000   12.000   12,000   13 000   13.000   13.200
Owr.cistion                16,100   16.100   16,100   16,100   16,100   16,100   16,100   16.100   40,340   40.340   40,340   40,340   40.340   40.340   40,340   40,340   40,340   40.30
operating Cook             28,914   26,100   25.400   24,600   24.600   24.800   25.400   25,900   51,340    51,340   51,340    51,340   52.340   52.340   52,340   53.340   63.340   53.50
S. NOa o          Renveue/    (25.014)  (25.100)  (24,400)  (25,800)  (23,400)  (2,6000)  3s.,00    49.100   32.510   32,510   32,510   33.663   39.380   39,360   39,360   39,485   55,560        5.5
La".
4. f0wo-OPoralag  aom.:
PotI shar. of inoreed                                              6s5,600 S5,600   ss,600    72,30    72,300   72,300   72300   72.300   72,300
la< Volvo (fmra
nlelWpl ity)
Loroing of OM land to                                                                        60 000   50,000   s0,000   50.000   50,000   es.000   6s.000   65,000   W500          65,000 e5.000
e<_lrnl rae
S. Iteret Chafe"                                           22.60   69.070  116,554  133,210   1433S3o   138,570   129,340   120,040   110,740  101,440    92,140    79,840   71.750   63.660   50.6o
6.  s$a Ravuwe/m Lome)       (25,914)  (25.100) (24,400)  (46,490) (92,470) (142.134)  (99,610)  (44,250) (56,060)   8.770    6 ,070   28,545    75.220   64,520   96s,20   105,035   129,200   141,960
at; tig Ratio              1,061       90       850       6         50         0       1s        13        13       13        13       13        13       IS        13       14        13        13
Operating Ratio            2.690    2,480    2,460    2,460    2,440    2,460          43        35       61 ,      1         el       60        57       57        57       49        49        49
hare.: CM, Canmultat
an Sank Nialgon
Otober IS
0. 



IRDJAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
UWAY                                                                     00 X 
TRAN06  PROJEC I
Funds Flow Statean 
(Itn Thusand Constant Msrch 31, 1988 NS)
PIRISAPOS
low      19U8     1989      1940      1991    193 199S           :.994    1998          1908 197      1998      1999     2000      2001     2002     2005      2004
iternl cmA   en1ereton:
-Mt operating revenue        (28.914)  (25,100)  (24,400)  (23.600)  (2.600)  (23.600)  33,600   49,100   32.510   32,510   32.510   33,688   39.360   39.360   39.360   39,488   58.860   85.66
Rem ery of appreiatioln                                                                                           U,600   55s600   55,600    72300    n3o    72,30c   72,300   72,300   72,S00
-Mt l"eaing                                                                                    50,000   S0,0      80.000   80,000   50.000 s5.000 0      ,o000   65,000   65,000   68,000   65.000
-Deprecl.aton                16.100   1,.100   16.100   16,100   16,100   16.100   16.00   16,100   40,340   40,340   40.340   40.340   40.340   40,340   40,340   40,340   40.340   40,340
SIubtotal                   (9.614)  (9,000)  (8.300)  (7,800)  (7,500)  (7.500)  49.700  115,200  122.850  178,450  178,450  179,625  217,000  217.000  217,000  217,125  233,200  233,200
llrroalngst
-1111111D                                                38aseo  259,250  259,260  259.260  129. 30
-_eW  El- Sunl                                           316.840  211.028  211,025   211,025  105.510
-Om. flnwselal ctrnb4inbtlo   9,814    9,000    8.300  340,96t0  23.288  383,110  341,866  202.351  194,085  129,2s5  129,255  109.480   62.605   53,508   4e,205
Toal Sourcaa                     9,614    9.000    8.300 1.046,390  763,570  853,395  611.851  437,401  194.085  129.255  129,255  109,460   62.05   83,505   46,205              0        0         0
APPLCATISI
-Invesent. s,-reetaater.                                 986,000  857,000  657.000  657.000  329,000
olh, eartI rao. a paving
Doat servlce charge:
IntArest (tIM A E8is Sunk)                               22.890   69,070  11.5W8    133.210  143,350  *W8.570  129s 40  120,040  110.740  1ol,440   92,140   79,640   71,750   63,660   50.seo
Repayent (tsRD * E    u ftnk)                                              70.341   70,341   70,341  i,8.365  178,365  178,3rs  176,365   178,365  178,365  178,365  178,365  178,365  178.365
Total Application                    0         0        0 1.006,690  7.070   45.891  6860.551  842,691  316,935  307,705  298.415  289,105  279,805  270,505  258.205  250,115  242.025  229,245
CA  et b*emInnIn  of year                                             30,000   60,000   e0.000   60,000   70,000   70,000   70.000   80,000   80,000  1OO,OO  100,000  105.000   72 010   63.185
Cad et and of year                                           30,000   60,000   60,000   80,000   7C,000   70,000   70.000   80,000   80.000  100,000  100.000  105.000   72.010   63,185   67,140
Yearly dlng  in cash                 0        0         0   30,000    .O0O0        0        0   10.000         0        0   10,000         0   20,000         0    5.000  (32.990)  (8.825)   5,955
rars:t OM. Consul tant
end Snk Mission
Octtobr 168
4"1-



- 87 -                     ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 6
A. Majior Assumptions and Notes for the
Financial Forecast for ANP
1.        The major assumptions used in the financial forecast were:
(i)  Currency Value and Exchange Rate
2.        The forecast  was  prepared  in  March  1988  constant  N$, and the
exchange rate used was US$1=316 N$. The forecast period is 1987 to 1995.
(ii) Traffic, Tariff and Revenues
3.        The traffic projections were made by the consultants INTECSA during
the preparation of the Master Plan for  ANP.   This forecast uses 19a5 as the
base year, and from then onwards the same growth rate assumed by INTECSA.
4.        Tariff increases were assumed only  for berthing and port dues (for
use of port) at  10?  annually  during  1988-1992  period.    If ANP finds it
difficult to apply the increase in any one year then tariffs for other items
such as towing or export cargo could be increased to obtain the same overall
increase in revenues. A 12 annual increase was assumed for other services.
These increases are justified due to their present low levels. Regarding the
number of ships and the gross registered tons, no variations were anticipated
in the forecast period from  1987  onwards.    For towing, no variations were
fo.ecasted. The export and transit traffic tariffs were used based on
experience between June 1986 and March 1987 (US$11.14/ton for exports and
US$6.8/ton for transit  traffic).    Similarly,  for  use  of warehouses, the
revenue of US$1.02/ton handled was used (excluding container traffic).
Storage for containers was assumed at US$19.25/container, based on previous
records (October 1986 to  March  1987).    For  handling  of empty and loaded
containers a price of  US$34.67/container  was  used.   Tariff for imports at
US$24.39/ton was taken from a sample of June 1986 - March 1987 tariffs.
Special tariffs for fishing vessels, services to ships, use of equipment,
private berths, container handling etc. were obtained from the tariff
schedule and the average revenue during June 1986 and March 1987. For
interior ports the average revenue during October 1986 to March 1987 was
used.   The  refrigerated  storage  revenues  were  calculated  assuming full
capacity utilization of the cold storage areas from 1988.
(iii) Operating Costs
5.        The following assumptions were  used  to calculate staff reductions
at ANP.
- Staff reduction of about 232 by 1,117 (the total staff as of
October 31, 1987 was 4,860) during 1989-1993 through attrition.
Only staff over 60 years were considered for retirement so that
their income was nos drastically reduced.
- Since more than 1,117 people should be reduced, ANP could carry out
a detail study in order to determine how many more could be reduced
and by what method. The pyramid of the ages of ANP employees in
May/June 1987 was as follows:



-88-                       ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 6
AGES                                     z of
(Years)                  No.            Total
25 and under            299              6.22
26 - 35                1066             22.1Z
36 - 45                1012             ?1.OZ
46 - 55                1259             26.1?
56 - 65                1050             21.8?
Total Staff   4,686
About 50Z of the staff is over 45 years of age and 222 is between ages 56-G5.
6.        The calculation of staff cost was based on:
- reduction of 1,117 staff between 1989-1993.
- reduction of overtime cost by 252 in 1989 and 502 in 1990. On
average, overtime hours in the months of April to June 1987 were
133.000, equivalent to 834  employees.   This would represent about
2,600 workers in one year.
- Transfer of dredging eouiipment personnel (including its maintenance
crew) to some other entity, private or public (see para. 12).
- Salary increases in real term of 3? in 1990 and in 1992 to provide
incentives to the remaining employees.
- The staff costs include all other personnel costs to be incurred,
such as pension benefits, which ANP is forced to pay up to the
retirement at age 70 (beyond which Seguro Social pays).
7.        Material  and  other  costs  have  been  estimated  based  on  past
experience. Traffic growth is modest and does not warrant increases in
material costs, therefore, 1986 costs were adjusted to March 31, 1988 and
used in the forecast.
Depreciation
8.        The overall depreciation rate for fixed assets was taken as 1.6Z on
gross revalued assets. Depreciation on dredging equipment has been excluded
in the forecast as these assets should be transferred to some other entity.
Investments
9.        Total investments assumed are  only  those of the proposed project.
The forecast also includes US$0.5 million annually for replacement of fixed
assets.
Borrowing Terms and Conditions
10.       The following  borrowing  conditions  were  used  for  IBRD and JEX
(Japan) loans:



- 89 -                     ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 6
(i) IBRD - Duration of the Loan 17 years 1
- Grace period            5 years
- Interest rate           standard variable
rates (7.59Z at present)
- Service charges         0.75Z on undisbursed balance
(ii) Eximbank (Japan)
- Duration of Loan       17 years
- Grace period            2 years
- Interest rate           5.5Z
Dredging
12.       It was assumed that all  dredging  equipment and related staff will
be transferred to DNH or any other public or private entity. The new entity
will pay ANP costs annually equivalent to debt service charges on dredging
equipment. ANPf! will hire dredging services at an international price of
US$2.00/cubic meter (this may have to be increased somewhat to cover
transportation cost of dredged mud for about 5 to 7 miles away for dumping).
INTECSA consultants have estimated that ANP needs 3 million cubic meters of
dredging annually at a cost of US$6.0 million. This cost is included in the
forecast.
B. Major Assumptions and Notes for Financial Forecast
For Small Craft and Fishing Ports
S$)   Currency Value and Exchange Rate
1.        The forecast  was  prepared  in  March  1988  constant  NS, and the
exchange rate used was US$1 = N$  316.   The forecast period was 1988 to 2000
for Punta del Este and La  Paloma  and  1988 to 2004 for Piriapolis.  Average
exchange rates used were:
1982           US$1         =        N$       13.93
83                                          34.55
84                                          56.11
85                                         101.47
86                                         152.02
87                                         226.77
88 Avge. Jan-April/88                      287.53
(ii) Investment Plan
2.        The following investments were used:
1/    Although  the  duration  of  the  IBRD  loan has since been
reduced to 15 years, the effects would be minor and the tables
have not been revised to reflect them.



- 90 -                     ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 6
Punta del Este      La Paloma        Piriapolis
Total  Foreign   Total  Foreign  Total Foreign
Base Cost US$ million       2.5    1.2       12.4    7.4        9.4    6.2
(incl. soc. benefits and
taxes, IVA)
Physical Contingency        0.4    0.2         1.2    0.7       0.9    0.6
2.9    1.4       13.6    8.1      10.3    6.8
.=  ==           == =    ===      _=       _
(iii) Borrowing Terms and Conditions
3.        The following terms were used:
IBRD             Eximbank (Japan)
Pay back period                      17 years  2           17 years
Grace period                          5 years               2 years
Interest rate                        7.72?                 5.5Z
Service charge                       0.752 on undisbursed   -
amounts
(iv)   Traffic, Tariffs an Revenues
4.        INYPSA consultants' traffic projections  at  Punta del Este were as
follows:
1986 actual                 44 ships                    3,221 GTR
87
88 forecast               49 ships                    3,670 GTR
89                        49 ships                    3,670 GTR
90                        49 ships                    3,670 GTR
91                        49 ships                    3,670 GT!.
92                        49 ships                    3,670 GTR
93                        55 ships                    4,500 GTR
98                        60 ships                    5,400 GTR
5.        Details are shown in INYPSA  report,  Annex 12, para. 2.3.2.1 (also
Chapter 3, paras. 3.7.3.8.2, 5.2.2). Five sets of tariffs were used:
(a)  GTR and days of stay.
(b)  Ship length and days of stay.
(c)  Monthly tariffs for fishing boats based in the port (which will not
be charged the above tariffs).
(d)  Tariffs per ton of fresh fish and anchoita unloaded.
(e)  Tariffs per loading and unloading frozen products and animal food.
These tariffs would cover total port operating costs and depreciation on
assets. All other services such as towing, cleaning and water supply would
be paid in full. Tariff increases are assumed at 10? in real terms in 1991
(first year of operation of new project) and 10? every four years thereafter.
21    See footnote on previous page.



-91 -                      ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 5 of 6
6.       In La Paloma, no tariffs have been charged until now, therefore, the
suggested tariffs are:
(a)  Tariff MI (port use) - Same as  in  ANP (i.e. based on GRT an every
24 hours of stay or part of it US$0.9/100 GRT and day).
(b)  Tariff M2 (Moving -  General  Cargo)  - US$1.00/metership length an
day moving for fishing vessels:
- refrigerated ships                   US$600/month
- high sea boats                       US$500/month
- small vessels (short distance)       US$300/month
- cabotage (6,7 crews)                 US$150/month
- smallest boats                           free
(c)  Tariff M3 (unloading fresh fish)
- Fresh catch for humin use            US$ 2.5/ton
(about 1Z fish value FOB)
- Anchoita for animal use              US$ 0.4/ton
(about 12 of fish value sold)
(d)  Tariff M4 (loading, unloading on the port facility)
- Frozen fish                          US$ 4/ton
- Powdered fish                        US$1.2/ton
- Fish oil                             US$1.5/ton
A 102 tariff increase was assumed in 1997 and in 2000.
7.        Concerning Piriapolis the port capacity is considered as:
- Berthing                           112 boats
- Mooring                             21 boats
- Storage and repair yard            120 boats
- Fishing vessels                       5 boats
- Average length of boat              11.2 meters
The demand is estimated to be 218 to 432 boats during 1991 to 2000 and 437
boats in the year 2000. The tariff for Pitiapolis is taken as 902 of rates
used in Punta del Este.   Real  term  tariff increases were assumed as 102 in
1995 and in 1999  and  202  in  2003.    Also,  the revenues from recovery of
appreciation of land and net leasing were increased by 302 in 1999. It is
assumed that Piriapolis should  start  earning  revenues  from 1993.  Average
berthing of boats was assumed to be 30 days. Visitors to Piriapolis were
assumed as:
- Numbers                            400
- Days per year                        60
- Average cost US$ per day         12.48
The revenues for water and electricity supply were calculated using same
rates as of supply companies and are similar to rates in Punta del Este.



- 92 -                     ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 6 of 6
(v) Operating Costs
8.        La Paloma - presently there are 10  employees at the port and 12 in
the dredging operation. Dredging staff would be eliminated since no dredging
would be required  after  the  breakwater  is  constructed.    The port would
increase its staff strongth from 10 employees to 12.
9.        The wage increase in real term  was  assumed  to be 32 in the years
1991, 1994 and 1997. Material and supplies for 1988 were estimated to be the
same as in 1987, adjusted by  inflation.   From 1990 onwards, the consultants
estimated N$ 5.0 million pesos p.a.
10.       Punta del Este - Presently,  34  regular and 23 temporary staff are
engaged.  In the future, 40 permanent  and 28 temporary (or 7 equivalent full
time) staff are assumed. Material and supplies cost are estimated based on
past experience.
11.       Piriapolis - The average operating  costs  of this port are assumed
same as Pta. del Este (about N$112,500) per year including embarkation in
water (berthing and mooring). Number of employees taken as 5.
(vi) Depreciation
12.       For La Paloma the historical value of assets of US$17.5 million was
used and asset life assumed as 50 years (17.5 million - 50 years = US$350,000
or N$111,000,000). The depreciation was adjusted upward to N$153.5 million
to include the new investments.
13.       For Punta del  Este,  the  historical  value  of  assets of US$14.1
million was used and asset life assumed at 100 years. The new depreciation
was calculated at N$57 million starting in 1991.
14.       For Piriapolis, the depreciation on the breakwater and the dike are
taken on 33Z of the capital because the regular annual repairs are charged to
expense.   Only  major  repairs  (e.g.,  due  to  stoLms)  are  assumed to be
capitalized and therefore depreciated.   The  existing assets were assumed to
have 50 years of life and 502 of depreciation was allocated to the existing
breakwater. From proposed investment, 671 is for the breakwater and the
dike. Therefore 33Z of the breakwater portion (i.e. 2/3 of total it.vestment)
was used for depreciation with 75 years life expectancy.



- 93 -                          AINNEX 5
Pege 1 of 3
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
RLview of the Transport Sector Expenditure Program
A. Overview
(a) The Revised 1987-89 Transport Program
1.       The revised  1967-89  transport  sector  program  of  about US$317
million (Table 1 of this Annex), agreed with OPP in March 1988, would
exceed the original limit set by OPP in 1987 by about 301. The difference
is due mostly to increased allocations to DNV which has demonstrated a
slightly higher implementation capacity than was originally estimated. The
overall size of the transport program, about 1.5Z of GDP and 30X of total
public sector investments, is appropriate considering the past neglect of
infrastructure and current needs.    The  relative amounts allocated to the
various modes also generally correctly reflect their economic role and
needs: about 74' of the the  total  is  for highways, 15? for ports, 7? for
railways and 3X for the National Directorate of Transport to over sea
transport operations and regulations.   Tihe  programs are based in the case
of roads, on carefully analyzed economic feasibility studies and priority
ranking, and, in the case of ANP and AFE, on consultant master plan
studies.
The program for small craft and fishing ports, however, includes several
investments such as those proposed for Puerto Viejo de Colonia, the
Atlantida Port and for the purchase of a dredger for which economic
justification has not yet  been  established.   The National Directorate of
Hydrography (DNH) intends to update or carry out economic feasibility
studies for these investments and implement them only if they demonstrate
adequate economic returns (not less than 12?).
2.       Implementation of the  1987-89  transport  program  has been slow,
reaching only about 50? of the  target  for 1987 due mostly to insufficient
implementation capacity in DNH, ANP and PLUNA, but also to uncertainties
about the future role and direction of ANP and AFE. Only DNV slightly
exceeded its  program.    Except  for  DNV,  not  much  improvement  in the
implementation rate is expected until 1989 when the future of ANP and AFE
would have been clearly decided.
(b)  MTOP's Transport Sector Proposals for 1989-92
3.       The  transport  agencies   are   currently  preparing  expenditure
proposals for 1988-1992 (Tables 2 through 4 of this Annex) which call for
some 700 million over the period or an average of USD140 million p.a.,
which would be some 32? above OPP's currently approved yearly averages for
1987-89. The relative distribution among agencies/subsectors remains the
same as in the  1987-89  which  is  acceptable.    The size of the proposed
program may, however, exceed the implementation capacity of all the
agencies as well as Government's financial capacity and would need to be
carefully studied by the office of Planning and Budgeting (OPP).



94 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
4.       The  following  are  the   mission's   specific  comments  on  the
individual modal programs:
(i) DNV's Road Program (Table  2):    is  in  line with needs, is
balanced with respect to construction vs. maintenance (about
532 for maintenance and 47? for construction) and comprises
projects demonstrated to be economically justifiable. The
program's size, about an average of US$102 million a year
may, however, be beyond DNV's implementation capacity. This
point should be examined during OPP's review.
(ii) ANP Montevideo Port Program (Table 3): is based on the
recommendations from consultants INTECSA's Montevideo Master
Plan Studies, is limited to investmencs to be financed by the
proposed Transport Project I, include only economically
justifiable projects with very high economic returns an..; is
within the OPP-approved annual  ceilings  for ANP.  The major
investments contemplated include:  construction  of a closing
dike (US$3.0 million, ERR  =  76Z), remodeling of the general
cargo terminal (US$2.9 million), remodeling of the perishable
goods  terminal  (US$1.2   million),   supply  of  additional
electrical power  and  container  handling  equipment (US$4.3
million) and a technical assistance and staff training
program (US$2.6 million).    Should  the Government decide to
cut the transport      sector expenditures, the ANP component
should be left intact because of (a) its high returns and (b)
the crucial need for the investments in order to transform
ANP into a profitable commercially-viable entity.
(iii) DNH's Program (Table 4): DNH's proposed program of US$71.4
million includes eight major items plus an unallocated amount
of US$32 million of which only the expansion of Punta del
Este,  Piriapolis  and   the   La   Paloma  ports  have  been
demonstrated to be economically justifiable (see para. 1 of
this annex). DNH intends to revise existing studies for some
of the items and initiate new ones for the rest.
(iv) AFE's Program (Table 6): AFE's proposal of US$46 million is
likely to be reduced to about US$37 million due to the
slippages in the 1987 and 1988 programs. The US$37 million
would be in line with the annual figures approved by OPP for
the 1987-89 period.
(v) PLUNA's Program: PLUNA h:-s not yet prepared a program for
1988-92.   Given  its  slow  rate  of  implementation  of the
1987-89 program, which started only in 1988, it is unlikely
that it would invest more than US$7 million during 1988-92.
B. Institutional Arrangements for Public Expenditure Management
5.       OPP is responsible  for  the  overall  management of public sector
investments including coordinating in:estments, monitoring implementation
progress and reviewing updated investment programs during implementation.
The sectoral ministries are responsible for developing sectoral policies to



- 95 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
guide the .lvestment priorities of their agencies. Specifically for the
transport sector, MTOP has established a planning nucleus within the
ministry, with the tec!nical support of it.3 Assesoria de Evaluacion
Tecnico- Economica (AETE), to formulate the investment guidelines for the
agencies and to review and integrate their proposals. A representative of
OPP participates in the  work  of  the  nucleus.   Each transport agency or
directorate is expected to have an investment planning unit to develop its
proposal. In practice only DNV has this unit. The rest have used some ad
hoc consultant's assistance to develop their investment programs, which is
a good first step, but they need to develop the in house capacity for
continuous program updating. The proposed project would provide technical
assistance to strengthen planning units ano train staff in DNV, ANr, DNH as
well as at the  level  of  HTOP.    In  tne  meantime  AETE, which has some
experienced staff, would be given a broader role in assisting ANP, AFE and
DNH and in integrating  the  agencies'  proposals.   AETE would require the
addition of two or three experienced economists/planners to fulfill such a
role adequately.
C. Funding of the 1989-92 Transport Program
6.       Financing for the proposed 1988-92 public sector transport program
is expected to be from the following sources: FIHTOP (43Z); international
and bilateral agencies such as t:e Bank, IDB, Japan Exim Bank and PNUD
(282); the Treasury (28Z); and FONPLATA (insignificant). The commitments
from the IDB, and PNUD have  a'ready  been secured while that from the Bank
and the Japan Exim bank would be funded through the proposed project. Less
certain are the resources from FIMTOP and the treasury which would need to
be confirmed based upon the existing expenditure ceilings on public sector
spending agreed with the IHF.
October 1988



URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Public Transport Sector Expenditures
(US$ Million)
Proposed
Updated Program                               Five - Year Program
AGENCY                 (OPP-Approved)                                      (1988 - 92)
Total                                                        Total
Year    1987     1988     1989  (1987-89)          1988     1989     1990     1991     1992  (1988-92
MTOP
____________
DNV              79.1     75.1     82.9    237.1 *          90.7    139.0    107.9     99.8    103.6    541.0
DNH               6.8     13.9     18.3     39.0 *           9.8     12.4     13.0     13.0      13.0     61.2
DNT               2.3      3,6      3.1      9.0 *           3.1      3.1      4.8       6.2      7.0     24.2
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
__________________
ANP               2.0      2.0      3.0       7.0            2.0      4.0      6.0       5.0      l.5     18.5
AFE               2.0     10.0     10.0     22.0             2.0      8.7      9.7       9.8      '.1     37.3
PLUNA               --      3.0        -      3.0             3.0       --      2.0       --       2.0      7.0
TOTALS            92.2    107.6    117.3    317.1           110.6    167.2    143.4    133.8    134.2    689.2
* Assumed Distribution
Source: MTOP and mission
May 1988
-m x



URUGUAT
TRANSPORT PRoJeCT I
ROad KXsenditurem  and Thetr Fuannctug
((   to of Usl at currnnt pricae)
Il          lm           -                         u          tIgo        199          I9'9        1191         29 193
T7tL E8MIS2m3 IN 111  W        E?IllI 7149                         69A          704.3       61.681      94.         109.30       133.03E     130.1        IIIRI       119.450      127.053
M.T.O,P. prl (YVITIP-1NTEIWIMS)                        71.149      63.695       70.213      61.681      9t '31       %6.,07      120.077     122.Q38      103.821     111.450      119.053
DIlE:IDI MC2IJNL BE VIALIDA                           61.444       48.790       I2.9h5      4?.13'       79.150     94. 9        110.077      ? 2rs       93.83:      101.450      109.0e3
D.N.V. IMESt1ENT                              31.600      20.700       20.400       15.362      26.0K       3A.418       43.501      51.'49       48.?50      43.474       51.953
ConstructiDn                             17.340       11.160      11.460       I0.052       9.157       6.936       24.022       30.507      29.174       21.896      t6.9?
Reconstruction                            7.225        4.650       4.775        3.19       ' 1.322      10.519       7.314        8.417       7.830        6.525       5. 
Bridm                                           2.100  1.0          .300        !.407       2.131        7.129       2.674        3.-         9.402        4.859       1.536
Other Investent Projects                  4.33         2.790       2.865         265        2.%69        5.834        .49         3.069 *     1.784 *    10.205  *   .9l0
D.N.V. 241NTE1E                               22.471      22.235       25.294      19.406       43.23S      S0.779       56.676      51 230       35.671      48.076       47.200
Baz.loq Plainte,nce                      11.460       11.340     1U.900         1.572      10.464        7.947      20.956       13.603      11.000 *     12.416 a    11.000
Periodic Mainteuntne                      4.775        4.725       5.375        6.5p"      17.498      25.252       23.303       22.281       7.635 1      8.500 *     7.500
Bridges                                   2.465        2i35        3.22r           (I         406       2.26        2661           700          700.         700.        700
Rtirne Maintenance                        3.371        3.335       3.704        2.309      24.870       15.316      1.Y17         4-70       16.336 *    26.46  *    21.500
D.N.V. AIm2NISTRA'IGI 92D8 EIPLOITaTIPE        7.373       5.855        6.231       7,37e        4.834       9.900        3.90o       3 50.         900  q.900  .0          9.90
Actual Administration                     7.373        5.355       6.231        7.-7C       9.834        3.900       3.3o        1/<00        3.300        9.90        9.900
INTlkS:VC~                                            10.505       14.905      18.298       13.543      15.431       18.583      t2.V1         Z.0;       :.000        18.000      18.000
I.T.O.P.-INTED4CIAS PRIA                      I0.505       14.905      18.263      IS.Y3        15.431       5.810       10.OOQ      10.000       i.0O         10.000      10.0
Plan de Intercowuaon Vial                10.505       14.Q05      18.289      ?q.43         '431        5.810            0           0                        0            0
Proarma de hntenialento                       I           0            0                                    0       10.000       o.y000      I0.000       10.000      10.000
IWTENIIAS PRO1i                                 WD          IUD          NID         Nit         N/t        12.771       12.%1        8.00C        8.0P0        8.000       e.m
Routine Maintenance and Construction                                                                    12.773      12.461 *      M.M00 0     8.000        8.000      89000
F2IISC1115:                                            M/D         I/D        70.213      ;l.6.8 ;        , e2    V1q.680      133.038     130.089      111.821     119.450      127.083
LOCW4                                                                  53.262       .739       62.452       74.1n7      '1.320       77.133      77.507       85.890       P.
F.lJl.T.o.r.                                                      53.261       46.7 "3     42.4t2      58.180       64.48t      53.859       69.603      84.19B       a3i
Treasury                                                               0           0            0      15.9?7       16.833      18.274        7.904        1.692       I.61
WtEll                                                                  16.952      20,832      3?9.130      35.573      51.71g       2.956       34.314       33.560      43.00
I.I.R.F.                                         1~~~~~~~~~~~~4.504  12.741  27.4*    20.708       29.M4       31t.159       7.B15
I.1A.F.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.94                                1973241 4
FItDA                                                              2194        2.92?        4.158      13.895       22.470      21 .796      26.498      32.40 t4|
254         224         482          979           0            0           0 l.5 48
asteigatilm.   1h       r       mr        ies.
mayurce,    T      ad.ana



ANNEX S
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
1 °S    g I- 
;                     1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- i    m*;  °
* ~    1    q u    -i 
I..                -
!~~~~
w~~
Z    a. p tE           *1
9!  K         S.f;



URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
ANP's Investment Program
(USSOOO)
Project Items                    Year      1988       1989       1990      1991       1992      Total (1988-1992)        Financing Source
1. Closing Dyke                                  -         267        1095      1684       t450             4496             18RD/EBJ/Treasury
2. Commercala  Wharfs                            -        2899        6696      7176       6452            23223             IBRD/EBJ/Treasury
Rehabilitation
3. Technical Assistance                          -         537        1198      1070        590             3395             IBRD/EBJ/Treasury
Total (1+2+3)                                 0        3703        8989      9930       8492            31114
S urce; MTOP and mib-on
May 1988
w "



tIUGtRMY
TRANlPT PROJECT I
Proposed Five-Tw investment Proarm for GMt I 19e0-19921
(US$lOO0)
It_es                                financing       1908       1989       1990        191         1992      TOTAL
745 - Research, Pre-lnvestment end Superwvlson Studies          FINTOP         221        160                                           381
147 -   lntenance of 0Om4 Lots                                  F104TOP         66                                                       66
749  BErth Extension of Nueva Patilrs                           fIttNTlP     2,212        590                                         2.802
751 - Rscue Equlpmnt                                            FlNT41P         30         30                                            60
155 - Car_elo Shipyard Equipmnt                                 f IItTOP       200        200                                           400
755 - Office Equipmnt                                           F  Y4GoP        26         18                                            44
156 - Iydrology for Port Developmet                            P.t.U.D.         1i         52                                           125
813 - Emfirking Equipmnt                                         FMIHOP         tlO       IOD                                           210
816 -Wharf and flood Preventlan at Sauce                         Ft4TOP         516       262                                           718
823 - Wrkshop at Carmelo Shipyard                               FINTOP         300       400         140                               840
824 - Port Area Extension at La Palone                           FiNTOP          15                                                       15
654 - Expansion of Basin at "iqueritas                           fIStF(P        120         73                                           194
836 - Bter Quality Control Equlpmnt                              FINtOP          95       120                                           215
830 - Brekwater at Colonla Port                                  f  tCPF               4*000                                          4.000
814 - BrEakwater at La Polol BIRf                                                       2.100       5.500       1.400                 7.000
815 - Extenslon of Breakwater at Pirlapotis                       BURF                  t 80C       5.400       1, 00                 9 000
817 - tboring Facillties at Fra; Bentos                          FltlOP         100       150         110                               360
819 - Dredging Equipmnt (800 a I                                 F IMYW      4.000                                                    4.000
822 - Dralnage System at Spanish Colony                          FiMtIP          36        30                                            66
825 - Expansion of kieew Paimlra                                 F11NT'P         50        90          50                                ISo
827 - Irrigation Wkors at San Jose                               Flt4TOP         (A        66                                            155
829 - Constructilon of Atiancida Port                            FlNTtw       1000 3OD 5S                                            4.000
851 - Pier Extension at Punta del Este                           BiRf          895        221                                         1.116
8S2 - Pier Extenslon at Rio Solis                                Fl"TNP          20                                                      20
853 - Docking Equlpmnt at laos Berreta                           F iNOP         210                                                     210
8a6 - lug (700 hp)                                               F INIP         600                                                     600
839 - bulidings at La Palom                                      FIH1o0          50         50                                           100
840 - Irrigation torks at Canelan Grande                         fi,AtFP        442                                                     442
842 - Administration Building at Punta del Este                  FIMIOP          70         20                                           90
860 - Administration Buiiding at Bluceo Port                     FHiNaP          60        25                                            F5
812 - Vehici. Purchases                                          FIMTOP         111                                                     Mii
815 - Reconstructicn of Wharf at Punta del Este                  BiRf                     975         525                             I.SOO
874 - Irrigation krlks at San Carlos                             FINtOP          44                                                      44
895 - Studies and Equlwnt for Underwater Research               fi`TW'P         20        20                                            40
891 -IL1s1- anq 1         n   lor lfyd;o'ic.  Research           F40P            20         20                                           40
n9D -      e wws eo  tupn    or  urvui enc-                      f tloolP       IOD         10                                           ISO
Unidentliled Works                                                                            5.275      11.800     15.000    32.075
TOTAL:                                         11.880    14.563      15.000      15.000      i3.O00    Z1.444
Source:  UTOP and mission                                                                     -
WtY 1988



URUGUAY
TRAAPORT PROJECT I
AFE's Investment fPrgram 419d8-20041
(USS 1000)
Source
Investment    of                                                                                                        Subtotal  Subtotal  TOTAL
Items          Total     financ.   1900  919f  1990  1991  1992  3995  1994  1995  1996  1997  3998  199  2000 2001  2002  2001 2004  81/92      93102    87/04
Track              47.72.4               4.5  5.0  5.4  5.6  4.7  5.0  4.7  4.9  2.8  2.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  25.3                    24.4     47.7
Or ups              4.62                       0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.5  0.5  O.S  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5   1.0                    5.0       4.6
Bulldings           1.02                       0.0        0.0                                      0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   0.0             1.0       1.0
Others              1.52                 0.1  0.3         0.3               0.3        0.3         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   1.0             0.°       3.3
Techniccl Assls.    0.62                 0.7  0.6  0.3                                                                                      '.'        0.0      '.5
Subtotal:      55.6                  5.5  6.5  6.0  4.1  5.0  5.4  5.2  3.2  4.5  2.9  0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9  0.Y  2b.8                    29.3     56.5
Ref. Alstos         8.64                 2.5  2.5  2.1  3.7                                                                                 8.6        0.0      8.6
GE LocOS.          15.61                                        5.2  5.2  5.2  0.0  0.0                                                     8.6        0.0      8.6
farroeus            0.01                                                                                                                    0.0        0.0      0.0
Recondit. wagons    5.02                 0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.3  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.0                                               1.5       1.5       5.0
NM wagons           2.51                                              0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.S  0.5   0.0                 2.5       2.5
R"condlt. Wagons    0.04                                                                                                                    0.0        0.0      0.0
NM Caachts          0.01                                                                                                                    0.0        0.0      0.o
Workshops           0.02                                                                                                                    0.0        0.0      0.0
Technical Assis.    0.02                 0.0  0.0                                                                                           0.0        0.0      0.0
Subtotal:      29.8                  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.0  5.  5.6  5.6  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  O.S  0.5   3.53                   14.4      29.8
Central Slgnals     0.01                                                                                                                    0.0        0.0       0.0
RadIo Signals       4.21                       0.5  1.0  1.0  0.5  0.5            0.5        0.2                                            5.0        1.2       4.2
Lowel Crossings     0.05                             0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0                                                           0.0        0.0       0.0
Twchalcal Au:'s.    0.12                 0.1                                                                                                0.3        0.0       0.1
Subtotal:       4.5                  0.1  0.5  1.0  1.0  0.5  O.S  0.0  O.'  0.0  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.b  0.0  0.0   531                     1.2       4.3
Administratlon      0.55                 0.5  0.0                                                                                            5.3       1.2       4.5
Programs            O.5                                                                                                                     0.0       0.0       0.0
lochnIcal Assla.    0.72                 O5  0.5  0.2                                                                                      0.7        0.0      0.1
Subtotal:       1.0                  0.6  0.5  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  5.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   1.0                     0.0       1.0
TOTAL:         90.0                  8.7  9.7  9.8  7.1  11.0  11.5  10.8  6.1  4.7  5.5  1.2  1.2    .2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  46.2                45.2     91.4
Source:   1TWP and missi on
§, 190                                                                                                                                                                       *13



- 102 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 15
UtUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
The Institutional Development Program
I. ROADS
A.   Technical Assistance to MTOP (Roads; see IIA for Ports)
Background:   The  Third  Highway  Project  (Ln 2238-UR) provided
funds to strengthen MTOP's  capabilities of transport planning, programming
and investment.    This  technical  assistance  is  aimed  at expanding and
improving these skills.
(i) Transportation Planning
Objectives:  The main  objective  of this technical assistance is
to provide MTOP with Consultant services to prepare and put into
operation a transportation planning model (TPM) and training
programa for management personnel.
Scope: To this end the services will:
(a)  introduce  modern   transportation   policy,   planning  and
budgeting procedures for the administration and planning of
the national intermodal transportation networks;
(b) assist in the preparation of a road user charges study;
(c) assist in the selection, procurement and operation of
computers and software suitable for transportation network
analysis and planning;
(d) prepare a manual for the operation of the TPM;
(e) prepare on-the-job training in intermodal trip assignment
models, transportation, inventories, traffic volume models
and economic analysis models;
(f) recommend organizational changes required for operation and
implementation of the TPM; and
(g)  assist MTOP in  the  preparation  of  a suitable program for
management training including seminars, fellowships and
special conferences.
Cost and Timing:
Consultants:  75 man-months US$4,000 plus taxes         US$363,000
Computer equipment and software                         US$ 10,000
Conferences and technical visits abroad 45xUS$2,000   US$ 90,000
Total                                                   US$463,000
The consultants would start work by July 1, 1989 and complete it
by December 31, 1991.



- 103 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 15
B.   Technical Assistance to DNV
Background:   The  Third  Highway  Project  (Ln 2238-UR) provided
funds for DNV to strengthen their capabilities in maintenance, and
equipment  management,  traffic  sa ety, highway  planning  and  soils and
materials investigation. This technical assistance is aimed at e"cpanding
and improving these skills.
(i) Highway Planning
Objectives: To provide DNV with consultant services to prepare
and put into operation a highway planning model (HPM)
Scope: To this end, the service will:
(a)  introduce  modern  highway   planning   procedures  for  the
administration and planning of the national highway network
and for the preparation of a rolling Five-Year Investment
and Maintenance Program;
(b) assist in the selection, procurement and operation of
computers and software suitable for highway network analysis
and planniag;
(c) prepare a manual for the operation of the HPM;
id)  prepare  on-the-job  training  in  trip  assignment  models,
highway inventories, traffic volume models and economic
analysis models;
(e) redefine primsry, secondary and tertiary network and levels
of investments for each network; and
(f) recommend organizational changes required for operation of
the HPM.
Cost and Timing:
Consultants: 24 man-months x US$4,000 plus taxes      US$116,000
Computer equipmcnt and software                       US$ 15,000
Training abroad: 15 man months x US$2,000              US$30,000
Total                                                 US$161,000
The consultants would start work by July 1, 1989 ar,d complete it
by December 31, 1990.
(ii) Soils and materials investigation
Objectives: To provide DNV with consultant services to expand
and improve the standardized test procedures, specifications,
analysis and quality controls for design, construction and
maintenance projects.



- 104 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 15
Scope: To this end, the service will:
(a)  introduce  modern  procedures  for  the  administration  and
planning of  the  central  and  field  lab  units to provide
adequate quality control for the project;
(b) assist in the selection, procurement and operation of lab
equipment and introduction of new testing procedures;
(c) prepare a manual for standardization oi test procedures,
materials specifications and quality control;
(d) prepare on-the-job training in test procedures and analysis;
and
(e) provide legal assistance to DNV to establish procedures for
the rejection of, or penalties for, works or materials which
test below the project specifications;
Cost and Timing:
Consultants: 24 man-months x US$4,000 plus taxes        US$116,000
Laboratory equipment                                    US$245,000
Survey equipment                                        US$120,000
Computer and Design equipment and software              US$118,000
Training abroad 32 man months x US$2,000                US$ 64,000
Total                                                   US$663,000
The consultar.ts would start work by July 1, 1989 and complete it
by June 30, 1990.
(iii)  Traffic Management
Objectives: To provide DNV with consultant services to assist
DNV in the improvement of its traffic management.
Scope: To thi end, the service will:
(a)  introduce  modern  traffic  management  procedures  for  the
administration and planning of a comprehensive traffic
operation program to improve the operation and safety of the
national highway system;
(b)  assist  in  the  selection,  procurement  and  operation  of
computers  and   software   suitable   for   collection  and
evaluation of traffic accident data and for management of
the national highway system;
(c) prepare a manual for the operation of traffic management;
(d) prepare on-the-job training in traffic management, data
collection and analysis; and
(e) recommend organizational changes required to improve traffic
management.



- 105 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 15
Cost and Timing:
Consultants: 6 man-months x US$4,000 plus taxes        USS 29,000
Vehicle axle load analysis equipment                    US$160,000
Computer for traffic accident data analysis            USS 10,000
Training abroad:  12 months x US$2,000                 US$ 24,000
Total                                                  US$223,000
The consultants would start work  by October 1, 1989 and complete
it by June 30, 1990.
(iv) Maintenance Management
Objectives: To provide assistance to DNV to prepare and put into
operation a maintenance management system (MMS).
Scope: To this end the services will:
(a) introduce modern maintenance management procedures for the
administration  and   planning   of   a   National  Highways
Maintenance Program;
(b) assist in the selection, procurement and operation of
computers and software suitable for management of the
National Highways Maintenance Program;
(c) prepare a manual for the operation of the MMS;
(d) prepare on-the-job training in maintenance procedures, data
collection and analysis, and the operation of the MKS; and
Cost and Timing:
Consultants: 24 man-months x US$2,800 plus taxes       US$ 82,000
Computer for districts and software                    US$ 45,000
Total                                                  US$127,000
The consultants would start work by July 1, 1989 and complete it
by June 30, 1990.
(v) Equipment Management
Objectives: To provide assistance to DNV to prepare and put into
operation an equipment management system (EMS).
Scope: To this end the service will:
(a) introduce modern equipment management procedures for the
administration and planning of equipment maintenance .snd
operation;
(b) assist in the selection, procurement and operation of
computers and software suitable for management of the
equipment fleet and workshops;



- 106 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 15
(c) prepare a manual for the operation of the EMS;
(d) prepare on-the-job training in equipment management data
collection and analysis and the operation of the EMS;
(e) recommend organizational changes required for operation of
the EMS;
(f) prepare a study based on comparative costs between private
and  public  equipment  maintenance   facilities  so  as  to
recommend management solutions and the distribution of
repair functions.
Cost and Timing:
Consultants: 36 man-months x 2,800 plus taxes   US$122,000
Computers and software                            US$ 18,000
Total                                             US$140,000
The consultants would start work  by January 1, 1990 and complete
it by December 31, 1991.
C.   Technical Assistance to DNV and Participating Departments.
Background:   The  Third  Highway  Project  (Ln 2238-UR) provided
funds for the execution of a feeder road rehabilitation and reconstruction
program that established a working relationship between DNV, which was the
supervision agency, and participating departments, which were the executors
of the National Feeder Rords  Program.   This technical assistance is aimed
at increasing the departments responsibility in maintenance of roads within
their departments with the cooperation of DNV and in reducing the costs of
financing duplicate functions for road maintenance in each department.
(i) Technology Transfer to Participating Departments
ObJectives:    To  provide  the  participating  departments  with
technical assistance and training to implement a transfer of
technology in highway maintenance and related areas.
Scope: To this end, the service will:
(a)  introduce   modern   management   procedures   for   highway
maintenance, equipment maintenance, and soils and materials
investigation and testing;
(b) prepare on-the-job training for engineers, technicians,
equipment operators and unskilled labor in (1) highway
maintenance, 2) equipment management, 3) soils and materials
testing, and 4) data collection and analysis;
(c) recommend organizational changes required to provide for the
implementation   and   execution   of   the   OGravel  Roads
Maintenance Program* in each participating department and
for supervision of the program by DNV.



- 107 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 15
Cost and Timing:
Consultant services for training departmental
instructors for highway maintenance and
equipment management in Montevideo:
60 man-months x US$1,500 plus taxes                      US$109,000
Instructors for training departmental personnel in
the departments: 82 man-months x US$2,000 plus taxes   US$198,000
Other training expenses                                  US$136,000
Subtotal Training of Departments                         US$443,000
Field inspection vehicles: 2 x US$24,000                 US$288,000
Laboratory equipment: 8 x US$15,000                      US$270,000
S_rvey equipment 18 x 20,000                             US$360,000
Computers and software 18 x 7,000 + 10,000               US$136,000
Subtotal Equipment                                     US$1,054,000
TOTAL                                            US$1,497,000
This program would be initiated by January 1, 1990 and completed
by June 30, 1993.
II. PORTS
A. Technical Assistance to Redefine the Government's Role at Small
Craft Ports and to Reorganize Dredging Activities
Background:   Small craft  ports and harbors are currently built,
administered and operated by MTOP, through DNH. The current situation has
proved to be satisfactory at Punta del Este, but requires further
consideration at other existing and future locations, as this may impose
undesirable constraints to private investments. The Action Plan includes a
revision of the existing policy through an analysis of the Government's
present monopolistic situation vis-a-vis the Government monitoring and
promoting tourism development with private sector participation, either as
developers  and  operators   or   as  concessionaries  of  Government-owned
facilities. The Port Action Plan also provides for the separation of
dredging  activities  from  ANP's  responsibilities.    Consultants  to  be
retained for the improvement of ANP's organization and functions would make
specific recommendations with regard to this activity. However, additional
technical assistance would also be required for the actual organization of
a separate  dredging  entity.    In  addition  to  the  above the technical
assistance would include the development and implementation of commercially
based general and cost accounting systems, a cost-based tariff structure
and a billing system for the small craft ports anl harbors that would
remain under DNH.
(i) Small Craft Ports
Oblectives: The main objective of this technical assistance component
is to analyze alternative arrangements to promote, develop and operate



- 108 -                         ANt1EX 6
Page 7 of 15
small craft ports and harbors to ensure their financial self-
sufficiency,  attract  private   investments  and  ensure  operational
efficiency.
Scope.   The  consultants  would  critically  analyse  the investments
undertaken by the Government to develop, maintain and operate existing
infrastructure; identify investments made that are not economically
and financially justified; identify potential participation of private
sector either in infrastructure development or in provision of public
services;  recommend  alternative   mechanisms   to   allow  for  such
participation; recommend actions required to transfer some of the
existing facilitips to the private sector on a concessionary bas:is and
to promote new wider participation of the private sector; and develop
and implement general and cost accounting systems for the main small
craft ports.
Cost and Timing:
Consultants: 4 man-months (foreign) x US$9,000 plus taxes  US$ 43,560
10 man-months (local) x US$3,000 plus taxes    US$ 36,300
Reimbursable expenses plus taxes                             US$ 20,140
US$100,000
The consultants would start work by April 1, 1989 and complete it
by December 31, 1989.
(ii) Organization of Dredging Activities
Objectives: The main objective of this technical assistance component
would be to separate dredging activities from ANP and establish a
commercially oriented enterprise to carry out all maintenance dredging
at national level and to recover the costs involved through users
charges.
Scope:  Phase 1  - Diagnostic.    The  consultants would carry out an
assessment of Uruguay maintenance dredging requirements and of the
existing dredging capabilities both in terms of dredging capacity,
taking into consideration the dredging plan for Montevideo prepared
under the Master Plan Study, and of remaining economic life of the
existing equipment plant.    The  consultants  would  also analyze the
technical skills of personnel assigned to this activity, outline a
dredging plan for the next 5 years, based on ongoing port and river
investment plans, evaluate alternative schemes to organize dredging
activities, and define required Government actions to implement each
of such alternatives. This phase is estimated to last about 8 weeks
after which the consultants would prepare an Inception Report.
Phase  2  -  Design  and  Implementation.       Upon  selection  by the
Government of the best alternative, the consultants would develop and
implement   the   proposed   structural   organization   of   the  new
commercially-oriented and financially self-sufficient dredging entity.
They would develop a detailed dredging program including required
investments, if any, to ensure that the dredging entity is capable of
implementing such dredging program with the existing dredging fleet or
identify the need to complement it with additional equipment or



- 109 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 15
dredging contractors.   The  consultants  would  carry  out on the job
training of managerial staff assigned to dredging activities within
the entity. This phase is estimated to last about 6 months after
which the consultants would submit a Draft Final Report, followed by a
Final Report incorporating the Government comments and observations.
Cost and Timing:
Consultants:  6 man-months (foreign) x US$9,000 plus taxes   US$65,340
8 man-months (local) x US$3,000 plus taxes       US$29,040
Reimbursable Expenses plus taxes                               US$26,620
Total                                                         US$121,000
The consultants would start on May 1, 1989 and complete the work
by December 31, 1989.
B. Technical Assistance to ANP
Background: ANP's organization is obsolete, functions are poorly
defined and include a number of activities not directly related to port
administration and operation. Little attention is paid to commercial and
operational  functions  necessary   to   achieve   financial  autonomy  and
operational efficiency. Port productivity at Montevideo, ranks among the
lowest in the region, despite the fact that the port is in general,
overdimensioned and overequipped for current and forecast traffic up to
1995. The reasons for the low productivity levels are complex, ranging
from  inappropriate  management  practices   coupled   with  lack  of  port
operations planning, lack of stevedoring and port labor coordination and
payment systems to workers that promote inefficiency, and poor attention to
commercial practices to educate and incentivate port users.
(i) Improvement to ANP's Organization and Functions
Objectives: The main objective of the technical assistance component
is to assist ANP in the definition, development and implementation of
a structural organization designed to transform it into a (state-
owned) commercial enterprise. To this effect, the consultants to be
retained would take, as the basis for their work, the port policies
and directives contained in the Action Plan, the traffic forecasts,
characteristics of the commercial port system and the recommendations
of the studies carried out under loan 1798-UR, as well as those
resulting from the organizational study being financed through loan
2238-UR. Their responsibilities would include recommendations for the
design  and  implementation  of  a   new  organization  for  ANP,  the
redefinition of functions and responsibilities  at all levels, and the
subsequent assignment of  the  necessary  human resources required for
activities directly related with  port  planning, administration, and
with commercial, financial and operational functions. The consultants
would make specific recommendations with regard to the transfer of all
other activities to third parties.
Scope: The work would be implementation oriented and include the
(a)  definition  of  an   organization   scheme   appropriate  to  the
activities that would remain under ANP's responsibility;



110 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 15
(b) definition of functions and responsibilities at all managerial
levels  and  the   interaction   among   the  various  ports  and
departments within ANP, as well as the coordination and links
with MTOP and other Government agencies; and
(c) development and implementation of the organizational scheme,
including preparation of corresponding manuals and procedures,
and on-the-job training at managerial levels.
Cost and Timing:
Consultants: 25 man-months (foreign) x US$9,000 plus taxes US$260,000
40 man-months (local) x US$3,000 plus taxes   US$145,000
Reimbursable expenses plus taxes               US$ 79,000
Total                                          US$484,000
The consultants would start work by March 1, 1989 and complete it
by June 30, 1990.
(ii) Marketing
Objectives:    ANP's  operation   needs   to   be  upgraded  based  on
commercially oriented criteria. An important element to enable ANP to
carry out business efficiently and profitably is the utilization of
proper marketing and commercial research in local and foreign markets
to define characteristics, clients' needs, competition factors, etc.
This would result in proper definition of marketing objectives and
strategies.
Scope: This technical assistance component would be addressed to
defining the size, structure and trends of current and potential
markets through marketing research, with the purpose of identifying
the level of demand and characteristics of competitive ports. Based
on the above the consultants would define objectives and marketing
strategies and evaluate the cost of improvement of services offered,
including alternative commercial incentives to attract additional
traffic. This technical assistance would include on-the-spot training
of marketing analysts and the development and implementation of
administrative systems of ANP's Commercial Department.
Cost and Timing:
Consultants:  4 man-months (foreign) x US$9,000 plus taxes   US$41,850
3 man-months (local) x US$3,000 plus taxes      US$10,890
Reimbursable Expenses plus taxes                               US$ 7,260
Total                                                         US$60,000
The consultants would start work by January 1, 1990 and r;omplete
it by June 30, 1990.
(iii)  Improvement to ANP's Port Operations
Objectivest The objectives of this technical assistance component
are:     to   increase   operational   productivity;  rationalize  the



- 111 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 15
utilization of existing infrastructure, equipment and human resources;
coordinate port services with users' needs and customs regulations;
simplify port documentations and develop appropriate cargo control
system.
Scope: To Achieve the foregoing objectives, the consultants' services
would be divided in the following phases:
Phase 1 - Diagnostic. analysis of present and forecast traffic
composition, cargo-handling systems and controls and of current
operational procedures; identification of major problems affecting
port operations with a view to define alternative Government and/or
ANP actions that may be required to solve them; identify improvements
that can be implemented immediately and prepare a plan of action for
that purpose; assess capabilities and skills of human resources at all
levels assigned to port operations including ANSE personnel. At the
end of this Phase which is expected to last six weeks, the consultants
would prepare an Inception Report including actions required and
details of works to be executed during the Phase 2 of the technical
assistance.
Phase 2 - Design.    Implementation  of  the immediate plan of action;
preparation of a plan for the rationalization of port operations,
personnel and equipment in specialized port areas; preparation of port
operations planning and regulations, procedures and manuals; analysis
of the viability of concessioning selected port services; development
and implementation of simplified port documentation; development of
port productivity monitoring systems and of a productivity based
compensation system for workers.   This  phase is estimated to last 12
weeks.  Upon its  completion,  the  consultants  shall submit a report
covering, among other things,  the  results  of  the immediate plan of
action and the operations rationalization plan.
Phase 3  -  Implementation.    Development  and  implementation of the
rationalization  plan,   including   manpower,   equipment,   and  the
monitoring systems and controls.   This  Phase is estimated to last 20
weeks, at the end of which the consultants will present a Draft Final
Report.
Phase 4 - Post Evaluation.   Six  months after completing Phase 3, the
consultants would asspss the results of this technical assistance
component and review and revise as necessary the system, controls and
practices used. This phase 4 is estimated to last about one month,
after  which  the   consultants   would   present   the  Final  Report
incorporating the Bank and ANP comments, an evaluation of results
obtained and the additional recommendations resulting from this final
phase.
Cost and Timing:
Consultants: 20 man-months (foreign) x US$9,000 plus taxes US$218,000
30 man-months (local) x US$3,000 plus taxes   US$109,000
Reimbursable expenses plus taxes                               US$ 36,000
US$363,000
The consultants would start work by July 1, 1989 and complete
Phase 3 by April 30, 1990, and Phase 4 by October 31, 1990.



- 112 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 11 of 15
(iv) Reorganization of ANP's Maintenance Services
Obiectives: This technical assistance component would be addressed to
reorganize port maintenance services in line with ANP's operational
and administrative services requirements, arising from the revised
functions and responsibilities, and to increase equipment availability
to  acceptable   international   levels   (i.e.,   80?   in  operating
conditions).
Scope:  to achieve the foregoing objectives, tle consultants' services
would be divided in the following phases:
Phase 1 - Diagnostic. Analysis of present plant of equipment and its
adequacy to cope with operational demands; development of a detailed
inventory of physical  conditions;    analysis  of  physical and human
resources  allocated   to   equipment   maintenance   and  other  port
maintenance; analysis of current organization of maintenance services;
identification  of  problems   and  bottlenecks  affecting  day-to-day
maintenance; and preparation of an immediate plan of action to remedy
such problems and bottlenecks. This phase is expected to last about 5
weeks after which the consultants will prepare an Inception Report,
including actions required and details of works to be executed during
the second phase.
Phase 2 - Design and Implementation of the Immediate Plan of Action:
Preparation of a plan for the rationalization of port maintenance,
including reorganization, accounting and costing systems, equipmeiit
utilization and inventory controls, budgetary requirements, training
needs and maintenance data systems.    The  plan will also include all
necessary manuals, regulations and monitoring systems. Simultaneously
with the preparation of this plan, the consultants will assist their
counterparts in the implementation of the plan of action. Phase 2 is
expected to last about 16 weeks upon which completion the consultants
shall submit a report with their recommendations and the results of
the plan of action.
Phase 3  -  Implementation:    Development  and  implementation of the
rationalization plan.  This phase is estimated to last about 20 weeks,
at the end of which the consultants shall submit a Draft Final Report
containing a detailed  analysis  of  results obtained and highlighting
problems still to be solved to ensure the achievement of the
objectives.
Phase 4 - Post evaluation:    Six  months after completion of Phase 3,
the consu.cants would carry out  a  critical assessment of results and
review, revise and implement all  necessary changes and adjustments to
ensure satisfactory results. This phase is expected to last about 4
weeks after which the consultants would present the Final Report
incorporating the Bank and ANP comments, the evaluation of results,
and any additional  recommendation  of  actions/decisions  that may be
required.
Consultants: 20 man-months (foreign) x US$9,000 plus taxes US$218,000
30 man-months (local) x US$3,000 plus taxes   US$109,000
Reimbursable expenses plus taxes                               US$ 36,000
Total                                                          US$363,000



- 113 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 12 of 15
The consultants would start work by March 1, 1989 and complete it
by December 31, 1989.
(v) Improvement to ANP's Port Financial and Management Information
Systems
Objectives: The first objective of this technical assistance is to
strengthen  internal  auditing   and   control,  long  term  strategic
financial planning, tariff restructuring based on realistic operating
costs, and management information. The technical assistance will also
include checking of the costing system recently established by
expatriate consultants to ensure that it is functioning well, as the
results of this system will become a reliable base for tariff setting.
Financial accounting and cost accaunting records would be fully
integrated to ensure accounting, costing and budgetary controls are
effective  and  reliable.    The  second  objective  would  consist of
improving the management information system so that it becomes a
management tool for somnd policy and decision making.
Scope: The consultants who will be engaged for these jobs will ensure
that methodologies and techniques introduced by them are modern,
compatible and practical for  ANP.    The consultants will ensure that
suitable counterparts are selected to be trained by them in different
functions. All procedural manuals will be well documented and left
with trained counterparts for their use in the future. Consultants
will keep in mind the concept of responsibility accounting for each
function so    that  financial  viability  of  ANP  remains always the
primary  objective.    The  consultants  will  design  the  management
information systems for all levels of management in formats suitable
for their needs and in various timing and details required by them.
The consultants will focus on the following main tasks:
(a) Costing System - Under the previous loan (1798-UR) a costing
system was designed  and  established  together with improvements
and  modified  categories   in   the   accounting  system.    The
counterpart team was trained and  the  manuals were written.  The
consultants  will  ensure  that  such  a  costing  system  is  in
operation   and   particularly    that   basic   procedures   are
computerized. The consultants will take all necessary actions to
eliminate problems and deficiencies still being experienced.
(b) Marginal Cost Concept - Once the consultants are satisfied with
the new costing system, they will strengthen it by introducing
the long run marginal  cost  concept.    The  unit costs for each
activity or cost center would then reflect marginal costs and
total costs to enable the port management to set adequate tariffs
considering costs and competition with neighboring ports. The
unit costs will be split into labor, material and other costs.
The consultants will also introduce a standard costing system to
help management control costs, rationalize various operations in
the port area and to strengthen the budgeting control system.
This  would  enable   management   to  evaluate  each  activity's
performance and introduce further improvements in cost control.



- 114 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 13 of 15
(c) Restructuring of Tariffs - The consultants will carefully examine
the existing tariff policy. In particular, they will ensure that
all disparities in the present policy are removed (such as higher
import than export  tariffs,  innappropriate  transit and fishing
vessel tariffs).  Tariffs  should  reflect the costs of efficient
operations.    They  should  make  specific  recommendations when
necessary.
(d) Internal Audit/Control - ANP's Internal Audit Unit is weak and
understaffed. Consultants will ensure that the Internal Audit
function becomes very effective and functions as a good liaison
between ANP's management and the external auditors. Consultants
will make recommendations and implement them as necessary. It
will be ensured that internal audit procedures are properly
written and the staff is adequately trained.
(e) Long-Term Strategic Investment and Financial Planning - Presently
no  long  term  strategic   financial  planning  exists  in  ANP.
Consultants will introduce a suitable investment and financial
planning system which should become a useful tool for the
management  to  make  sound   judgements  and  future  investment
decisions.   The  analytical  tools  and  methodology  to be used
should  be  based   on   the   latest  approach  and  techniques.
Consultants will train  the  counterparts  in  this area and will
write procedural manuals for their future use.
(f)  Mechanization of Information System  - Consultants will recommend
and install a suitable mechanized reporting system. They will
recommend ANP what type of computers and software to use. They
will establish a system of information flow and production of
prompt  and  reliable   statistical   operational  and  financial
reports.
(g) Management Information System - The consultants would strengthen
the existing information system.   They will establish sources of
each type of information to avoid duplications and conflicts,
design suitable formats of each type of report and computerize
their processing. The periodic reports will be for two levels of
management. One type of reports will be for top management which
would highlight main events in manpower, operations, traffic,
marketing, engineering and maintenance, planning, and finance and
budgeting. The purpose of the report would be to inform about
the  activities  as   well   as   to   alert  the  management  of
irregularities,  thus  enabl'.ng  them   for  their  major  policy
decisions and/or remedial  actions.    The  other type of reports
will be for  the  mid-managerial  and  supervisory levels.  These
reports will cover  more  details  of  the  activities under each
responsibility center. The accountability of each major job will
be clearly  identified.    The  periodic  reports  that should be
prepared would cover areas such as: tonnage handled by ships,
productivity per gang hour, ship waiting time, gangs employed,
revenues and costs, cash flow, traffic by categories, number of
machines in workshop, container terminal activities, and berth
occupancy.



- 115 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 14 of 15
Consultants will recommend and it.stall a suitable mechanized
reporting  syscem  that  will   include  suitable  computers  and
software. Tnis facility should enable ANP to pruduce useful
information promptly and accurately.
Cost and TiminR:
Consultants: 20 man-months (foreign) x US$9,000 plus taxes US$218,000
30 man-months (local) x US$3,000 plus taxes   US$109,000
Computer equipment and software                               US$300,000
Reimbursable costs plus taxes                           US$ 36,000
Total                                                         US$663,000
The consultants would start work by March 1, 1989 and complete it
by June 30, 1990.
C. ANP's Training Program
Background: The upgrading of ANP's training organization started
in 1987 through the s,ssistanice provided by UNDP-ILO, which established a
Training Center and iiitiated a  twoo-year  program aimed at improving a the
performance of approximately 1,400 employees. The proposed reorganization
of ANP contemplated ln the Action Plan would include the establishment of a
Training Steering Corimittee and the strengthening of the existing Training
Center, which should be directly responsible to the Deputy General Manager.
Training  activities  at  local  level  would  be  executed  using existing
training facilities and equipping them  properly through the proposed loan.
Agreement with UNDP and its agencies to review and expand the proposed
four-year training program, and to coordinate, administer and implement
such program, would be necessary in view of ANP's limited experience and
qualified personnel to  undertake  those  tasks.   Training of supervisors,
equipment operatore and port workers would be carried out in Montevideo
through courses and seminars. Training of top and mid-level managers would
be carried out through specialized courses and seminars in Montevideo and
abroad. Preparation of professionals in port administration and planning
would be achieved thxrough scholarship abroad.
Objectives. The project's port training component aims at:
(a) supporting ANP institutional reform and changes through the
establishment  of   a   Training   Steering   Committee  and  the
strengthening  of  the   existing   Training  Center  within  the
organizational structure of ANP; and
(b) strengthening the performance capabilities of ANP's personnel
from managerial levels, to professionals, administrative staff,
supervisors and port workers; and
(c) contributing to the achievement of port productivity targets.
Description: A four-year preliminary training program for the period
1989-1992 has been outlined (Tables 2 and 3 of this annex) in the
cortext of the Government and ANP's institutional reform and changes
of the port subsector contained in the corresponding Action Plan.
Under agreement with one or more technical assistance .nstitutions,



- 116 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 15 of 15
the Training Center would be strengthened to implement a truining
program aimed to improve the performance capabilities of about 2,700
employees, or 56l of ANP's present number of staff. The training
program would include courses and seminars in Uruguay and abroad,
attendance to specialized international conferences, scholarships,
study visits abroad, on-the-job training and training materials and
equipment.   In  addition,  the  training  program  would  include the
technical support required to develop and implement the program and
the improvement of ANP's Training Center.
Execution and  administration  of  the  Training  Program.   ANP would
remodel the necessary areas to improve training facilities and would
enter a contract with  one  or  more technical assistance institutions
for the administration and implementation of the training program.
Provisions  would  be  made  to  hire  foreign  specialists  and local
consultants to  train  ANP  instructors,  select  courses and seminars
abroad, organize local courses and seminars, select candidates for
scholarships, arrange  working  visits  to  selected  ports abroad and
provide all  required  training  material  and  equipment.  ANP would:
(i) establish a Training Committee to deal with training policies,
strategies and priorities; and .ii) strengthen Training Center in
terms s,atisfactory to the  Bank.    This  unit  would be the technical
assistance's counterpart and wauld be expanded as necessary during the
imple2entation of  the  program.    The  basic  cost  of  the training
component is estimated at US$1.1 million equivalent and details are
given in Table 3 of this annex.
October 1988



URUCUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Technical Assistance to UTOP and to the Hishway Subsector
Consultant Services. Training and Equiemnt Requirements
(in USSIOOO)
Training                            Equi pmnt
Consultant           In the   Computers                            Weighing
Technical Assistance for        Servies /a  Abroad  Country   Software  Laboratory  Surveying   Scales    Vehicles  Total
UTOP
Transportablon Planning            g8a          90                  10                                                    403
DNW
Highway Planning                    116         80                  1S                                                    181
So*ls and   aterials                118         84                 118       245          120                             eo3
Traffic Managoent                    29         24                  10                               160                  223
Maintenance Management               62                             45                                                    127
Equipment Managment                 122                             16                                                    140
Departments                           -                  443       138       270          36o                   288     1,497
Subtotal for DNV                4U6         108      443        362       Z16          480        160       228      2.811                    >
Total                            828             651                                      1795                       3.274       
Source: DNV
September 19U



- 118 -
ANNEX 6
Table 2
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Ports Institutional Development Program -
Staff to Be Trained
Training Areas
Number of        Port       Administration
CategorY            Trainees      Management   and Accountins    Technical    Commercial
High level managers          165            70              40              30             25
Mid-level managers         1,100            80             180             340            500
Skilled workers           1.435            160             265             340            670
Total:                2.700           310             485              710          1.195
Source:  MTOP and mission
May 1968



- 119 -
ANNIEX 6
Table 3
URUCUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Ports Institutional Develogont Progra-
Training Consultants. Scholarshps. eMinars ad Studies 11
A.   Tralnng Consultants
-    Year                    Estimated
Area                       Kan-Yonths       1989   1990   1991   1992         Cost (US$)
Port Operations                               36            12     12      12                  245,000
Poat Planting                                 12            6        3      3                  80,500
Operation Container Trrminal                  12                    3       3       3          80,500
Operatton of General Cargo Teminal             8             3      2       3                  56,000
Operation of Sulk Cargo                        4             2      2                          28,000
Operation of Fishing Terominal                 5                    2       2       1          35,000
Operation of Perishable Products               2                    2                          14,000
Industrial Safety                              5                    2       2       l          35,000
Labor Legislation                              3             1      2                          21,000
Operation of           Cargo                   2             1      1                          14,000
Contaner'es AldUTsTration                      8            4       4       2       2          56 000
Vartous Cosultants                            12            2       3       3       3          80 000
Subtotalt                                 109           31      38      30      10         745,000
S.   Scholarships Abroad
Number of
Scholarships/   Duration                  --           a                estimated
Category          Seminars        (months)  %tan-tonths  1989   1990   1991   1992  Cost (US$)
Haagers                   5            1              5         1      2       1       1       20,000
Professionals             7            2             14         2      2       2       I       49,000
Traineo                  12             1            12         3       3       3      3       48,000
Seinars                   a            0.25           2         2      2       2       2       14.000
Subtotal:             32            4.25         23         6       7       6       4     131,000
C.   Local Seminars
Number of      Number o'                                            Estimated
CAtuzor             Trainees       Seminars                                              (Cost aSS)
anMagrs                   100             20                                                   30,000
Professionals             440             22                                                   66,000
Operatios                  60              5                                                    6 000
Subtotal:              600            47                                                  102,000
0.   Traintin  - Related Studies
Duration                                              Estimated
Sublact                    (man-monoeh)                                            Cost (USS)
luesa Resources                          12                                                   34,000
Training Need                            6                                                    17,000
Occuptlonal Analyse                     18                                                    40,000
Retraining                               12                                                   34,000
Trainin g  aluation                       6                                                   16.000
Subtotals                            54                                                  i4l 000
GRAND TOTALs                                                                           1,119,000
1/ 2iX Vale Added Tax should be added to amounts lidicated to A, B, C end 0 of this table.
1tUVAS Mm ad 1l9ULOn
ay1986



- 120 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Summary of Economic Justificat_v.
A. General
1.       Reports  on  the  economic  feasibility  studies,  carried  out by
consultants, for the major project components, are included in the Project
File  (Annex 10).    The  following  summary  is  based  upon  the studies'
findings, modified as necessary to reflect updated information as well as
the appraisal mission's judgement.
3.       All costs  and  benefits  used  in  the  analysis  are  based upon
expected April 1988 price. and shadow-prices as necessary. In aggregate,
shadow prices of 70? for labor and 902 for materials have been used.
B. Route 1
2.       Economic studies for  this  component,  carried out by consultants
CSI, INVIAL SENICO, VIALUR, SAE (Uruguay and Argentina), compare the
benefits and costs from: (a) constructing Route 1 on a new agreement vis a
vis continuing the current pavement management strategy for the existing
road; as well as (b) the alternative solution of a new alignment as opposed
to reconstruction within the existing alignment. The benefits considered
in  both  cases  include:    (a) vehicle  operating  costs  (voc)  savings;
(b) accident costs reductions; (c) time savings; (d) avoidance of costly,
frequent  pavement  overlay  and   rehabilitation.         The  costs  comprise
investment and maintenance costs.  Traffic  on the road in the opening year
of 1992 has been estimated to range between a high of 4,515 vehicles per
day (vpd) (of which 352 are heavy vehicles) on the Montevideo side, to
1,290 vpd (of which 38Z are heavy vehicles) on the Colonia end. Traffic
growth has been estimated to be a modest 22 p.a. A detailed analysis for
five homogenous sections of Route 1 showing the traffic, voc savings,
maintenance costs savings, savings from reduction in accident rates and
time savings as well as the cost and benefit streams for the entire road is
presented in the Project File.   The  stream  of costs and benefits for the
road is shown  in  Table 1  of  this  annex.    The  result of the economic
analysis, based upon the above costs and benefits show that constructing
Route 1 as a portland cement concrete road on a new alignment would yield
an economic rate of return (ERR) of about 261 and is, therefore,
economically justifiable. Sensitivity tests on assumptions of (a) a 102
cost overrun, and (b) a 102 reduction in benefits shows that the ERR is
still over 122.
C. Reconstruction/Upgrading of National Paved Roads
4.       Economic studies for Routes 6 and  7, carried out by DNV and AETE,
compare the benefits and costs of reconstructing these roads with the
current strategy of frequent heavy maintenance on the existing roads. The
costs include reconstruction and tmintenance costs while the benefits



- 121 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
include: (a) voc savings; (b) savings in maintenance costs; and (c) time
savings. Tables 2 and 3 of this annex show the relevant inputs taken into
consideration in estimating costs and benefits for the analysis as well as
the resulting cost/benefit flows for  the  roads.   The analysis shows that
reconstructing the two roads would yield ERRs of 222 and 182 respectively.
The remaining roads to be included in the project will be selected from the
existing list of roads for which AETE has estimated ERRs ranging between
152 to 902. The economic analysis for any additional road to be included
in the project would be updated by DNV/AETE using the methodology employed
for Routes 6 and 7 above to ensure that its would ERR exceed 12?.
D. Periodic Maintenance Program for Departmental Roads
5.       The periodic maintenance program covers 10,000 km of unpaved roads
dispersed within the country's 18  departments.   Given the large number of
road sections involved (about 500 sections), the relatively low cost per km
(about US$3,200 per km for periodic and US$350 per km/year for routine
maintenance) and the paucity of traffic and surface roughness data on the
roads, it was agreed with DNV that a road by road ERR would not be
estimated. Instead, a threshold type analysis was adopted which consists
of estimating the traffic levels and composition necessary to attain ERRs
of 122 under various conditions of surface roughness, roadway geometrical
and estimated periodic and subsequent routine maintenance costs. Each road
is then tested  against  the  threshold  traffic  corresponding to its road
surface and geometric conditions. The list of roads to be included in the
first year periodic maintenance program is based upon: (a) their passing
the threshold test; (b) priority listing provided by the departments; and
(c) traffic levels.   The  threshold  ERRs  were  obtained by comparing the
periodic and routine maintenance costs with the benefits from reduction in
vehicle operating costs.   The  voc  savings  were calculated using the HDM
vehicle operating cost model, taking into consideration road surface
roughness and geometric  characteristics.    A  detailed description of the
method used by MTOP in the analysis as well as tables showing the
parameters considered are included in MTOP's report 'Evaluacion de Caminos
DepartamentalesT included in the  Project  File.    A  list  of roads to be
included in the periodic maintenance program during the first year is
provided in Table 4  of  this  Annex.    For  roads  to  be included in the
programs for subsequent years the same methodology would be employed and
the cut-off ERR of 122 maintained. Should DNV request the inclusion of new
feeder roads in the program, the roads would be analyzed by the consumer
surplus approach method with which MTOP's AETE is fully conversant.
E. The Montevideo Port Improvements
6.       The  feasibility  studies   for   the   proposed  improvements  at
Montevideo Port were carried out by consultants INTECSA (Spain). The
consultants, based on various port traffic growth assumptions, tested
different alternative investments with a port simulation model to obtain
the optimum economic returns. Details of the simulation model are included
in the consultants report entitled "Plan de Desarrollo a Largo Piazo para
el Puerto de Montevideo" included in the Project File. The salient ports
are summarized below.



- 122 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 6
7.       Closing  Dike:  construction  of  the  closing  dike  would  yield
benefits in the form of:   (a) reduced cost of annual maintenance dredging;
and (b) protection of some 300 hectares for the expansion of ship repair
facilities, etc. Table 5 of this Annex presents the costs and benefit
flows for the assumed 20-year economic life of these investments. The
benefits from reduced maintenance dredging alone would result in an ERR of
762 for these works.
8.       Provision of Additional Electrical  Power Supply: the provision of
additional electrical  power  supply  would:    (a) permit the simultaneous
operation of the container crane and the general cargo cranes, thus,
reducing ship waiting time and cutting down on the period of dead time for
the cargo-handling labor force; (b) prolong the effective operating hours
at the port; (c) reduce pilferage; and (d) reduce existing losses of
refrigerated goods with the frequent power interruptions. In the economic
analysis only the following benefits have been quantified: (a) reduction
in the possible loss of port traffic due to the saturation of the
Montevideo port without the additional electrical supply; (b) savings from
the reduction of ship waiting time; and (c) savings in manpower costs due
to the reduction of dead time.   The  costs  have been taken as the cost of
electrical power generation and distribution and all its associated civil
works and the  operating  costs  of  the  power  supply:    these amount to
US$3,400  and  US$215,000  per   year,respectively.         The  benefits  from
prevention of  diversion  have  been  estimated  by  consultants INTECSA as
US$7.67 per ton additional costs in the alternative ports and US$27.5 per
ton average for  transport  from  and  to  the  other  ports  by road.  The
reduction in ship waiting  time  has  been  costed  at US$5,625 per day for
container ships  of  12,850  TPM,  US$5,663  for  those  of  30,500 TPM and
US$5,880 per day for  container  ships  of  600  TEU capacity.  Lastly, the
benefits from reduced dead time for the container crane crew are costed at
US$83.44 for the crew. Table 6 of this annex presents the calculation of
the different costs and benefits that are used in the economic analysis and
the resulting flow of costs and benefits during the 20-year period of
analysis.  The  investments  for  the  additional  electricity supply would
yield an ERR of 502.
9.       Other Montevideo Port Investments:    The physical improvements in
the container terminal, the remodeling and paving of the general and bulk
cargo areas and of internal roads and the purchase of additional cargo
handling equipment, at an estimated cost of about US$7.45 million, would
yield benefits in  the  form  of:    (a) increased  port productivity, with
reductions in cargo handling costs and ship waiting times; and (b) prolong
the lives of port  equipment.    Owing  to  the difficulty of isolating the
effect of each of these investments on port productivity, consultants
INTECSA used a simulation model for the "with' and "without, project case
to estimate the increase in port productivity and hence savings. Details
of the methodology, the simulation model and its results are included in
the Project File. The results indicated that the investments would yield
an economic return of 46Z.
F. Small Craft Ports
10.      Feasibility studies for the expansion of the Punta Del Este and La
Paloma ports were carried out by consultants CEDEX and INYPSA (Spain). For
the Punta Del Este Port, the proposed construction of additional wharves



- 123 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 6
would result in: (a) increased use of the marina and resulting revenues
from boat charges; (b) spin-off effects from provision of ship services;
and (c) general net spending by  tourists.    Revenues  from the use of the
marina have been based on tariffs of US$4.5 per meter per day for 60 days
and US$1.6 per meter per day  for  30  days.  In all about 110 embarkations
per year of such boats are estimated.   Net benefits from services to boats
are estimated at US$2.3 per day for 20 meter boats and US$1.2 per day for
10 meter boats. For net benefits from general spending by tourists, an
average estimate of US$19.38 per day has been used. Table 7 of this Annex
presents the cost/benefit stream for the 18-year analysis period of the
investment. The investment in the port would yield an ERR of 432. The
construction of the breakwater at the La Paloma fishing port and redredging
of the wharf areas would permit the additional fishing activities being
actively promoted by the Government.   Quantifiable benefits would include:
(a) port charges to fishing boat3; (b) net value of additional fish catch
generated by the improvements;and (c) savings in transport costs to the
Montevideo fishing port which would otherwise be necessary without the La
Paloma investments.   The  assumptions  on  fishery development activities,
projections of fish catches and other parameters entering the economic
analysis  are  detailed  in   the   Consultants'  report  entitled:    "The
Feasibility Studies of the Recreational Ports of Punta del Este and
Piriapolis and the Fishing Port of La Palomal included in the Project File.
The economic return from the investments in the La Paloma port would be
282.
C. Piridpolis Purt Project
11.      Background.  Piriapolis is located  on  the Costa de Oro, some 100
km east of Montevideo and 40 Km west of Punta del Este. Its present
population is estimated at 5,800 inhabitants.   The town was founded in the
early 19008 and became the preeminent summer resort in Uruguay in the
1930s. In the 1950s Piritpolis was overtaken by Punta del Este but the
town still attracts family tourism.   Its infrastructure is gradually being
upgraded and could easily accommodate a substantial increase in tourism.
Even during the 1987 peak tourism season the utilization of the existing
hotel capacity was only about 402.   Piriapolis is well suited for all-year
tourism because of its sheltered location, surrounding natural sites, and a
nearby game park.
12.      The proposed port project would extend an existing pier, construct
another pier, and create a protected port that would be used by pleasure
boats, fishing boats and by a planned ferry from Buenos Aires. The
enlarged port could be expected to reverse the long decline of Piriapolis
and accelerate the already initiated renovation and expansion of the town
itself. Data on foreign tourism arrivals in Uruguay by year and season are
shown in Table 8.
13.      Expected Economic Benefits.  The  construction  of the port can be
expected to produce five benefits.    The  first  benefit (Bi) would be the
direct charges for the  use  of  the  port  that  would be paid by pleasure
boats.  Only 95Z of  these,  assumed  to  be  paid from foreign tourists in
foreign exchange, have been included.   Discounted at 122 Bl represents 102
of total benefits. The second benefit (B2) comprises the value added @422
of charges for boat repairs and service that the increased port traffic
would generate. Discounted at 12Z B2 represents 2Z of the total benefits.



- 124 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 6
The third benefit (B3) measures the value added @42Z of tfe expenditure of
incremental  pleasure  boat  tourists.    The  daily  expenditure  has been
estimated at US$21 per day per person with 95Z of this expenditure
projected to be from foreign tourists.    Discounted at 122 B3 accounts for
322 of total benefits.   The  fourth  benefit (B4) measures the value added
p422 of the incremental expenditure of non-boat tourists that are attracted
to Piridpolis as a result of the port construction. The daily expenditure
has been estimated at a low US$15 per tourist, in recognition of the fact
that Piriapolis non-boat tourists will be lower spenders than Punta del
Este tourists. Discounted at 122 B4 represents 372 of total benefits. The
fifth benefit (B5) comprises the value added of the expenditure from short-
term foreign tourists that will visit Piri4polis as a result of a planned
car-ferry that will operate between Buenos Aires and Piri§polis. Only half
of the expenditure of the projected visitors has been included. Discounted
at 122 B5 amounts to 182 of total benefits.
14.      Estimated Economic Costs.  The  economic costs have been estimated
as 672 of the financial incremental investment costs (Cl) plus financial
operations and  maintenance  costs  (C2).    The  correction  factor of 672
summarizes the effect of subtracting 212 on account of the value added tax.
other taxes and import duties, and shadow-pricing labor the nominal wage
rates at 48Z. Both the existing infrastructure and the hotels will be able
to accommodate the incremental tourism projected without any capacity
increase.
15.      Benefit/Cost Comparison.  The comparison between economic benefits
and costs is shown in Table 9. The resulting rate of return is 222 for the
base case, well in excess of the 122 opportunity cost of capital for
Uruguay. Discounted at 122 the net benefits amount to US$4.9 million in
prices of October 1988. The two project value measurements show that the
Piriapolis port project is economically justified.
16.      Sensitivity analysis has been  made  of the economic justification
by varying both benefits and costs.   The result is summarized in Table 10.
The analysis shows that only in the extremely unlikely case of costs
increasing by 202, berthing charges (Bl) decreasing by 102, service charges
(B2) disappearing altogether, pleasure-boat tourist expenditure dropping by
302, other tourism expenditure decreasing by 80Z, and ferry tourism
expenditure falling by 2OZ would the economic rate-of-retufn go below 12z.
17.      Probabilities have also been  assigned  to the different values of
both benefits and costs and the resulting rate-of-retiArn have been
calculated. The combined probability curve drawn in Table 11 shows the
probability that the rate-of-return of the Piritpolis port project will
exceed a certain value.   For  instance,  the probability that the rate-of-
return will exceed 17Z is 0.97, or near certainty.
18.      Foreign Exchange Balance.    The  Piriapolis  port project will be
financed in part by external loans that will later require debt service to
be paid using up  foreign  exchange.    On  the  other  hand, the port will
generate foreign exchange earnings from the tourists attracted to the port.
On balance, the foreign exchange balance will be positive. In 1995, the
year of the highest debt service some US$0.96 million will be required for
debt service. However, in the same year the incremental foreign exchange
expenditure from tourists will reach US$4.69 million, producing a highly
favorable foreign exchange balance.



- 125 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 6
19.      Fiscal Balance.  The net  impact  from the Piriapolis port project
on the Uruguay quasi-fiscal balance will be positive as well. If the
incremental value added tax of 102 of the expenditure is added, a.,suming a
multiplier of 2 from additional expenditures, the incremental tax receipts
to the public treasury would be about US$0.94 milion. This incremental tax
payment will continue during the entire period of operations of the
project.   Discounted  at  12Z  to  the  year  1994,  these incremental tax
payments  amount  to  US$7.6  million.    The  annual  Government financial
contributions to the construction of the port and for the partial payment
of debt service can be similarly discounted at 122 to the year 1994 and
amount to US$6.9 mtllion. The net effect on the public financial position
is thus positive.



uS SI A V
EsasmS.l ageeesties ofSab 
t*^"st|t ta"geD |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
_n"b                               *5111.4 1z.61 31l&S 1.U3  611A    *.0    *.0    *.0    *.0   4.0    L0    6.0    $A                                          0.0 -$UU          *A*    00    0.0    0.0    0.0    LO    00    *.0    0.46 46-h
l  ,  w,_>1a- o-x1x*tn -Ie"    amit  ru-pm l omwb a)                                                                                    U-lt  lh1- -11-91 11-Wl 31 -aa2*                     II-"    IU6-     lX-i-   U@l- h1hlF1 §  l
mu       mw   Ik.                                                                                    l1e.2W     541.11   1513  1s41    MN    W."   641.a1           ma 11,..1         L      S.   S  Ia   1    el.ie M    1. W1.3   110    d.     s14 1.21  11411    13'.I            t
£Ifls        Prim                                      e.g       e.g       s.c        s.c   11.5    15.1       U.c    m.   e.i2s.e  wig   u& .;ieu                 ge.i   Oil .u             lineD   14h w .u sn.    s.aa   1s.U   is.C    Vel   us'                  .eset4
la  _m %  m  moris  _wft  ft
ftd*    66                                                                               411.0    0;6.3    641.21    "Us    Gum1    Mn.           136.1     M.m    M.16  M."    on."    Br.18  W?."           M.14  " i    %2.4    "I.m   IfIm    i141.11  131!.11            
6 X           _  PSI U                                      -tI M   WISIP  IS-Ilis 1 5-lti-l  1l1-1-11  It-Il-li U-Il-H4 11-1        1-13 2-6 1-1211 31-1l2-  ll*11-1 --U i-              11-12,4"13   3Il-1l    1-13-  2-11. 5 1      U-l-l    15-11-4  11-11-N  A.12-Il   Il- I-LI
l        mki                                                                                1I.* m      .n     I.1$ 111.11  11.3    0 1   1.4n  56.11   IU.g   S4UM  MIt   1U.041   1.11   114.0   tll         M."    WSC         52.10    ".3    2 1   hi."          ;:e n
endow s    rIm cS                                                e 4.4-   e.g.       s .0      .s.3 f, .n 16     .s    tie *    e."     Ill-l    "S."   I111.1,  Ioala     I 111.1            n.41    i.     I.    11    WM.u   631.11  .           s846A   Is.-n IXl.l
1 _sg 1-1gm "M 159
_m         Pki                                                                              :M.41   11.91   1W1  n5  )1.1D   141.11   SILlS   14.34  111.45   1I.59   4sil   454.5    413    4391n              1.1.03 J.14.6    409ll   01.14, *n.        3110 I    I' -
tn_g        #VON                                       9g.      O.C"      9.14        .C   3.11.  111.13   1;.1    M t   241.12   131.31   I5.1J   31&.s1 4el    11l.i 111 m.n   Mn.     IN.                   1IL.n  1 U      14  3Ut.^   31.41.  11 1      31.9      S.II
#. *_ah  btm SH                n  *. p                      I; :1 s I lIt  SI-IlS  11-*1-  11 1-111 II *l - 1 1 1 124 111 t- l      1-U l-Il-   I1- l-Il Sl-lS   11-63l1-S   34-11-U  li-ti-   15-11-1 li-tI-I  11-1-44  31-13-0  a    1--Sn     11-t1 i* -ti-1 CI-li-Il ti-tI-IS  Il-Ii
mIOSI kim                                                                                    II 1       51     1.1 5t    . I1S    11.12    11.U0   II.40   11.3    se11   Il.N     IJ-tI 1144 tJ lt             lb."      -11.    11.11      !.t1    U1.lt    1' NA    UI .1
£tfflmq  "INS                                          .n -     4, o e      so       S.C      l.t     1..      CI.      t.ll    t.t4    I1.t1    t.ll       .e1      lta     t.1    M." lt.ll   If.lI    11.24    05.39    Il.l    St li              2.5 11   .9       Is.n
Ubi fase 01_mb  *1IIU
_%   Pt im                                            *          L_        ON t44 *4.  *                      1191.11   ,r15 10Nl.tl  5I3.5   MIXSA.  J2N411 nu12.1  IJU.tJ  44141 .2 l  . ,5 14  16.l 1   ld.l. 2518.11   11.4i .1 1 1119.11 .   Ilvi'.3I    !:1' '.    1 ;. -
605.1.aq  PrIm                                        so0       054 *4 *4   1H              6 S 11   .11  1111 o     tltS.I  ;t lip     114.11  lest..)  141).1   144.41   141.118    ll l.  llil i5  .14 11 11 in  lit34."  1141.01  m11          l. 11l1.1  itai.1  ;l,"-51
_ wse kIm * 
ETES md mission l
r14
Uayl9S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             n- 



- 127 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Economic Evoluatlon of Rout- 6
(NS tOOO)
Costs                Total      Operating     Time     Savinps In   Total          Not Flow
Year   Construction   Ma i ntenance    costs        Costs      SovIngs    Ac Idents   Benefits        (B-C)
1989     926,601      -62,669          863,932                                                       -863,932
1990     926,601      -49,786          876,865                                                       -876,865
I991                  -51,495          -51,495   187,417       128,210    20,112      335,789         387,234
I992                  -52,444          -52,444   194,914       133,338    20,916      349,169         401,613
1993                  -66,042          -68,042   202,710       188,672    21,753      363,135         431,177
1994                  -56,325          -56,325   210,819       144,219    22,623      377,661         433,986
1995                  -56.428          -56,428   219,251       149,968    23,528      392,767         449,195
1996                  -60,523          -60,525   228,021       155,987    24,469      408,478         469,001
I997                  -75,511          -75,511   237,142       162,227    25,448     424,817          500,328
i998                  -65,064          -65,064   246,628       168,716    26,466     441,810          506,874
199                   -67,471          -67,471   256,493       175,464    27,525     459,482          526,953
2000   -1,612,288     -57,587       -1,669,878   266,758       182,483     28,626     477,861       2,147,734
Economic Rate of Return 0.22
Not Presont Worth: 963,984
Source: MTOP and mission
may 1988



128  -ANNEX  7
Table 3
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Economic Evaluatlon of Route 7
(NS 1000)
Costs                Total      Operating     Time     Savings In   Total           Net Flow
Year    Constructlon    aI ntenance    costs        Costs      SeaInms    Accidents   Benefits         (B-C)
1989     1,540,066    -209,880        1,330,186                                                      -1,330,186
1990      1,540,066    -240,802       1,399,264                                                      -1,399,264
1991                  -145,311         -145,311   236,688      149,123     41,303     427,114           572,425
1992                   -47,913          -47,913   246,156      155,068     42,955     444,199           492,112
1993                  -119,821         -119,821   256,002      161,291     44,678     461,967           581,788
1994                   -56,225          -56,225   266,242      167.743     46,460     480,445           536,670
1995                   -60,632          -60,632   276,891      174,453     48,319     499,663           560,295
1)96                     7,392            7,892   287,967      181,431     50,251      519,649          512,257
1997                  -132,216         -132,216   299,486      188,688     52,261     540,435           678,541
1998                   -74,938          -74,938   311,465      196,236     54,352      562,053          636,991
1999                   -80,094          -80,094   323.924      204,085     56,526     584,535           664,629
2000   -1,612,288       -85,455      -2,518,759   336,881      212,249      58,787     607,916       3,126,876
Econcoir Rat of Return 0.18
Net Present Worth t 920,656
Source: MTOP and misslon
may 19J8



VAIMI T MNLET I
First low Department  Road P
SectJibo.! po uma  Sect. Ib.Rbuagoaess Sect. IM. llbugmeu 'Sect. No. IlhRmaeu 'Sools  N.bq-lnbMS   S  tiom "D. IRsg s                        I
KNWARI    J       S c   Lt'         I5    I              (vpd)                                 m ILeqthi  . e    L s .     .0tTww    !TOTAL .s"
_ _ _ _               _       _                                                            37 _     _   _   _    _
ARUMS           15 033)  C21l 25      20 (23) CA) 32    *6 Ml1 (19) 7           35 (15)  (18) 37        1 29) ! 12) 4                               ICS5    1
CA_ELONES   _49 (90) (flS) 8    0 842 (80) (1S) C  109 (O) e() it    1 3 CIO)13530 (20)I6    150 (S0)   (33 25   1  123 (80) (10) 17                1
121 (80)  (05) 1      138 30) (15) 28    146 (50)' (10) 33  !37 (30      I (5.8 36     200 (80)  (1  26       148 (150) (10) 30  ! 252_
GM__ UR60   25-4 (322  120) 7       2     2211 (20) 16  1297 (22)1 (20) 7   t25-1 (22) 1tl7) 30  [2SS (2) 1 (161 )        1 25-12  C221 1151 14      6
1         1(19140    '21-2(26  I1S)27'                                                                                                140     !
CCLCNIA        126 (30  11  9.5    133 (80  (6   0         11 (50) (16) 8.5   121 (50)  (17) 11.6 26-2 140)  (20) 5.5         127 (40) 16 213
________ 357 (40) 116) 8  144.3( 40)1(9 tl9   .o   30  (16) 14  1 138 30'1 (162 5.5     66 (280)' (15) 6                   ) 2  2100  IIS).5 110     1
WW____    70 (20) 1(20) 77    ,  9 120) (316) 28.4AI                                                                      I                          05. 
fLtlES          11 (20) 115) 22   1 48 (35)1 (I5) 3  I 1S (20)1 (9) 17                                                                              s o I  I  1 1 S0 1
LRIDA           15 (35) (20) 27       57 15)1 (20) 17    24 (15)(20) 20         33(15) 1(20) 13       S0 (13)  (20) 3          29  (5)A (14) 20  1
_1 23    ) (12) 17    1                                                                                                                1 1  1  1  I  1 _  1 _   127   1
I                                    I_ *-tI    I    -                          I_ I_ I                       _I
LAVAULEJA       68(0    1)26          96 2529 1 ) 17     90 (40)13 2)70  1  5 U)'  (12) 16                                                          1 j29
3#LDIISM2O       3      1420)2) 5.6    75 S(    (U38)15 '27t17) 4.4               (IS) ( 517) 3.5    98 (35)  (17) 14.7            Sl        10
St1      138.         20  (:SS)1151z1,2110 SIA                                                                                       9    |22.1 !
DjE25)  385) 6t                       63 2l0 1 (5 )12 30.1 It   )21) I j 114 (IS7)                 I 02  3 (15) i(17 14       125  Us)i (14)   1 125        1
R1o mam          I (70) (I8221         8 i(40)1 (I5S 30    16 (28)  (10) 32                                    i                    i _  i  _  _    _ | |  87
Rll1A           54(26)  (20)27        36(26)  (20)2        1(20)  (20)108      18(15)  (20)11 tj _                                                0318
0mo             34 30) 119)40         29 (50) (14) 37       2(352  (15) I5                                    1                                   192
S1170           50(28)  (35)43        27(56) (55)58    *9 IS       55      3                                    ______   ____         __5S4_
SAN4 ANS        29 (330) (52 36       IS (40) (5)  17       9 (0)  (5) is       22 100)  (5) 32       25 ("0)  (5)          _____                    06
___      _      3S t3W _21) 13        68 (45) (18) 14      42 (30)1 (18) 11     80 GO)  (38) 13        27 (30)  (18) 52                             103
TAOeoU           I G13   (16)9        17(22)  (2) 13  11                    31        )   416      11-                                 1          jMl  IN   I
neEuNrA r TIS   X6 CA) (20) 4       ! 23 (201! (201 14  !21 (20)! (18) 7   I '31-1 4-20) ! II) 10     19 (IS) ! 20) 35 S                            70      !
TOTL_                                                                                                                                              2047.1
I/ and na  crrspmndlag to Section lb. Ic provided In the ProjactFi l.
The file aib  cotains lantntlon o existing reed cMracterlstic.
V   Rloin" In WMIh



- 130 -
ANNEX 7
Table 5
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PRuJECT I
Economic Evaluation of Closing Dike
(US$1600)
Maintenance
Year      Investment         Savings        BJ-CJ-IJ
1988           426                             (426)
1989           852                             (852)
1990           852            (1,592)           740
1991                          (1,592)         1,592)
1992                          (1,592)         1,592)
1993                          (1,592)         1,592
1994                          (1,592)         1,592
1995                          (1,592)         1,592
1996                          (1,592)         1,592
1997                          (1,592)         1,592
1998                          (1,592)         1,592
1999                          (1,592)         1,592
2000                          (1,592)         1,592
2001                          (1,592)         1,592
2002                          (1,542)         1,592
2003                          (1,592)         1,592
2004                          (1,592)         1,592
2005                          (1,592)         1,592
2006                          (1,592)         1,592
2007                          (1,592)         1,592
2008                          (1,592)         1,592
2009                          (1,592)         1,592
2010        (1,170)           (1,592)         2,762
1,579           (9,594)         8,015
Economic Rate of Return ......... 76.29%
Source:  MTOP and mission
May 1988



- 131 -                                       ANNEX
Table 6
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Economlc Evaluation of Power SuPPIY
(USS 3000)
Savings     ShIp
fram      Waiting   Savings In
Cost   Retaining     Tlim       lbnpowor     Benefit
Y"r    Investnt   Maintenance   Flows   Traffic    Savings         Costs         Flows    BJ-CJ-iJ
1988     836.55                                                                           (836.55)
1989     716.76                                                                           (716.76)
1990     721.31                                                                           (721.31)
1991     341.31                                                                           (341.31)
1992     228.34                                                                           (228.34)
1993                  214.88     214.88                 776.00      565.00     1,341.00   1,126.12
1994                  214/,88    214.88               2,436.00      602.00    3,038.00   2,823.12
1995                  214.88    214.88                4,096.00      639.00    4,735.00   4,520.12
1996                  214.88    214.88   4,657.00     5,756.00      676.00    11,089.00  10,874.12
1997                  214.88     214.88   7,111.00    3,834.00      712.00    11,657.00  11,442.12
1906                  214.88     214.88   9,566.00    1,912.00      749.00    12,227.00  12,012.12
1999                  214.88     214.88   3,883.00     1,912.00     633.00    6,428.00   6,213.12
20C0                   214.88    214.88   3,862.00     1,912.00     517.00    6,291.00   6,076.12
2001                   214.88    214.88   3,876.00     1,912.00     401.00    6,189.00   5,974.12
2002                  214=m    721A.8    q.OC)         ?,?!1_.,     285.00    6,052.00   5,837.12
2003                   214.88    214.88   3,869.00     1,912.00     169.00     5,950.00   5,735.12
2004                  214.88    214.88   3,R62.OC      1,912.00      72.00     5,846.00   5,631.12
2005                   214.88    214.88   3,355.00     1,912.00     (25.00)    5,742.00   5,527.12
2006                  214.88     214.88   3,183.00     1,912.00    (121.00)   5,674.00   5,459.12
2007                  214.88    214.88  3,376.00       1,912.00    (218.00)    3,570.00   5,355.12
2008                  214.88     214.88   3,369.00    1,912.00    (315.00)    5,466.00   5,251.12
2009                   214.88    214.88  3. 883.00     1,912.00    (499.00)    5,296.00   5,081.12
2010                  214.88    214.88  ',862.00      1,912.00    (683.00)   5,091.00   4,876.12
2011                  214.8b    214.88   3,876.00      1,912.00    (868.00)    4,920.00   4,705.12
2012                  214.88    214.88   3,855.00     1,912.00  (1,052.00)   4,715.00   4,500.12
2013    (258.83)       214.88    214.88   3,869.00     1,912.00   (1,236.00)    4,545.00   4,588.95
2,164.61       922.03    922.03  14,294.91    10,752.77    1,613.44    26,661.12  23,574.48
Economic Rate of Return .......... 50.19%
SoSuc    NT  and mission
my 1986



-132 -                                             ANNEX  7
Table 7
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Economic Evaluation of Punta del Este
(.US5l1UUU)
Docking    Net Revenues         Revenues                    Cost
Year    Charges    from Services    from Sailors   Construction    Operating Costs           TOTAL
1988                                                     (562.805)                         (562.805)
1989                                                     (497.380)                         (497.380)
1990    232.240        23.740           339.539                            (35.000)         560.519
1991    232.240        23.740           339.539                            (35.000)         560.519
1992    232.240        23.740           339.539                            (35.000)         560.519
1993    232.240        23.740           339.539                            (35.000)         560.519
1994    232.240        23.740           339.539                            (35.000)         560.519
1995    232.240        23.740           339.539                            (35.000)         560.Si9
1996    232.240        23.740           339.539                            (35.000)         560.519
1997    232.240        23.740           339.539                            (35.000)         560.519
1998    232.240        23.740           339.539                            (35.000)         560.519
1999    232.240        23.740           339.539                            (35.000)         560.519
2000    232.240        23.740           339.539                            (35.000)         560.519
2001    232.240        23.740            339.539                           (35.000)         560.519
2002    232.240        23.740            339.539                           (35.000)         560.519
2003    232.240        23.740            339.539                           (35.000)         560.519
2004    232.240        23.740           339.539                            (35.000)         560.519
2005    232.240        23.740            339.539                           (35.000)         560.519
2006    232.240        23.740            339.539                           (35.000)         560.519
2007    232.240        23.740            339.539          530.093          (35.000)         560.519
Economic Rate of Return: 43.002
Net Present Worth at 12: US$2,395,400
Source:  MTOP and mission
May 1988



URUGUAY
FIRST TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PROJECT
Foreign Tourist Arrivals by Season 1978-1907
(Thousands)
1978      1979      1980       1981      1982       1983      1984      1986       1W        1987
TOTAL URUGUAY
Tourist Arrivals, 000
Poek Seaoon, Jan. 1-March 16         290        440        480       650       280       270        410       460        5io       430
Reomining Year, March 16-D.c. 31    680         830        760       620       630       680        600       680       6)         820
Total Arrivals                       820      1,270      1,280     1,070       790       800      1,010     l,080     2,1S.?    1,050
Tourist Expenditures, Million USS
Peak Season, Jan. 1-March 16          69        123        188       206        78        47        107       111        16(       116
Reaining Year, March 16-Doc. 31    e6           164        1ll        79        28        43        103       124       _e          88
Total Expenditure                    134       287         297       284       108        90        210       236       26E        204
Per Tourist Expenditure, USS
Peak Season                          240        280        390       370       soo       170        260       260        310       270
PZRWLS OULY
Tourist Arrivals, 000
Peak Season                           19         30         5s        37        13        13         28        31         as        22
Romining Year                         NA         NA         NA        NA        NA        NA         NA        NA        NA          8
Total Arrivals                        NA         NA         NA        NA        NA        NA         NA        NA        NA         32
Tourist Expenditure, Million US$
>1 D
Peak Season                            4.6        7.8       12.3      14.3       3.4       1.4        4.2       5.8        9.8       5.0
Per Tourist Expenditure, USS                                                                                                                        C
Peak Season                          240        250        860       390       260       110        160       190       280        270
Sourco:  Ministry *f Touricm



.JIM.UAI
mow. SWm N= I
NI @ PUiJlM
ta (m00l castut IS octobe, 18.
ko.utc hAs)ysh
* letseot   *       q    *                it  * pr nitcU  * 4       At wule a     geatd Dy               * 
* costs       4 'Cot     *  eafl ts *trneul lift. u   ft       urs    + Stable     * Ocsioul visitars   +                 EstMo d rmltMW
*             *     *                *urvices                         * vocatiofs * attrctai by the Port *
leer'    CI a          CI      * +    I   * t2             +      8t       '       4     '          8          ,.C.-01-3-133 C IPCHI
198*         o 0 0       .00e   *    o.oo          o                      * O * 0.CO                     0.00e           0.00o               0.00
3969, *   i.360.40 *    0.00  *      0,00 *     0,5        *          0.'oo        0.00 *                0,00 *    (1.360.40) *          (1.3500)
I190 *    2.660.70 *    0.00  *      0.00 *     0.0        *          o,eo                    0.00 o     0,oo *    (2.60.70) *           12.60.70)
19901      .509.70 4    o0oo*                 * 0 .00* 0.00             *0 o0e  +    (1.509.70).                                         (1.419.70)
192 *       195.3 *   20.40  +    66.8 4        0,0.       *        212e00        22s.eo                 0.oo           71.05 +            296.05
19934       0o,00 + 40.5   *   137.7 *    38,3             *        424.00        360.00 *               0.00 *        559.4 6             919..
1994 *       0,00o     40o.l*   206.6 4        38,S3       *        636,00 *     540,00 *                o,o0  *       00.36 *           1.30.36
*99.D0,00 *   40,14    2064 +    38,53               +        636.00 *     630.00 +               463.05 4       840.36 *.9+33,1
i996 +       0.00      40,61*   2  64 +    38.53           +        636.00       661.50 *               463.05         8 40.36 *         1.961,91
199           0.00o    +   40.1 +   206. +    38.3          *       636.00o       693.00 +              463.05          8 40.36 * 49r*o
199  *        0.00 4   40.01  4   206,64*    38.S3                  6.o0  *       n724.so0              463.05e        80.36 +           2.027.91
1999*         0.004   40.6 3    20.64+    38.5              *       636.00 +      756.00 *              463.054         840.36 *         2.059.41
20001    +    0.00     40,1 +   206.64 *    38AS           *        63600'         77.50 '              463.05 +       80,36 '           2.090.9)
200l *        0,0o *   40.61  *   206A64     38,53         +        636.00 *       01,00                463.0s         640.36'            2.104.41
2002 *        o0.o *   40.61  +   206.64 +    38.53        +        636.00 *      614.50  +             463.05 +        40.36 *           2.117.9)
200  *        0.00 *   40.1  +   206.64 *    38.53         *        636.00 '      612.S0  +              63.05 *        40.36 *           2.131.4
200s *o0.00            40.61 *   206.64 +    38.5s         *        636.00 *      oss.50o               463.05e        8 0.36*            2.144.91
2005          0        40.61.   206.64          36,3       *        636.00        6 o5.0o *             463.05 *         40.36            2.156.4)
200 '         0o00o *   40.1 *   206.6  *    38,53                                                       6 636.00.  * 55.00 *  463,05  840.36.  2.158,4
20074         0.00oo   40.61 *   206.64 '   30.53          *        636.00        655.004               463.084 *         0.36'*          2.158,U4
20   *        0.00 *   40.81  +   206.64 4    38.53        *        636.00 *      6S5.00 *              463.05 *       840.36 *           2.15.4)
20109'        0.00      40,614    206.64'    36.53                  63i.00 6+  5.0463.05 4                             60.36              2150.MU
2010 *        A0.00      4U.tl    206.64 +    38,S3                636,00 *      655.00 *              463,5 *         40.36  *          2.15M.4M
2013 *        0.00 *   40.61  '   206.64 *    3853                  63.00 *       655.00 *              463.05 *       84.36 *            2,158.41
2012 *        0.00 '   40.1  *   206.64 *    36.3          *        636.00 *       5s.00 *              463.s *         40.36 *           2.156M41
2013 *        0.00 *   401,e    *   206.64 +    38,S3      *                                               A6.00 *  855.00 *  463,05 *  40.36 *  2.156.41
2034 *        0.00 *   40,61  *   206.64 *    3.533        *        636.00 *      655.00                43 .0         M606  *             2.15.41       o UM
2015 +       O0.  +   40.61        206.64 *    38.53       +        636.00'       6 5.00 *              463.05 *       640.36 *           2.158.41     @ 
2016 *        0.00 *   40.81  *   206.6  *    36.53        *        636.00 *       A55.00 '             463.05 *         0.36 *           2.M56.41      ,
2017 *        0.00 *   40.81  *   206.64 *    38,S3        *        636.00 *      655.00 *              463,0  *        40.36 *           2.158.4l
2018 *  0.00 *   40.61   *   206.64 *    38.53  *       636.00 '      655.0  *              463.0           4.6*2184
2019 *        0.oo *   4JI  *   206.6  t    38.53          *        6s6.00 *      85s.00 *              463.05 *       640.36 *           2.1M.U4
2020 *        0.00 *   4.8l  +   206.64 +    38.53        *        636.00 *      6ss.00 *              463.05 *       840.36 *           2.MUM4
2021 *        0.00 *   40.81  *   206.64 *    38.53        *        636.00 *      655.00 *              463.05 *       640.36 *           2.18.41
2022 +    3.4,4413)     40.81  *   206.64 *    38,53        *       636.00 *      655.00 *              463.05 *     4,2.49 #             5.602.54
v1 (120)      3.994.2?    193.11       948.68     176.11              2.99.67      3.363.4               1.672.42        (147.71)           4.s08.25
VIN(l)/0suIVIiI(D1)3                    0.10        0.02                 0.32          0,37                  0.18
¶113       11.61               22.0



- 135 -
ANNEX 7
Table 10
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
ECONOMIC SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF PIRIAPOLIS PORT PROJECT
Rate of
Scenario      C1+C2      Bi        B2       B3      B4       BS        Return
1             Base    +20S       Base     +302  +302      +202         26,0
2              Base    +102      Base     +152  +15Z       +102        24,0
3             Base    Base       Base     Base  Base       Base        22,0
4             +102    +102       Base     Base  -502       +20S        18,3
5             +102    +10X          0     Base  -502       Base         17,5
6             +1OZ    Base       Base     Base  -SO       -202         17,Q
7             +102    +201       Base     Base  -672       -202        16,3
8              Base    +202         0      Base  -802      -202         16,3
9             +102    +202          0     Base  -80Z       -202        15,1
10             +202    +10Z         0      -202  -802      Base         13,4
11            +202    -102          0     -302  -802       -202         11,8
Source:
November 2, 1988



URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Probability Cur%4 of Different Rate-of-Return for the
Pirihpolis Port Project
1-                                                                   _I             .
0,7-
r4,>,        _  _    _           _____     ___   __             _  _-
n'-       0_         _ _                     _ _ _ _ l                                                _ _   _ __ 
0P15         ~~0,1701                               Z1               OZ 1Z 
Rate-of-Return



- 137 -                            ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Montevideo Port Traffic Analysis
A. Methodology
1.        The Montevideo  port  handles  both  Uruguay's  import and export
traffic as well as some transit traffic from Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil and
Paraguay. Uruguayan traffic still constitutes the bulk of the Montevideo
port traffic accounting for about 88? of the total (Table 1 of this Annex).
International transit traffic through Montevideo port from the River Plate
Basin countries has, however, been growing rapidly at over 10? p.a. over
the past six years.  The  Montevideo port's main products are: livestock on
the hoof, meat products, fats and oils, textiles, minerals and edible
vegetable products.
2.        The traffic  forecasts  used  for  analyzing  the Montevideo port
improvements under the proposed project were developed by consultants
INTECSA (Spain) as part of their studies for the Montevideo Port Master
Plan. The consultants report on traffic analysis is included in the
Project File.   The  consultants  made  their  forecasts  for Uruguayan and
transit traffic through the Montevideo port based upon: (a) estimated
development of export and imports of the countries involved over the period
1991 to 2013, which were in turn based on a detailed analysis of world
demand projections of the commodities involved and the Governments'
production plans for exports and the economic prospects for the River Plate
Basin countries for imports; and (b) the likely distribution of exports and
imports traffic in the River Plate Basin countries to the ports in the area
based  on  port  capacity,   productivity,  handling  technology,  physical
constraints and the schedules of the international shipping lines. The
consultants   forecast   traffic   for   three   different   scenarios:   a
'pessimistic', a abasea and an 'optimistic" forecast. The 'base' scenario
was used in the economic analysis of the project components as well as in
ANP's financial forecasts.    Sensitivity  tests  were  performed using the
'pessimistic' scenario.
II. Traffic Forecasts
3.        The most pronounced differences  between  the three scenarios are
the  forecasts  of  the  development   of  Argentina's  grain  exports  and
containerized  traffic,  of  Paraguayan   soy   exports  and  the  rate  of
containerization of Uruguayan traffic.   Each  of these factors is analyzed
below.
(i) Argentine Grain Exports
4.        In the 'base'  scenario,  grains  traffic  from Argentina tbirough
Montevideo would increase from its present zero level to about 100,000 tons
in 1991 and 2 million in the year 2010, a growth rate of 100,000 tons



- 138 -                             ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
additional per year. In the "pessimistic" case, the corresponding values
would be zero throughout  the  period.    This  attraction of traffic by an
improved Montevideo port would be mostly from the Argentine ports of Buenos
Aires and the Parama ports (except Rosario) since these ports do not have
sufficient draughts to absorb the increasing demand.
(ii) Argentinian Containcr Traffic
5.        Some  of   Argentina's   container   traffic   is  forecasted  by
consultants to be transited through Montevideo port starting in 1991 with
28,000 tons and reaching about 560,000 tons in 2010. This would be traffic
diverted from the Buenos Aires port which has both draught limitations and
very poor conditions  for  container-operation.    Should Argentina move to
increase the drought at the Buenos Aires port or provide sufficient
container-handling capacity in any of its other ports, this expected
transfer to Montevideo port would not occur.
(iii) Uruguayan Grain Traffic
6.        The consultants forecast  a  growth  rate  of  about  42 p.a. for
Uruguayan grains between 1991 &nd 2010 based on world and especially Latin
American demand for grains.    In  the  "pessimistic" case, a corresponding
growth rate of 22 p.a. was assumed.
(iv) Uruguayan Container Traffic
7.        In the "base" case,  Uruguayan  container  traffic is expected to
grow at about 72 p.a. between 1988 and 2008; a reasonable assumption
considering the current low rate of containerization at Montevideo port.
In the pessimistic case the corresponding rates would be slightly lower at
about 62 p.a.
(v) Paraguay's Container Traffic
7.        Paraguay's container traffic through  Montevideo port is expected
under the base scenario to start in 1988 at about 27,000 and increase to
about 180,000 tons in 2010, a growth rate of about 102 p.a. This is based
on the assumption that an improved port can capture all Paraguay's
container traffic in the competition with the Buenos Aires port.
(iv) Total Traffic Projections
8.        The total freight  traffic  through  the  Montevideo  port in the
'base" case is shown  in  Table 4  of  this  Annex.   The following traffic
characteristics are forecasted:
(a) total tonnage would grow from the current 1.36 million tons to
5.41 million tons in 2010; a growth rate of about 6.52 p.a. based
mostly on the expectation of high diversion of Argentina's grain
exports through Montevideo port;



- 139 -                             ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
(b) the share of container traffic would increase from the current
17Z to about 30Z in 2010, a low rate of containerization compared
to some comparable size ports in Latin America;
(c) the share of dry bulk cargo would increase from the current 24Z
to 48Z in 2010, while the corresponding shares for conventional
general cargo would be 59Z and 22Z respectively; and
(d) the share of Uruguayan traffic in total MP traffic would decrease
from its current 85-882 to about 49Z.
May 1988



-140-                                      ANNEX 8
Table 1
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Port of Mtontevideo: Traffic 1985
(000 t)
Exports:                                                 595.7
Liquid bulk                                                      1.4
Dry Bulk                                                       128.1
Containers                                                      74.0
General                                                        392.2
tuorts                                                   414.9
Liquid bulk                                                     70.0
Dry Bulk                                                       213.5
Conta±l  rs                                                     13.7
General                                                        117.7
rfr^auit (International)                                 131.0
Bulk                                                             -
Containers                                                      13.0
General                                                        118.0
Transit (National & Ships Supplies)                        9.3
Sulk 2/                                                          -
Containers                                                       2.4
General                                                          6.9
TOTAL                                                   1150.9
Liquid Bulk                                                     71.4
Ory Bulk                                                       341 6
General                                                        634.8
(Total Dry Cargo)                             (1079.5)
1/ Excludes crude oil Lmports.
./ Not included are 154.7 chousand t of petroleum products distribuced from
the refinery at La Teja to interior ports.
Source: ANP Statistics (1985).
April 1988



- 141 -
ANNEX 8
Ta b-le 2
URUGUAY
TRANSFORT PROJECT I
Montevideo Port Traffic
(000 t)
Liquid          Dy        Containerized    General           Total
1976                                                                      1,128.8/
1977                                                                      1,071.7 .2.
1978                                                                      1,258.0
1979                                                                      1,604.9
1980                                                                      1,326.1
1981                                                                      1,318.0
1982                                                                        972.1
1983          35.8           330.1           68.2 3/        661.7         1,095.8
1984          40.3           302.5           90.7           649.3         1,082.8
1985          76.2           336.8          100.7           737.2         1,150.9
I~/ Includes estimated 20,000 t for national. transit and ships' Isupplies.
2/ Includes estimated 3,000 t for ship supplies.
3/ FEstimated based an 8,822 full units.
Source: ANP
April 1988



URUGUJAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Traffic Prolections (Base Case)
Grains (1000 tons)                                                                          Containers (1000  tons)
With                         Grains                       Other
O-D  in          Soy            from                       Solid         13eneral
Year        URUGUAY        PARACUAY    ARCENTItA    Total               Bulk           Car_ o .ARCENTIWA    URUCUAY    PARAGUAY    Total    TOTAL
(1000  tons)  (1000 tons)
1.985           90             o               0s                        187              165                  0           30              o           '00      1.142
3.966          1o0             o               a            106          217              804                  0           206            27          253       1.360
1.9W9         -132             0               0            112          228              801                  a           237            m           271      1.642
1.990          il1             a               a            its          240              860                  0           270            40           310     1.528
1.991          123             0              tOo           221          248              677                 Z6           2n             47           S74      1.722
3.2            3 126           0             2e0            S28          256              696                 56            s28           5            an6      1.916
1.993133                       a             MO             433          264              911                 84            357           61           502     2.110                    >
1.994          136             0             400            SIB          272              928                112            386           6            S6      2. X0       
1.99           13              0             soo            645          280              965                140            15            n           630      2.498
1.996          149             0             600            749          288              962                168           444            02           696      2.693
3.n7 1154                      0             700            854          296              919                196            673           59 76e               2.087
1.998          IS9             0             8eo            959          m0m              96                 224            502           96           822      3.061
1.999          a64             0             900          1.064           312           1.013                252            531           103          886      3.275
2.00o          169             0           l.OOD          1.169           J20           1.030                280            560           l1o          950      J.469
2.001          174             0           1.100          1.274           328           1.047                J08             19 II                   1.014      J.663
2.002          379             0           1.200          1.379           336           1.064                536            618           124        1.078      3.851
2.003          184             0           1.30           1.484          544            1.081                364            647           131        1.142      4.051
2.006          389             0           1.400           1.589          352           1.098                392            676           139        1.206      4.245
2.005          194             0           1.500          1.694           360           1.115                420            701           145        R.270     6.4)9
2.006          200             0           1.600          L.8.A)          368           1.132                448            754           152        1.334      6.634
2.007          205             0           1.7&0           1.905          376           1.149                476            765           159        1.198      4.828
2.003          210             0           1.600          2.010           J84           1.166                304            792           IE6        1.462      5.022
2.009          215             0           1.900          2.115           392           1.183                iJ2            821           173        1.526      5.216
2.010          220             0           2.06c          2.220           400           1.200                560           8a0            IS0        1.590      5.410
2.011          n25             0           2.100          2.325           08            1.217                588            879           187        1.6S       5.6n
2.012         7Z 0             a           2.200          2.4*0           416           1.234                616            908           194        1.718      3.198
2.011          2Js             0           2.300          2.535           424           1.251                644            937           201        1.182      5.992
Source: MTOP and mission



- 143 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 4
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Details of the Implementation and Monitoring of the Roads Component
A.   Implementation of Works in the National Network
1.       The  execution  of  the  highway  replacement  and  rehabilitation
program would be contracted and supervised by the resnonsible directorates
in DNV's organization (Annex 2,  A  (iv)).    DNV would enhance its present
engineering and quality control capacities through the institutional
strengthening program included in the proposed project.
B.   Tmplementation Procedures for Department Maintenance Program
2.       MTOP would serve  as  intermediary  in  the technical preparation,
ece-tomic  evaluation  and  supervision   of  the  department's  maintenance
programs. Participation in the maintenance program of each department
would  be  subject  to  an  agreement  ("convenio")  between  MTOP  and the
department.
3.       The procedures for the execution  of the maintenance programs have
been agreed as follo.ws:
(a) Maintenance program of departmental roads:
Taking into consideration the area, population and present road
network of each department (Table 1), DNV selected, in accordance
with each department, specific gravel roads, totalling about
10,000 km, to receive annually routine maintenance under the
project, at an estimated average cost of US$354 equivalent per km.
Additionally, each department would carry out each year periodic
maintenance of one-fifth of the 'ength of the selected roads, at
an estimated average cost of US$3,215 equivalent per km. The
first year periodic maintenance program comprising 2,000 km has
been agreed and is satisfactory to the Bank. In addition to this
Bank financed maintenance program, the departments would carry out
maintenance of other roads related to milk and rice production
under an IDB financed program, and occasional maintenance of the
remaining road network under c;in financing.
(b) Engineering:
Wherever the programmed  works  require  engineering,  it is being
prepared by the departments with assistance from DNV. Under the
project DNV will assist the departments in upgrading their
engineering capacity.



- 144 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 4
(c) Execution of the maintenance program:
Execution of works will be accomplished mostly by force account by
the departments, relying partially on contracts for transportation
of materials.    The  technical  capacity  of  most departments is
adequate for the performance of these tasks and will be further
developed through the  technical  assistance  being provided under
the project.   In  some  more  developed  departments, part of the
periodic maintenance works  will  be  contracted.   Contracting of
such works may be increased according to results obtained. The
equipment survey carried out by DNV shows that the departments own
most of the equipment needed for the implementation of the
maintenance program. The contracts with MTOP to be signed by each
department will ensure ready availability of the equipment needed
to carry out the respective program.
(d) Supervision of works and quality control:
DNV will supervise execution of works and compliance with the
agreed  program.    DNV  would  also  assist  the  departments  in
upgrading their soils and materials laboratory facilities and
technologies to improve quality control.
(e) Payment of works executed:
After approvai by Dr-V of  thse waintenarice  w"orks cxcuted bh the
departments and submission  of  specified doculmentation, MTOP will
pay to the department the equivalent of US354 per km of routine
maintenance and the equivalent of US3,215 per km of periodic
maintenance executed. These rates will be reviewed annually and
adjusted according to new average values based on actual costs of
works executed during the previous year.
(f) Agreement between MTOP and the departments:
MTOP will enter into agreements (convenios) with each department
specifying:    Ci)  roads  to  be  maintained  under  the program;
(ii) arrangements with DNV on assistance in engineering and
execution of the program; (iii) arrangements and time schedule for
the acquisition of equipment needed for the execution of the
department's general maintenance program, and which would be also
used in the execution of the Bank financed maintenance program;
(iv) arrangements with DNV for supervision of the maintenance
program and improvement of quality control; (v) arrangements for
payments of works by MTOP to the departments and for review of the
established rates; and (vi) personnel, equipment facilities and
services to be provided by the departments and by DNV and MTOP to
comply with the requirements of  the  agreements.   A draft of the
model agreement between MTOP and the departments was reviewed and
discussed  during  negotiations.       Signing  of  a  satisfactory
agreement with at least 50Z of the departments would be a
condition for effectiveness of the loan. Two conformed copies of
each agreement would be sent to the Bank.



- 145 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 4
(g) Disbursement of the loan proceeds:
Tbre amount corresponding to the Bank's participation (30?) in the
paymnentr made by MTOP  to  the  departments, would be subsequently
withdrawn by MTOP from the Special Account at the exchange rate
gYevailing at the date of MTOP's payment. MTOP would keep all the
documentation related to these payment and to the execution of the
corresponding works for Bank review.
(h) Loan Repayents, Interest and Other Bank Charges:
MTOP would be responsible for repayment to the 'orld Bank.
'+.      At the completion of the first year maintenance program, MTOP will
be responsible for assessing the performance of each department and
recommend the level of participation in a detailed maintenance program for
the remaining period of  the  loan.    MTOP will apply guidelines developed
during the first year program as part of the maintenance and equipment
management systems analysis to present a plan for the maintenance programs
for the remaining period of the loan. If the review shows the need to
modify the list of roads to be maintained, the eligibility of the new roads
proposed should be approved by the Bank.
C.       Road Project Monitoring
5.       With regard to  project  monitoring,  the  Government will prepare
quarterly reports for the Bank providing information on: (a) the progress
of detailed engineering, bidding and contracting schedules; (b) the
progress of execution of Bank-financed replacement, rehabilitation and
maintenance works; (c) the selection, status of contracts, progress of
execution and expenditures of the proposed gravel roads programs; (d) the
status of disbursements requests; and (e) the schedule of estimated
withdrawals of the proceeds of the loan.
6.       Furthermore, in order to monitor progress on the objectives of the
proposed project, the MTOP will hold semi-annual meetings with Bank staff
around March and September of each year during project implementation to
discuss the following matters and reach agreements when noted:
(a) By September 30 of each year, MTOP will report on:
- proposed update of Five-year Highway Investment Program;
- proposed recurrent and investment budgets for the Natinnal
Highways for upcoming year including definition of additional
works (agreement);
- proposed gravel road maintenance program for the upcoming year
for each participating department (agreement);
- status of implementation of MTOP's Action Plans;
- status of each technical assistance program.



- 146 -                             ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 4
(b) by March 31 of each year, MTOP will report on:
-  actual  road   maintenance,   replacement   and  rehabilitation
expenditures of previous year;
-  actual   gravel   road   maintenance   expenditures   for  each
participating department for previous year;
- maintenance operations for DNV and each department in the
previous year;
- status of replacement, rehabilitation and maintenance budgets
for the current year;
- update of the 5 year road investment plan;
- progress reports for previous year of technical assistance
activities for maintenance management, equipment management,
soils and materials engineering, highway planning and traffic
engineering;
- use of technical assistance funds during previous and estimate
for current year;
- status of implementation of MTOP's actions plans;
-  status of road us.er charges and fuel prices;
September 1988



- 147 -
ANNEX 10
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Aide Memoire - Pre-appraisal Mission, November 1987.
2.   Aide Memoire - AppraisAl Mission, April 1988.
Consultants Reports
3.   Plan de Desarrollo a Largo Plazo para el Puerto de Montevideo, INTECSA
(Spain), December 1987.
4.   Economic Analysis of Route 1, CSI, INVIAL SENICO, VIALVR, SAE (Uruguay
and Argentina), March 1988.
5.   Feasibility Study of the Recreational Ports of Punta del Este and the
Fishing port of La Paloma, CEDEX (Spain), October 1987.
6.   Financial Evaluation of the Recreational Ports of Punta del Este and
Piriapolis and the Fishing Port of La Paloma, INYPSA (Spain), March 1988.
7.   Economic Evaluation of the Recreational Port of Piriapolis; Consultant
(Spain), November 1988.
Reports
8.   Economic Evaluation of Routes 6 and 7, DNV, AETE (Uruguay), March 1988.
9.   Evaluacion de Caminos Departamentales, MTOP, AETE (Uruguay), March 1988.
Documents
10. DNV's 1988-1995 Budgetary Projections
11. DNV Staffing
12. DNV's Technical Assistance Program
13. Base Costs Routes 6 and 7
14. Estimate of Foreign Exchange Component for Roads Civil Works
September 1988



URUGUAY
TWORT PROJCT
Db3ccI6 Nacknl de Vkdod
Orgonlzofon Chadt
DeuVkct
hl%eetmentl&  ~Road mwuobtrm
I D D4Ct BdtiO  OimdwRs Iae
Ba* adx  - 42148
{E1~~~~~~~~~~~~
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- L49 -
CHAR? II
URUGUAY
Transport Project V
Pro1ect Implementation Schedule
I
Calendar Year
Description                                                            _
1989        o 1990  1 1991  j 1992  j 1993  j 1994
A. Highwa  Program (CW)          I        I        I        I         I        I
1.  Highway Replacement      I        I    7S.I  241  |  352  I  26Z  j8S
2.  Bridge Replacement       I        I   102I   Z82        35S      222   t5S
3. Highway Rehabilitation   I         |  202  |  392        25Z  1  llS I      52
and Maintenance        i        I        I        I        I        I
I        I        I        I        i        I
4.  Bridge Rehabilitation    I        I   25Si  502      25
and Maintenance
5. Gravel Road Maintenance  | 101    202  |  202  t  202  1  20Z  j  102
B. Highway Institutional         I        I        I        I        I         I
Development Program          I        I        I        I        I         I
1.  TA Highways              I  32        51?  1  20?  i  17?  1   5?  1   4?
I        I        ,                 IH   _
2.  TA MTOP                  | 17?   j  442  1  33?        62
I            J        I        I        I 
3.  Training Highways        I 16?   1  23?  |  23?  1  23?  1  15?  I
4. Training MTOP             | 20?   1  302  1  302  |  20?  |            I
5. Equipment Highways           202       19?      20?  1  21Z  1  20?  I
C. Port Program (CW)             I        I        i        I        I         I
1. La Paloma                               1 I   262. 1  24   1  302  1  202  1  10
2.  Punta del Este           I 30?   i  302  1  20?  1 202    I 
3.  Piriapolis               I        I    5221   302  I  302  I  252  I  10?
4. Montevideo                I        I        I        I        I         I
a)  Dike                               10Z?I  30Z    10 '        202  I  102
b)  Container Terminal            I   202 1  302  1  302  11202
Improvements
c)  Remodelling Port              |  20?  j  302        30?  1  20?       102 ,
Areas              I        I        I        I        I         I
d)  Miscellaneous                      O Z 20?  I  202  202  1  202  1  20?
D. Port Equipment                I        I  242  1  28?        322  j   14?  j   2?
E.  Port Institutional
Development Program          I        I        I        I         I
1.  TA BNP                   I        I  40?  1  40?        20?  |         I
2.  TA DNH                   I                 I  502  1  502
I        I        I        I        i        I
3.  Training                 I        I  20?  |  20?  |  20?  |  20?  |,. 202



NOTES
I
I



S31ON



MAP SECTION
I



58   2   )J_' 57t'        56                    ~~          ~~                ~      ~      ~~~~~~~55'  54~  5S
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
NATIONAL HIGHWAY NETWORK
3,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
-31'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
53'se                                                                                                                            U   \ >
J | >;fiSo \ 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R A Z I L
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
-33       h.                                                                                                             33" 
BOLIVIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
32-r        )                                                                        _  s ,'              ,3
^ ~ ~ ~ ~ ' iJ                    -d Ss    /9                              \ ;
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ng IGNACI
i   fdo  _ _ > ~ ~   , ,0  <   70  8    _ 1   )   lO{<ufllo   N -   d.1 Ft,
Fa.\PARAGUAY                                                                                                            XBRAZIL
-d= ,od. R,''.o
.11               *. XO, oJ                                                                                      or/der.n;Gre /   (t  {    U>
~R P-od MeS ..yRood.
x                                                                                                             Up/-i A   rx    /    d   \   k  /  f  t/   f  / (&° e o
ARGENTINA                                              T.         8 tgoIo tm        _
!URLGUA>                                                                                        N-nim O  Cho  R fP  o 
0  so    toEeo                                       De 90PooooRodn
-   - Inemoj onoo
sr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 _5                                                       54m 
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D    t \                                           ..AGA  d- RAZ 
-)   ,                                                               =   t7er UR 223$3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ri
$ $   L. J                                                                                     rww,L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~55



\  y  X  \  AsS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cot o
33~
fTRANSPORT PROJECT 
Coo~p0DEPARTMENTAL RURAL ROADS
0                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF FLORIDA
*             ~~~~~~Rood to be o,aintoind o1e,e the pro100t
[1..  v  >  f-'                             <        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R.i Mt-'..c
D.iy f.- -o*, to he roin/d -ndo
nCNE [ONES                                                                                                    S <
t~o                 /oed                                             J                              f/(  DEARGMENTNAL UA OD
/04Q'TEV  DE                                                                                     ('    MITN NC PRGA
\                      VtJGUo  A V*/  +^ $-oIDB f- "on Fs
\  < 9 T ~ ~ 7g wsmt  4/  \  11  20
-X -§-@   MONTE)tIDEO                         (                                     r7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLOETR



SR'     ,,           J57r'\                    SSe55                                           5                       5
RdsaU-oo  ¾                                                  ~~~~~~URUGUAY
.t 511RTI0$S                                 TRANSPORT PROJECT I
-g -s ,) ,-ra _,__LA PALOMA AND PUNTA DEL ESTE
7y       K 0   X    , \ a                            PORT IMPROVEMENTS
Pra1ssi  Pa ,ls
4                                              3   Pave~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d AS-oe. Roads
--ERO -- '                             - U.sad RToad
31' ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ s..                                                        3555S5
D-Iot-ss,atoo A,p-sts
-0 ,I?                                                               4  RO t oPoststeo*o \ \   B R A  Z I L
ui  J    11                                            U               /--- '-----fC;>jf^a
-3      O     )       C       b 7I'                                                   )/)\#\o >                  1     '~1                       32-
,tcctzlo  .                                                                                              etoda',es
hAt<zvA\A11\X/s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ''    1                           - d}-l
33 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                            Z   _   ¾;  -                 X (n:.. .Rasiol Soordariss
3° i1   5?,                                                                                                                                      r v L,>  tV-rvwS J
33,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3V
3-3   AR GE NT I NA                                  ssRo095MNT>lE                           fs/n!A f,reo             o,       5      ID0     1,50
KlIOMETERS
PERU  e    
BOtlIVIA        ?                                                                         A
IR9 ARAGU-AY                                       Pli0JECT                                                      DREDGED,/7,z  TO B
,,,   ,   f                                &4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'ERS              <   D    E    D   DT
. ARGENTINA     ,                                       Q       
\            [U~~~~~LRLIGUA~Yf
LA.
U        3?0METERS 0
METERSo©                  sa
8~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~So,eAo&a                                                        0       50EER   100    1500 



IBRD 2LJ9.
SOUTH ,AMERICA
r        R A Z I L       XS*uoo l fi wlURUGUAYCO+GLI       
BRAZIL ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~URUGUAY
f -z>                               4 L   FW
-  m _s   r^"w- t                                                              TRANSPORT PROJECT I
URUGUAY                                                                                                     MONTEVIDEO PORT IMPROVEMENTS                                                                                PIE I
I R<UAY   toryFd CJPOf8bOr                                                                                                                                   If r /                          PIER 101   1  3   y~~~~~~~AUXLIAY   OEAKATE
-                               -~~~~~~~A   . .-fW                                                                                                                                                             pi,
W..h-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~.
:TSE         /     ~       7p l7 ft
,M$tido       -                                                                                                                                                                                                   I    i 0
PROJEC,                                                                                                             R
_ _ _A b_L                                                                             A            FNA |-                                                                                                         24|.-
_    a Ei.t aa P ,da,aohtl#l.d                                                       . |   -------GRRL ffEAICaROTEMlAL\    TMUTPRRO!igENAL-.         PERiSAaALE PRORUCaS _| /                                    rtl1t
O 50 100 150 200 250                                        N- RAK3L                                         6.NKl  N-OSVE  o Qok=oe       ,    ,,b           
MlETERS                              t ),   !   ,    h¢nrrhI                   OldwwaTR
-           30    W                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JJNE 9J



