Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18031
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
(LOAN 3021-UR)
JlUNE 19, 1998
Transport Cluster
Finance, Public Sector, and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit LCC7C
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 Uruguayan peso
US$1                  =       NUr$329 on March 31, 1988
US$1                  =       Ur$10.15 on March 31, 1998
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AETE                  Technical Economic Evaluation Unit
ANP                   National Port Administration
ANSE                  National Administration for Stevedore Services (non-existent)
BID                   Inter-American Development Bank
CREMA                 Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract
DNH                   National Directorate for Hydrography
DNV                   National Directorate for Roads
EFAU                  Economic and Financial Advisory Unit
JEXIM                 Export-Import Bank of Japan
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IPTI                  Transport and Infrastructure Planning Institute
MTOP                  Ministry of Transport and Public Works
SAM                   Road Maintenance Management System
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
SAT                   Traffic Management System
SIPLA                 Road Planning System
UCP                   Project Coordination Unit (MTOP)
UDP                   Technical Unit (ANP)
Vice President                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Director             Myrna Alexander
Sector Management Director              Danny Leipziger
Task Manager                            Jose Luis Irigoyen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABl,E OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...................iv
EVALUATION SUMMARY.                                                                                                v
Part L PROJECT EMPLEMENTATION ASSESSAIENT
A.       Statement of Objectives.1
B.  Achievement of Objectives .
C.      Major Factors Affecting the Project.7
D.       Project Sutainability.10
E.      Bank Performance.10
F.      Borrower Perfora ncece...
G.      Assessment of Outcome.12
H.  Future Operations ..............13
I.  Lessons Leamed ............ ..13
Part ]EL Statistical Tables
Table 1: Sumnimary of Assessment .16
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .17
Table 3: Project Timetable .is........w1
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .19
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation.20
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation.21
Table 7:     Studies included in Project     r                                                                     22
Table 8A:    Project Costs5 2
Table 8B:    Project Financing                                                                                     25
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits                                                                           26
Table 10: Status of egal Covenants .28
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .30
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Stafins ...................u                    ,30
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions.31
Appendix A: Aide Memoire for Final Supervision Mission ................................................            32
Appendix B: Borrower Summary of the Project and Sector Action Plan ................................................ 41
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the|
perfonmance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authoiozation.



iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
TRANSPORT PROJECT I
LOAN 3021-UR
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Project I in Uruguay, for which
Loan 3021-UR in the amount of US$80.8 million equivalent was approved on February 7, 1989 and made
effective on October 19, 1989. The Borrower secured additional external financing for the project from the
Export - Import Bank (EXIMBANK) of Japan., in the amount of US$73.9 million equivalent.
The original closing date was June 30, 1995, eventually extended to December 31, 1997. The Bank loan
was 99.5% disbursed, and the last disbursemert took place on May 14, 1998. The EXIMBANK loan was
68.4% disbursed (equivalent to 91.7% of the U.S. dollar equivalent amount estimated at appraisal); the
remainder, which resulted from an appreciation. of the yen during project implementation, was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Jose Luis Irigoyen (LCSFP), Maria Lucy Giraldo (LCSHD), Raul Auzmendi
(Consultant), and Albert Amos (LCSFP) and it was reviewed by Maria Victoria Lister (Quality Assurance
Support Unit, LCSFP), Asif Faiz, Sector Leader, and Myma Alexander, Country Director, LCC7C.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission in October 16, 1997. It is based
on material in the project file and discussions with the Borrower. The latter also contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by conducting an ex-post economic evaluation of sub-projects. The Borrower
provided statistical data and prepared a retrospective assessment of the project (Appendix B). Appendix B
provides a summary of actions and steps taken by the Government during project implementation to comply
with the Action Plan agreed at appraisal and negotiations.



v
EVAIUATION SUMMARY
URUGUAY: TRANSPORT PROJECT I
LOAN 3021-UR
Introduction
The project followed three previous operations in the transport sector in Uruguay, which has traditionally
been a steady, if somewhat slow executor of Bank projects. Delays in the appointments of key ministries
and agencies, deterioration in macroecononic conditions, and the lack of counterpart funds resulted in a
significant lag in project implementation. As a result, the project received an unsatisfactory rating until
1996, required three extensions, and was completed 28 months beyond the original closing date. Despite
these difficulties, the project completed nearly all of the agreed works and technical assistance programs
envisioned at appraisal.
Project Objectives
Project objectives were to support the GOlJ in instituting legal and institutional reforms in the transport
sector, with an emphasis on improving ser-ice provision by the Ministry of Transport and Public Works
(MTOP), the Directorates for Roads (DNV) and for Hydrography (DNH), and the National Port
Administration (ANP). Specifically, the project was intended to: (i) strengthen managerial and planning
capabilities throughout the sector; (ii) increase competition and private sector participation (iii) improve
cost recovery and operating efficiency; Ead (iv) provide support for high priority investments for
rehabilitation, construction and maintenance of roads and ports.
Implementation experience and results
The project was characterized by severe delays, especially in the first half of project execution. By mid-
1995, the original closing date, less than two-thirds of the Bank loan had been disbursed. Despite these
delays, the GOU completed the civil works (road and port subsectors) and technical assistance programs
designed at appraisal, both of which appear to be sustainable. The external factors that had a significant
impact on project implementation were: (i) changes in governments in 1992 and 1995; (ii) deterioration in
macroeconomic conditions, which led to tight fiscal policies and the limited availability of counterpart
funds; (iii) delays in approving legal and institutional reforms in ports and roads. The following factors
relating to deficiencies in project design resulted in additional delays but did not affect the project scope: (i)
a complex multimodal approach; (ii) submission of preliminary engineering designs for port works during
appraisal; (iii) insufficient coordination between the Bank and JEXIM; (iv) differences in the procurement
practices used by the Bank and Borrower. I'he project was amended three times and ended 28 months later
than anticipated at appraisal.
Following the inauguration of the Sanguinetti administration in March 1995, and the improved availability
of counterpart funds, project execution improved significantly. The Departmental road maintenance
program and the ports component were cormpleted in a satisfactory and sustainable manner. The following
physical targets were achieved: (a) improved loading and container terminal facilities in Dock No. 8 in the
Montevideo Port; (b) construction of small. craft berths at the Punta del Este and capacity increases at
Piriapolis port; (c) construction of about 70 km of primary roads (reduced from 149 km as a result of the
first project Amendment); (d) rehabilitation of 7 bridges; (e) rehabilitation and maintenance of 470 km of
primary roads; (f) maintenance of 10,000 km of Departmental roads;



vi
Ports. The project supported major reforms in the Montevideo Port through key infrastructure
improvements and technical assistance. ANP reform, which started in 1992, involved the outsourcing of
major port operations, e.g. container handling, tugboat-services, loading, unloading, and internal movement
of general cargo, passenger handling and equipment services. ANP reduced its staff from 4,400 employees
in 1992 to 1,350 employees in 1997. Port traffic increased by 120 percent, container traffic by 100 percent,
and passenger volume by 300 percent. ANP instituted a 16% reduction in import tariffs, further improving
the competitive position of the Montevideo Port. Labor strikes, frequent before the reform, have not
occurred since 1992. In a survey of port users, 72% expressed satisfaction with present port operations.
Roads. The early success in ports was essential in gaining commitment for the on-going reform in the roads
subsector. In 1988, the year the project was appraised, the total Departmental gravel road network was
about 20,000 km, with only 35 percent in good condition. By December 1997, the length of the gravel road
network increased to about 32,000 km with 79 percent in good condition. For the primary road network
managed by DNV, the main objective of the reforms was outsourcing of road operations and maintenance
to microenterprises, concessioning of main highways to private operators to finance and manage new road
investments, and review of road-user charges. DNV has reduced its work force from a total of 3,700
employees in March 1995 to 2,400 employees by late-1997. In a pilot project, DNV awarded three
contracts to microenterprises formed by ex-DNV staff to carry out routine maintenance of 285 km of
national roads and 422 km of signs and markings. Early results support the use of microenterprises, which
provide better service quality than average force account operations, and at a much lower cost.
Institutional Strengthening. Although the institutional strengthening component has demonstrated
improvement in recent years, overall results have been mixed. The project supported the improvement of
operations within DNV through a variety of technical assistance programs. The Maintenance Management
System (MMS) has become a valuable tool for the systematic monitoring of performance standards and
resource use by DNV's ten maintenance districts. The project financed a traffic systems management
study, resulting in the design of two innovative outsourcing schemes: (i) collection and processing of traffic
data; and (ii) control of truck overloading on the national road network. A review of road-user charges,
which delineated critical elements for improving financial sustainability and increasing user accountability,
was also carried out under the project.
Bank Performance
The project addressed major investment needs and supported institutional strengthening programs in the
transport sector. The following factors related to project design slowed implementation: (i) overly
optimistic projections; (ii) the lack of performance indicators for monitoring implementation progress; (iii)
inadequate risk mitigation strategies; and (v) an overly complex multimodal strategy. Disagreements in
procurement practices between the Bank and the Borrower, and insufficient coordination between the Bank
and JEXIM led to further implementation delays. Nevertheless, the decision to amend the closing date three
times and extend project implementation by 28 months was appropriate and justified. Bank supervision
was critical in supporting the transport sector reforms and completion of the physical works and
institutional strengthening initiatives.
Borrower Performance
Uruguay has been a steady, if slow executor of Bank projects. Initial delays were manifested during the
establishment of a new legal framework and institutional structure for the transport sector. Once these
reforms were in place, GOU was diligent in assessing critical implementation and personnel needs. The
rapid and impressive reform of ANP achieved significant improvements in port operations without major



vii
labor disturbances. Road contraction and maintenance works have been completed and the DNV reform
has increased private participation in roads. Finally, progress and audit reports were produced in an
acceptable though belated manner and compliance with loan covenants was satisfactory.
Summary of Findings
Overall project outcome is considered to be satisfactory. The majority of the sector policy objectives and
physical works were achieved in an adequate manner and appear to be sustainable. The project contributed
positively to the delineation and implementation of transport reforms. Passage of the 1992 Port Law
represented a major change in managing port activities, especially in the Port of Montevideo. MTOP
reforms led to internal restructuring, improved resource allocation, consolidation of key activities, and
reduction in personnel. Although the MTOP institutional strengthening program was only partially
implemented, technical assistance prograrns for ANP, DNV, and the departments have been successful.
Future Operations
Improvements in intermodal transport coordination are being supported by the ongoing Forestry Products
Transport Project (Ln. 4204-UR), which is using an integrated approach for the transport of forest
products. This project also supports the continuation of the Departmental road maintenance program  A
proposed Transport II Project, scheduled for FY99, is intended to: (i) support the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the primary road network and restoration of bridges; (ii) increase private sector
participation in road maintenance through performance-based contracts; (iii) strengthen road sector
management at DNV through further restructuring of its organization and work processes; and (iv) assist in
technology transfer to the Departments to support the maintenance of gravel road networks.
Lessons Learned
The following lessons emerge from the implementation of this project:
Mobilizing Support for Reform. Mobilizing support from affected parties within a given institutional
structure is critical to ensure the effectiveness of reforms. The reforms in MTOP and ANP required
restructuring of the management, while maintaining frequent contacts with key actors, obtaining timely
feedback, and producing early results. Potential complaints from ANP employees were avoided through
well-designed social compensation packages. The early success in port reforms was essential to gain
commitment for the more difficult reform agenda in the roads sector. DNV substantially reduced personnel
through outsourcing road maintenance activities to microenterprises started by former staff. The quality of
maintenance done by the mnicroenterprises was found to be better with a cost saving of about 20 percent.
Phasing-In Institutional Development Plrograms. The institutional restructuring components of projects
and broader reform programs have often. fallen short of achieving their objectives due to: (i) changes in
administration or top sector management, that often deprive reform programs of the necessary leadership
and; (ii) the scope and timetable of refonns being incompatible with the existing political environment and
institutional capacity. These risks can be minimized when project implementation is aligned with the
country's political cycle and sector development plans, and there is a "champion" to coordinate institutional
strengthening programs. It is also necessary to gradually build consensus for institutional reforms through
a phased-approach that limits the scope of policy reforms to a few but essential issues.
Multimodal Project Design. Optimizing the transportation system is the main rationale for a multimodal
approach. Elimination of the railways component at project appraisal deprived the project from addressing



viii
issues common to all transport subsectors, while the multimodal approach adopted brought unnecessary
complexities to project management, implementation, and supervision. Before entering into a complex
multimodal project, the merits of such approach should be carefully assessed against the risk of having
certain components lag due to ineffective modal coordination. There are situations, however where a
multimodal approach may be warranted e.g. limited project objectives, policy coordination, or the
movement of major commodities through the transport chain.
Technical Support for the Executing Agency. Although these activities are now all standard practice, the
following elements would have facilitated project implementation: (i) a project launch exercise to build
consensus in the early stages of implementation; (ii) an operational manual to guide the executing agency;
(iii) performance indicators; (iii) training of Borrower staff in e Bank's procurement, audit, and
disbursement policies and procedures, and (iv) incorporating stakeholder participation in project design.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
LOAN 3021-UR
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.     The project was designed as a sector operation with strong policy-based objectives to be achieved
through institutional development Action Plans for the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP)l
and the National Port Administration (ANP), and the financing of high priority investments in roads and
ports. The project specific objectives were to: (i) reorganize the ports subsector, including the redefinition
of functions and responsibilities for planning, construction, maintenance and operation of the ports; (ii)
stimulate private sector involvement and competition in the ports subsector; (iii) improve transport
regulations and cost recovery in ports and roads; (iv) strengthen managerial and planning capabilities
throughout the road subsector, including departmental roads; and (v) support the rehabilitation, capacity
expansion and maintenance of road and port infrastructure.
2.     These objectives were consistent with G3overnment's and Bank's objectives in the transport sector.
Project design, however, proved difficult to implement in the environment created by the changeover of
administrations and the deterioration of macroeconomic conditions in Uruguay. The multimodal approach
in project design involved several implementing agencies, which created problems in coordination, and
relied on action plans that were too broad and aunbitious for the conditions at implementation.2 Additional
coordination difficulties were in connection with the Japan Eximbank (JEXIM), which cofinanced the
project. Despite these difficulties, the project completed nearly all of its revised investment and institutional
strengthening objectives, thereby confinning the assessment made in the latest CAS that Uruguay has
traditionally been a steady but slow executor o±i Bank projects.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.     General project objectives remained unchanged and relevant throughout the long implementation
period. Project scope was restructured to reduce the burden on government counterpart funds and better
respond to changes in government priorities, sector policies, and the specific needs of the institutional
reforms in the transport sector. Although the project was amended three times and closed 28 months later
than anticipated at appraisal, the project completed nearly all of the revised works and technical assistance
programs despite the transitional and coordination difficulties experienced during implementation.
Amendments to the project eliminated small-scale port projects, reduced construction of Route 1, added
construction of 7 bridges and maintenance of 470 km of the national roads. The completion of planned
I  Including the Directorates of Highways (DNV) and Hydrography (DNH).
2  The following Bank Loan is the ongoing Forest Products Transport Project (Loan 4204-UR) which is a intermodal as it includes roads, ports and
railways. This project was conceived as a transport system for one conmmodity forest products, and as such is essential to consider all relevant
modes, concurrently. This approach differs from the methodology used in the Transport I Project (Loan 3021 -UR) where the goals in the
various subsectors were not interconmected.



2
construction works for Route 1 is expected to be undertaken by the private sector, which should provide
increased efficiencies.
4.     With project funds, the following physical targets were achieved: (a) construction of about 70 km
of primary roads (reduced from 149 km as a result of the first project Amendment) (b) construction of 7
bridges; (c) rehabilitation and maintenance of 470 km of primary roads; (d) maintenance of about 10,000
km of selected gravel roads in participating departments, as contemplated at appraisal; (e) remodeled
loading and container terminal areas in Dock No. 8 in the Montevideo Port, consistent with appraisal; and
(f) two small craft berths at the Punta del Este port, and capacity increases at Piriapolis port. Investment in
infrastructure facilities and the renewed focus on road rehabilitation and maintenance, sustained by the
introduction of private sector participation, has contributed to a reduction in transport costs. Road
conditions in the departments have also improved substantially due to the development and continuation of
a maintenance program for the core gravel road network.
5.     The project was also able to complete nearly all of the institutional strengthening initiatives for
ports, and undertake the roads technical assistance programs and studies. Overall results of the institutional
strengthening programs were satisfactory, although a number of initiatives were either completed too late to
adequately measure their outcome, reduced in scope, or adjusted to reflect emerging priorities. The
institutional reforms for ANP was successful, and served as a major tool to facilitate the port reform
program. In particular, the cost and ship operation time in the Port of Montevideo have drastically
improved. The results of the MTOP Action Plan were acceptable for DNV, but within MTOP the results
have been mixed as a number of consultants were contracted too late to fully measure the intended benefits
from the technical assistance programs. Programs considered to have been successful related to revising
transport related laws and regulations, implementing road planning and maintenance management systems,
designing traffic data collection and truck overloading control systems, and reviewing the system of road-
user charges. The project financed two studies not included at appraisal stage: (i) a logistics and economic
study for the transport of forest products, which led to the preparation of the Forest Products Transport
Project (Loan 4204-UR); and (ii) feasibility, risk analysis, and other preparatory studies to explore the
financial feasibility of the Buenos Aires-Colonia Bridge through a concessioning arrangement. Partial but
important achievements were also attained in strengthening road maintenance capacity of the department.
6.     Restructuring the Port of Montevideo. The project supported major reforms in the Port of
Montevideo, Uruguay's main gateway to the rest of the world, through key infrastructure improvements
and a technical assistance program tailored to the specific needs of the reform program. ANP reform
started in 1992, three years into project implementation. The purpose of the reform was to convert ANP
from an inefficient port operator into a port owner, which would outsource all major operations to the
private sector. Major examples of private sector participation include container handling, operation of
tugboat-services, loading, unloading, and internal movement of general cargo, passenger handling and
equipment services.3 One important indicator of the scope of this privatization effort is that ANP was able
to reduce its staff from 4,400 employees in 1992 to 1,350 employees in 1998. The results have been
impressive as noted by the performance indicators listed in Table 1. Since the port reform started in 1992,
dock throughput measured as average cargo moved per hour in operation increased by 270%, and ship
staying time was cut down by 34%. As a result of these cost reductions, ANP reviewed the port tariff
regime and applied an initial reduction of 16% in import tariff rates, further improving the competitive
position of the Port of Montevideo. Further reductions are currently being implemented. Port traffic has
increased by 120%, container traffic by 100%, and passenger volume by 300%. This performance was
3  Dredging is an important activity that is in the process of being contracted out to the private sector. This action would reduce annual
expenditures by US$S5-7 million.



3
achieved despite a 31% reduction of ANP personmel from 1988 levels, the year the project was appraised.
Moreover, labor strikes, which were frequent before the reform and had absorbed an average 20% of
working time, have not occurred since March 19, 1992.
7.       ANP reform was supported by two technical assistance packages supported by this project and by
the Public Enterprise Reform Loan (3517-UR). The technical assistance program under Loan 3021-UR
was adjusted during project implementation to address the evolving needs of the reform program. Major
contributions by the project to the port reform program included: (i) creating a Port Information and
Studies Center; (ii) strengthening Port Financial Management Systems; (iii) improving cost recovery and
operational efficiency; (iv) strengthening investment planning; (v) establishing resource inventories; and
(vi) supporting management training programs. The revised Port Master Plan, a major, on-going study to
adapt the Port of Montevideo to the new policy of increased private sector participation, is being financed
by ANP Consultants, which were not hired until July 1997 due to procurement delays. Preliminary
findings will become available by mid-1998.
Table 1. Performance Indicators for the Port of Montevideo (1988-1996)
INDICATORS                1988             1992            1994             1995              1996
Ship numbers                 1.00             0.98            1.30             1.38              1.41
Port traffic                 1.00             1.21)           2.10             2.45             2.59
Containers                   1.00             1.95            3.14             4.34             3.75
Passengers                   1.00             1.1 4           4.68            4.56              4.62
Dock occupancy               1.00             0.75            0.62             0.50             0.48
Ship staying time            1.00             0.715           0.49            0.37              0.34
ANP personnel                1.00             0.58            0.43             0.39             0.31
Ave. ANP cost                1.00             1.06            0.55             0.54              0.59
Dock Throughput              1.00             1.46            3.32             4.88             5.42
8.       The core of the reform process was completed in about five months, without significant social and
union problems. 4 This result is especially remarkable for a country where the population has typically
opposed structural reform efforts. A critical factor for success of the reform was frequent contact with all
the main actors to test and eventually adjust the reform processes as needed. This significant reduction in
personnel was complemented with an in-depth reorganization of ANP, which facilitated communications
among the different hierarchies of the agency. Of the 160 managers who held positions in ANP prior to the
restructuring, only 10 remained.5
9.       The findings of two surveys performed by a specialized consultant firm in October 1997 confirmed
the success of the reform. The first survey assessed the social and occupational impacts of the program by
measuring the use of incentives for encouraging personnel retirement. The sample interview responses from
4   The Port Law, which was the basis for the reform, was approved on April 8, 1992, and became effective less than a month later, on May 4, 1992.
The port reform was launched on June 23, 1992, when 800 persons voluntary left ANP. A few months later, another 700 resigned. Finally, the
Regulation ofthe Law of Port Operators was approved on September 7, 1992.
5    The reduction of ANP's personnel was the most politically sensitive aspect ofthe whole process. It was based on the Law of Reform ofthe State,
number 16,197, passed in 1990. It allowed the establishmenat of an incentive program to encourage public employees to leave their jobs. ANP's
program was based on a special compensation of 6 month salaries for its public employees which had the right of retirement, and 12 salaries for
the rest. The latter was later increased to 18 salaries to speed up the reduction in the personnel. In particular, workers ofthe National
Administration for Stevedore Services (ANSE) were offered 24 salaries and with the sole exception of one worker, they all left overnight on
July 22, 1992, being replaced the following day by private operators. The severance program was entirely financed by ANP. A training
program was used to prepare the retirees to handle the requirements of likely new assignments.



4
120 ex-ANP employees revealed that 54 percent found themselves in better financial terms as compared to
when they were with ANP, 12 percent were indifferent, and 34 percent felt worse off.6 Overall, 67 percent
indicated that they were satisfied with their current situation as when working with ANP. The results are
encouraging for future privatization efforts. The second survey assessed port-user satisfaction with the
services provided after the reform. A sample of 120 responses obtained from maritime agencies, operators,
importers/exporters, found that 67 percent of interviewees expressed satisfaction with the delivery of port
services.7 Privatization and concession of services were identified as the most important aspects of the
reform. It was also encouraging fact that 72% declared greater satisfaction with present port operations as
compared to pre-reform conditions.
10.     Improving Departmental Road Maintenance. The project included a component to finance
annual routine maintenance programs over the project period for a maximum of 10,000 km of selected
gravel roads in participating departments, and annual periodic maintenance programs on about 2,000 km of
gravel roads. With the exception of Montevideo, all departments in the country participated in the
program. Before appraisal, MTOP purchased road maintenance equipment using a loan from Banco de la
Repiiblica, and distributed this equipment to the departments. In 1988, the total gravel road network of
department roads in the country had an inventoried length of about 20,000 km, of which roughly 35 percent
were in good condition.8 As of December 1997, the total length of the gravel road network was about
32,000 km, of which about 79 percent was in good condition. This amount represents an impressive
improvement since project appraisal. An economic analysis of the Departmental Road Maintenance
Program yielded a net present value of US$211.0 million.9 The economic analysis suggested that a more
flexible maintenance which varies program gradings and regravelling frequencies as a function of road
class, would yield higher economic benefits without increases in funding. This approach will be used in
upcoming Bank operations. 1°
11.     This component was originally conceived as a five-year program, but in view of its satisfactory
results, the program was resumed in 1996 and will supported by future Bank projects in Uruguay. The
program introduced a maintenance culture in a subsector, which practically did not exist, at least in many
of the departments. The annual number of kilometers financed by the program in each department was
determined by the size of the road network, population, and total area. These initial allocations were revised
up or down (or even canceled) in September of each year and the available funds were reassigned based on
the achievement of performance targets for each department agreed under their respective programs.
Performance targets were raised in succeeding years-from a 60 percent average in 1989 to about 95
percent in 1997-which demonstrated that the Intendencias had responded well to the incentives built into
the program and close monitoring by DNV. Program results were uneven in the first years of the project
but improved as implementation progressed. Overall compliance increased, while the need to reallocate
resources among departments diminished drastically. DNV engineers supervised the quality of completed
6   About 75% ofthe employees interviewed had left the organization between 1992 - 1994, the peak ofthe restruectring programrL The majority of
the interviewed retirees (63% of the sample) had received 18 salaries as incentive. About 72% found new jobs; from the remaining 28%
unemployed, 64% indicated that they had retired, so actual unemployment is about 10% ofthe sample roughly equivalent to the national
unemployment rate). About 87% indicated they did not require further training to obtain a new job.
7 The sample consisted of 44% of maritime agencies and operators and 56% of importers and exporters. Interviewed users indicated the following
reasons for their satisfaction: about 52% because services and operations have improved, 10% because services were privatized, 2% because
infrastructure has been improved, and 3% other.
a   Nevertheless, the SAR recognized that even this estimate appeared overly optimistic
9   The results of this econornic analysis were not incorporated in the overall analysis for the project cited in paragraph 19 and in Part IL Section 9.
10 The ongoing Forestry Products Transport Project (Loan 4204-UR) continued support ofthe program in 1997, and the proposed Second
Transport Project under preparation would extend Bank support between 1998-2000.



5
works, mostly by force account but in some cases by contractors, and approved money transfers. Some
departments are applying similar measures in their own maintenance programs. Program design has
continued to improve throughout the years by building on the experience gained. "
12.    The project also provided direct technical assistance to the departments. The TA program
successfully built up technical capabilities, estalblished road laboratories for systematic quality control of
materials and works, and improved maintenance programming, execution and control. However, the
expected transfer of technology from DNV to thie departmental technical units was only partially achieved,
because this ambitious program had to be scaled down due to constraints in counterpart funds and turnover
in departmental staff hampered continuity. Currently, the program is maintained by the direct supervision
from a specialized unit in DNV comprising ten engineers. In future operations, emphasis should be placed
on the graduation of some departments, to free scarce human resources in DNV.
13.    Strengthening Management and Planiing in DNV. Although less dramatic than the reforms in
the port subsector, with the induction of the new government, DNV embarked in 1995 on a gradual yet
substantial restructuring of its organization and its business processes to become more oriented toward
performance and results. Previously, DNV's lowv-productivity workforce planned, executed and controlled
all routine maintenance, and a significant portion of periodic maintenance activities. Overstaffing
overburdened DNV's maintenance budget as cklse to 70 percent was used to cover personnel and
administrative costs. This situation left DNV with little room to respond to periodic surges in maintenance
and rehabilitation needs of an aging road network, which was compounded by the shortage of funds
stemnming from tightened fiscal policies of the. early 1990s. These factors resulted in maintenance neglect
and substantial deterioration of the national road network. The percentage of roads in poor condition
increased from 10 percent in 1990 to 44 percent: in 1996. In recent years, MTOP halted this deterioration
trend by increasing the level of funding for rehalbilitation and periodic maintenance, giving priority to heavy
traffic roads. The main tenets of DNV's reform agenda involve: (i) shifting the primary role of DNV from
execution to planning and management of operations; (ii) reducing in-house operations through outsourcing
of services; (iii) concessioning of roads to private operators to finance and manage new road investments;
(iv) reviewing the system of road-user charges to explore the feasibility of more efficient, cost-recovery
mechanisms for collection and allocation charges among administrative levels and vehicle types, and
assuring stable funding; and (v) arresting deterioration of road infrastructure by increasing investments in
rehabilitation and maintenance of the core road network.
14.    This on-going reorganization has enabled DNV to increase the efficiency of maintenance
operations carried out by force account that will. gradually be replaced by private sector contracts. In line
with this agenda, DNV reduced its workforce from about 3,700 employees in 1995 to about 2,400
employees in late 1997, and is planning further reductions to about 1,800 employees by the end of the
century. 12 DNV began implementation of a pilot program to contract out maintenance activities. Three
microenterprises formed by ex-DNV staff were awarded contracts to carry out the routine maintenance for
285 km of national roads and 422 km of signs and lane markings. The microenterprises operate primarily
in the Northern part of the country with nine finns currently in operation-three in Durazno, two in
Florida, and one in Rivera, Canelones, Paysandia and Lascano-and typically comprise 0 to 15 former
Exarmples are the adjustments introduced to reflect local conditions in unit costs and construction of drainage structures to preserve road
conditions.
12 The legal framework for staff retrenchment is the Law for Reform of the State of 1990, already mentioned in connection with ANP's reformL
The Law allows payment of an incentive (equivalent to about 24 salaries in the case of DNV) to induce voluntary retirements. However
anotha incentive, peculiar to DNV, was the option for former DNV staffto establish microenterprises to undertake maintenance contracts.



6
DNV employees. 13 The microenterprises procured basic equipment units taking advantage of special credit
lines, and technical assistance from DNV engineers, as needed. Direct contracting is permitted for two
years, with an option to extend services for additional period, if performance is satisfactory. After this
initial grace period, microenterprises will compete directly for contracts in the same manner as other private
contractors. In a preliminary assessment, DNV concluded that microenterprise contracts were less
expensive than average force account operations and road quality was better. Interestingly, the former
DNV employees are doing the same work, but performance has improved substantially under the strong
financial incentives provided by the flexible private sector environment and competition for contracts
15.    The project contributed to improved operations within DNV through a variety of technical
assistance programs. First, the Maintenance Management System (MMS), has become a valuable tool for
the systematic monitoring of performance standards and resource use by DNV's ten maintenance districts.
In addition to increased accountability, the program provides good examples of how field districts can
improve works programming and resource use as well as raise productivity in road maintenance operations.
Second, the project financed a traffic management system study, resulting in the design of two innovative
outsourcing schemes: (i) collection and processing of traffic data; and (ii) control of truck overloading on
the national road network. DNV awarded two long-term contracts for these services. Third, the project is
financing a Road Planning System study, which is evaluating DNV information systems and planning tools,
in order to upgrade methodologies and develop an integrated "system" for supporting management
decisions. Due to long delays in recruiting consultants, this study is still under execution.
16.    The project also supported the development of a study on Uruguay's road-user charges system,
which delineated the critical elements for ensuring financial sustainability in the sector and increasing
accountability among users, e.g. better connecting road usage with economic costs. The study concluded
that: (i) total revenue from user charges exceeds road maintenance expenditures by a factor of three; and
(ii) each vehicle category contributes revenue in excess of its marginal contribution to maintenance needs.
This situation is rarely achieved. In principle no subsidies are implied under the current structure of road-
user charges, but imbalances among different vehicle categories, levels of government and the amount of
excess revenues makes the road sector an important contributor to the government's general revenue fund
and has raised concerns regarding the competitiveness of the Uruguayan road transport relative to the rest
of Mercosur. Lastly, databases and analytical tools, developed through the study and installed in the
Transport and Infrastructure Planning Institute (IPTI), have analyzed the economic impact of reform, e.g.
fiscal policies, sector contributions as part of government revenues, design of improved intergovernmental
transfers, and impact of reform on the competitiveness of Uruguayan products and transport operators in
relation to Mercosur.
17.    The project funded a recently concluded economic impact and financial feasibility study in support
of the development of a bridge crossing between Buenos Aires and Colonia, Uruguay. An independent
commission comprised of both governments is responsible for the development of the project (estimated
total cost of US$0.8 to US$1.0 billion). The study assessed the economic and financial feasibility, demand
and risk analyses, traffic forecasts, tariffs setting policies, and environmental impact of the proposed
project. The Buenos Aires-Colonia Bridge is expected to be financed, owned and operated by private sector
through a long-term concession agreement. Implementation and presentation of the final results was delayed
as a result of the complexity of a project of this size, and the need to build consensus among the two
governments regarding certain aspects of project design. The Bank is assisting the binational commission in
is At resignation, each employee received 24 salaries that represented roughly US$12,000 per employee, and a bonus, which increasedtotal
severance per employee to about US$20,000. Assuming former employees invest about half ofthat amount in the microenterprise, the total
accumulated capital forthe enterprise would beonthe order of about US$150,000



7
the supervision of these studies. In particular, the Bank established a special team of Bank staff with the
appropriate skills needed for oversight of a study of this magnitude and complexity .This effort has
advanced the state of the art related to traffic demand estimation and economic/financial analysis of green
field mega-projects with international and regional impacts.
18.   DNV is expanding contract maintenance under an IDB-supported project and the proposed Second
Transport Project with the Bank. By the year 2000, the goal is to have at least 50% of the primary road
network, basically the area south of the River Negro, maintained by private contractors. This objective can
be achieved by: (i) concessioning to private operaLtors a major corridor of about 500 km that stretches from
Colonia to Chuy on the border with Brazil, along Routes 1 and 9; (ii) awarding five-year contracts for the
rehabilitation and routine maintenance of specific; portions of the road network. The contractor would be
paid on the basis of compliance with performance standards specified in the contracts; and (iii) contracting
maintenance of other specified roads to microenterprises, (run by former DNV personnel), who would also
be paid based on compliance with stipulated service levels.
19.   Economic Evaluation The Borrower conducted an ex-post economic evaluation of project
components, including Route 1 improvements and works undertaken in Montevideo, rehabilitation and
repaving of seven bridges and 646 km of primary' roads, and the Punta del Este and Piriapolis ports. These
works accounted for a total investment of US$214.0 million at 1996 prices, or about 97% of the total
project cost (Part II, Table 9), a project NPV of US$54.2 million, and internal rates of return ranging from
14 percent (Route 1) to 28 percent (port of Montevideo). Although satisfactory, the economic indicators
were lower than appraisal estimates due to the use of more conservative assumptions in the ex-post analysis
and the longer construction periods. Analytical difficulties arose due to: (i) the recent inauguration of the
works in the port of Piriapolis, December 12, 1997, which provided limited information in respect to
subproject benefits, and operating and maintenance costs; and (ii) the major port reforms in Montevideo
drastically changed its modus operandi, and consequently, an ex-ante analysis presents a number of
shortcomings. For roads, the analysis was based on the application of the Bank's HDM-III model. For the
Piriapolis port component, due to the above-mentioned lack of actual information, relevant values actually
registered in Punta del Este were conservatively extrapolated to provide a basis for the ex-post analysis.
With respect to the ANP component, the economiic analysis compared actual cost values with updated ex-
post benefits..
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THIE PROJECT
20.    Several factors had a significant impact on project execution, causing severe and unnecessary
implementation delays. In the first three years after effectiveness, almost no progress had been achieved.
Despite this delay, the completed works fulfilled the overall objectives of the project and appear to be
sustainable. A number of external factors had a strong impact on the project implementation. These factors
include: (i) disruption in project implementation caused by the changeover in governments; (ii) deterioration
of macroeconomic conditions, which led to tight liscal policies and held up counterpart funding; and (iii)
delays in approving legal frameworks for privatization and reduction of the size of the State. In addition to
extending the life of the project by 28 months, project components were restructured to meet new priorities
caused by these contingencies. In addition, the following lessor factors relating to deficiencies in project
design, and poor understanding of the Bank's operational guidelines created additional delays but did not
impact on project scope: (i) the complexity of the multimodal approach; (ii) submission of preliminary
engineering designs for port works during appraisal; (iii) insufficient coordination between the Bank and
JEXIM, the project cofinancing institution; and (iv) differences in legal interpretations and practices
between the Bank and the executing agency in undertaking the procurement of works and goods. However,



8
once MTOP was able to allocate the necessary funds to complete the project, the pace of implementation
increased dramatically after 1995.
21.    Presidential Elections and New Administration. The project became effective on October 19,
1989, and Presidential Elections were held the following month. The results favored the opposition party,
which led to the election of a new Administration and significant policy changes. The winning party did not
have a majority in Congress, further complicating the situation. The project was appraised, negotiated and
approved with one Government and implemented by another that was largely unaware of the details of the
lending operation and was unfamiliar with Bank procedures. The new administration delayed appointing
key posts like the President of ANP and the Directors of DNV and DNH, until the end of 1990, over one
year after project effectiveness. Uncertainty and the lack of major decisions characterized this period.
22.    Availability of Counterpart Funds. Availability of local counterpart funds has been a difficulty
in previous Bank projects in Uruguay, and was a major problem during the first half of implementation.
Government financing strategy for the sector was set in its Five-Year Investment Plan, prepared at the
beginning of each administration and approved by Congress. In 1990, the incoming Administration
imposed severe investment ceilings to address a deterioration in macroeconomics conditions. 14 This policy
reduced MTOP 's budget to less than half of the amount requested. At the time of project appraisal, a major
fiscal crisis affected the Uruguayan Government, which stopped or slowed down road works financed
under the previous loan 2238-UR. The Five-Year Plan for 1991-1995 was scaled down in line with the
deterioration of the fiscal situation, and the DNV was forced to abridge the capacity expansion program,
which became too large for the fiscal crisis. These factors impacted negatively on the response from
international firms in tendering bids. During this period, progress in project implementation was extremely
slow. Since 1995, the GOU assigned high priority in arresting the deterioration of the national road
network. The current administration has adhered to a five-year budget program, which reduced the
volatility in the availability of funds for the sector, and counterpart funds to externally funded projects.
23.   Institutional Reform in the Transport Sector. Within this context, it is not surprising that the
legal and administrative actions required to support major institutional reforms took longer than expected.
The approval of sensitive laws related to the reform and reduction of the role of the State, and, in
particular, the privatization of the Port of Montevideo required endless Congressional discussions and long
approval processes. Institutional reforms in MTOP and delays in defining the planning unit in MTOP,
while appropriate, in itself, caused further project delays.
24.    The Govemment's policy, and one of the main project objectives, is to intensify private sector
participation in DNV, through the execution of diversified activities such as detailed engineering, project
supervision, supporting studies, controlling road related activities, such as traffic counts and axle-loading,
and carrying out road rehabilitation, periodic and routine maintenance works. The long-run goal is to
maintain DNV as the administrator of the primary road network, while maintaining responsibility for: (i)
general planning of the network and related procurement actions; (ii) acting as the principal counterpart for
intemational credit organizations; (iii) conducting research studies; (iv) providing technical assistance
support and transfer of technology to, inter alia, the departments; (v) executing emergency works; and (vi)
executing jobs in areas whose peculiar characteristics do not attract enough interest from private
contractors. The objectives of the latter two items are to assure quick response to unexpected emergency
demands, and maintaining market prices within reasonable limits, respectively
14  Inflation in 1988 had reached a 69%, and, as a result, the Government decided to reduce public spending.



9
25.    Complex Multimodal Approach. The project was originally designed to include roads, ports and
railways. At project appraisal, the Governmient of Uruguay was involved in major railways reform,
especially the politically-sensitive decision to cancel passenger service. To avoid the impression that this
reform was imposed by the Bank and a likely political backlash, the Government decided to exclude
railways from the project. The original idea of including three transport modes in one project was sensible
as several issues tend to overlap. These considerations include tariff policy, cost minimization of surface
transport, intermodal competition, coordinaltion of surface traffic arriving at ports and rail stations, and
optimization of the transport system. Without the participation of railways in the project, little benefit was
achieved in keeping within one operation both ports and roads. On the contrary, coordination,
administrative and communications problems between the agencies, MTOP and ANP becarne evident.
Moreover, the first multimodal supervision :mission by the Bank, with simultaneous presence of both road
and port experts did not take place until October 1991, more than two and a half years after the Loan was
signed.'6 In retrospect, it would have been better to design and implement two independent, separate
projects, one for roads, and the other for ports.
26.    Preliminary Engineering Plans for Ports. The port components for ANP and for the port of
Piriapolis under DNH did not have detailed engineering plans, ready to call for bids, at the time the loan
was approved. SAR cost estimates for ports were based on preliminary engineering studies for civil works
on all items, except for port works at Punta del Este. The preparation of completed engineering studies
would have likely prevented delays. The cornpletion of these studies could have been made condition for
effectiveness. In contrast, final design for road works were ready at negotiations.
27.    Bank and JEXIM  Cofinancing. At the project closing date, the JEXIMBANK loan was 91.7
percent or (US$67.8 million) disbursed of the dollar equivalent estimated at appraisal (US$73.9 million).
As the loan was being disbursed, fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate led to an appreciation of the
loan amount by close to 30 percent, and consequently, only 68.4 percent of the appreciated amount was
disbursed. In addition, there were delays were due to coordination and communication problems between
the two international credit agencies. For example, when the project was approaching the project closing
date, the rules of both institutions varied with respect to replenishment of special accounts. The Bank
started with a partial replenishment, which JEXIM did not accept. As a result, JEXIM disbursements were
suspended and delayed for about 9 months, causing penalties to the Borrower.
28.    Procurement Delays. Differences in interpretation between the Bank's procurement practices and
the legal code for undertaking civil works and hiring consultants in Uruguay led to significant delays in
project implementation. Although now standard practice as part of the Bank's lending operations, training
workshops for counterpart staff would have likely minimized delays of this type and improved coordination
between the Bank and the GOU. In addition, the accepted practice of using standard bidding documentation
would have likely avoided delays stemming from protracted reviews of procurement documents and
decisions. The project provided technical assistance to improve general management and oversight of goods
procurement and consultant contracts and supported the installation of new computer systems. The latter
permitted improvements in goods procurement, warehousing, inventory management, and related
administrative procedures.
l For example, the construction of a shallow-water, clositng dike in the port of Montevideo, originally included in the project, was excluded based
on environmental considerations without ANP consultation, which supported its construction.
16  In September 1993, Bank missions even started preparing separate aide-memoires for MTOP and ANP, followed by separate Bank confirmation
letters. However, this approach was not followed afterwards.



10
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
29.   The institutional reform introduced in the transport sector is leading to greater efficiency in the
sector. The Borrower has shown continued commitment to them, and all interested parties are supporting
the reforms. Consequently, the process seems to be irreversible, and sustainability can be categorized as
highly likely, especially in regard to the port reform and the private sector participation in DNV. Although
accepted as a major success by all parties, road maintenance activities undertaken by the departmental are
in the peculiar position of being more vulnerable to political pressures. With some notable exceptions, a
number of the departments and local governments still need to strengthen capacity for road maintenance
and to develop a culture of "continuous" maintenance. In some cases, admittedly a minority, the opinion
exists that maintenance resources should support other investment priorities as long as the road is passable.
Therefore, it is considered essential for the Bank to continue to support road maintenance at the local level
through future operations and maintain DNV leadership in this area. The proposed follow-up Second
Transport Project would address road sector sustainability from three perspectives: (i) continuing the
implementation of key institutional reforms in DNV and the departments, and instituting accountable and
service-oriented management practices, (ii) reducing future agency costs by arresting deterioration of the
road network, (iii) exploring new mechanisms to enhance road sector funding, and (iv) ensuring efficiency
and transparency in program fund allocations and strengthening accountability for results.
30.    The sustainability of the investment components of the project is also likely because adequate
provisions were taken to assure their sound operation and maintenance. The probability of maintaining the
achievements generated in relation to the major objectives of the technical assistance program of the project
is also high. Appendix B gives details of actions taken or to be taken for all project components to sustain
project objectives.
31.    Due to built-in safeguards in highway funding allocations and recent reforms, the prospects for
sustainable road maintenance are good. Uruguay has strict ex-ante and ex-post controls on the allocation
and use of tax revenues. Funds are allocated by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of agreed Programs
that comprise the relevant Five Year Plan. Line ministries cannot allocate funds to items not included in the
Plan and cannot exceed the amount allocated for each program. Discretion does exist in the amounts
allocated by the Minister of Transport within a specific program. It is therefore possible to reallocate funds
between highway maintenance and construction as long as the total Highway Program budget is not
exceeded. Nevertheless, Uruguay already has a well-developed domestic road network that provides all
weather accessibility to nearly the entire country. Capacity increases for the few congested highways are
currently being provided through concessions, which do not involve public funding. In addition, an
increasing proportion of maintenance activities are being carried out through outsourcing arrangements,
which has built a secure "firewall" against the diversion of maintenance funds to new construction. Thus,
limited scope exists for allocating funds intended for road maintenance to other activities.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
32.    Project identification and preparation. Satisfactory. The project rightly addressed the major
investment needs in the transport sector, identified in the sector work "Uruguay Transport Sector Strategy
Paper" of May 11, 1987. It followed two previous successful transport operations: Modernization of the
Port of Montevideo (Loan 1798-UR) and Third Road Project (Loan 2238-UR), and it was concurrently
carried out with Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL) (Loan 3517-UR), whose main objectives included
reducing the size of the State as well as reform and privatization of public enterprises, e.g. ANP.



I1
33.   Project appraisal. Marginally Satisfactory. The SAR was a comprehensive document with strong
policy and investment objectives aimed at refiorming the sector, strengthening its managerial and planning
capabilities and stimulating competition and private sector involvement. The investment program was
composed by high-priority, clearly feasible projects and the SAR was well received by the Borrower.
34.   However, some aspects of the SAR could have been improved to make project implementation
easier. Although the severity of the fiscal crisis on the project could not have been anticipated, projections
for the coming Five-Year Plan were too optimistic given the problems observed during appraisal. The SAR
correctly identified project risks, namely the number of agencies involved, and the imminent change in
governments, but the recommended mitigation solutions, e.g. establishment of a Project Coordination Unit
(UCP) and conducting joint annual reviews proved to be insufficient. More importantly, no performance
indicators were included in the SAR for monitoring progress toward achievement of project objectives.
Detailed performance indicators would have assisted the GOU in defining priorities sooner and would have
prevented numerous delays in project implementation, especially for a complex, multimodal project in a
country undergoing broad political, macroeconiomic, and sector changes.
35.   Project supervision. Satisfactorv. Strong supervision was critical in overcoming the changes in
governments and the effects of the reform program and supporting the GOU during the implementation and
completion of the investment and institutional strengthening components. Bank supervision also played a
key role in anchoring reform initiatives. Supervision utilized 198.1 staff weeks, of which 46 were spent in
the field. Twenty-two supervision missions visited Uruguay. Considering that the project took 8 years to
implement, the previous numbers provide a high average of 2.75 missions per year (roughly one mission
every 4.3 months), and 2.1 staff weeks per mission. Supervision missions, typically, took place with
frequency, were small in staff, and lasted for a short duration. Bank staff tended to combine supervision
missions with other missions to the region, which proved to be a cost effective way of supervising. The
Back-to-Office reports provide for an easy follow-up of project implementation.
36.   The decision to amend the project andi extend closing date an additional 28 months, unusual for
Bank standards, proved to be appropriate. During the last three years of the project, the pace in project
implementation improved dramatically in terms of completing physical investments, and launching or
consolidating the reforms in the road and port sectors, respectively.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.   As evidenced by this project, Uruguay has traditionally been a steady, if somewhat slow executor
of Bank projects. Although initial delays were manifested during the establishment of the legal framework
for transport, once this structure was in place, the GOU showed strong commitment to complete the reform
process. The project supported the major refo:rms affecting ANP and DNV. Through the reforms, the GOU
demonstrated diligence in assessing essential implementation details and personnel management needs. The
ANP reform, implemented in 1992, impressively achieved in short time significant improvements in port
operations without major union disturbances. The Borrower managed the reform in the port subsector in an
efficient and prudent way. The DNV reform, which was begun in 1995, was undertaken in a quieter and
more gradual manner, and has allowed increased participation of the private sector in roads. Early results
are very positive and is likely to ensure a good outcome. Borrower performance in the reform of the roads
subsector was also entirely satisfactory.
38.   Project preparation and appraisal. Satisfactory. The Government carried out all kinds of
project preparation activities in a timely and efficient manner. The screening and the economic and



12
environmental evaluations of project components used methodologies previously designed and tested during
preceding Bank projects. In particular, good use was made of the HDM III model, and its inputs are
periodically updated. However, the port components for ANP and the port of Piriapolis under DNH did not
have completed and detailed engineering plans, ready to call for bids, at the time the loan was approved.
The submission of preliminary engineering plans during appraisal led to delays in project implementation.
39.   Project implementation. Satisfactory. During the first half of project implementation, progress
was slow, with major delays taking place in the execution of all components, except the department road
maintenance program and the Port of Punta del Este works. The main factor contributing to these delays
was the lack of counterpart funds. In this respect, perhaps project timing was not appropriate given the
macroeconomics conditions prevailing, and the induction of a new Administration right at the beginning of
the project. Monitoring indicators for project implementation in back-to-office reports were repeatedly
rated as unsatisfactory until 1995-96, when implementation clearly improved during the second half of the
project. Implementation of the technical assistance component demonstrated mixed results; it can be
considered satisfactory for the ANP, but only partially complete for MTOP after various major changes
and reductions in the original plan.
40.   Project coordination presented some problems, mainly due to jurisdictional conflicts in areas of
common interest between Government agencies, and in their communications with the Bank. The UCP
fulfilled its function, but perhaps it could have been advantageous to strengthen its role vis-a-vis other
agencies. Sometimes, ANP communicated directly with the Bank, creating some confusion and weakening
the important control role of UCP. Compliance with loan covenants was generally satisfactory, with the
exception of planning covenants for which compliance was partly complete. The project initially advocated
strengthening of the Technical Economic Evaluation Unit (AETE) and Economic and Financial Advisory
Unit (EFAU) to administer highway planning and implementation of project Action Plans, respectively.
However, the loss of experienced staff weakened both units. With Bank agreement, the GOU replaced these
entities with the Transport and Infrastructure Planning Institute (IPTI), created in November 1992 and
staffed one year later, and UCP. This scheme partly achieved project objectives. MTOP now plans to
transfer planning responsibilities to a new Directorate of Planning, which would be integrated with most of
IPTI personnel. Audit and progress reports were adequately prepared, although generally presented after
set deadlines.
G.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41.    Satisfactory. Overall project outcome is considered to be satisfactory as the majority of the sector
policy objectives were achieved in an adequate manner. It is worth noting that the physical works were
executed during difficult macroeconomics conditions, which prevailed for about half the project execution
period. The project contributed to the definition and implementation of successful reforms in two key areas
of the project managed by MTOP and ANP. For the former, the reforms involved reformulating its internal
structure and improving resource allocations, identifying and consolidating key activities, privatizing
activities, which can be better performed by the private sector, and reducing personnel. In regard to ANP,
the passage of the Port Law No. 16,246 of April 8, 1992 represented a major change in managing port
activities, especially in the Port of Montevideo. ANP reform was supported by two technical assistance
packages, one included in the 302 1-UR and another financed by Bank Loan 3517-UR. The technical
assistance program for MTOP was only partly implemented, but the technical assistance program for DNV
was successful. Finally, the Routine and Periodic Maintenance Program for the departments was
successful, although it still requires active support by DNV to continue functioning.



13
H.  FUTURE OPERATIONS
42.    Government is taking actions that will. eventually contribute to improving project sustainability and
maximnizing project benefits. These activities include: (a) strengthening the role of MTOP in planning and
managemnent of construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the primary road network; (b) increasing
road sector funding, which is based on the concept that roads are public services to be funded by users; (c)
increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of road operations; (d) bringing in the private sector to finance,
build, maintain and operate substantial portions of the prinary road network, and contracting out periodic
and routine maintenance to private contractors and microenterprises; (e) concessioning of the construction,
rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of transport infrastructure, e.g. the Port of La Paloma and the
Carrasco and Punta del Este airports; (e) continuing institutional building programs and supporting the
transfer of technology to departmental govermnents; (f) maintaining support for Port reform, aimed at
improving port planning, maximizing productivity and efficiency, reducing costs, and increasing port traffic
with a sustained private sector participation; and (g) facilitating operations in the Port of Piriapolis.
43.    The enhancement of intermodal transport coordination is supported by the ongoing Forestry
Products Transport Project (Loan 4204-UR), which is using an integrated approach for the transport of
forest products and incorporating the intrinsic advantages and disadvantages of each mode. The same
project supports the continuation of the departmental road maintenance program started under 302 1-UR.
A proposed follow-up Second Transport Project, scheduled for FY99, would deepen the reforms in the road
sector. The project intends to: (i) support the rehabilitation and maintenance of national roads and
restoration of bridges whose physical and structural characteristics do not meet Mercosur standards to
pennit the use of larger and heavier vehicles for international and domestic traffic; (ii) increase private
sector participation in road maintenance through the use of performance-based contracts for the
maintenance and/or rehabilitation of roads; and (iii) strengthen road sector management at DNV through an
internal restructuring its organization and work processes; and (iv) technology transfer to the departments
to support sustainable maintenance of their gravel road networks.
I.     KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44.    Several lessons can be derived from the implementation of this project and the major institutional
reforms that took place between 1992-1995. I)ue to relevance for designing future projects in Uruguay, and
perhaps other countries, the following are the main lessons learned that emerged: (i) key elements for
mobilizing support for institutional reforms; (ii) need for gradually implementing institutional programs;
(iii) merits of "multimodal" approach in the clesign of transport projects; (iv) and the provision of technical
assistance to the executing agency at the early stages of project implementation.
45.    Mobilizing Support for Reform. Alithough an attempt to accelerate privatization of major public
companies was forestalled by a plebiscite in 1992, MTOP was able to launch reforms in both the port and
road subsectors, which aimed at improving sector operation and increasing private sector participation. In
five months from April-September 1992, MTOP prepared the legal framework needed for the reform of
ANP. Throughout the process, MTOP and A1NP showed strong commitment to carrying out the reforms
throughout the organization, by restructuring management, maintaining frequent contact with key actors to
obtain timely feedback, and producing early results. The retrenchment program reduced ANP staff from
about 4,400 to about 1,350. Personnel comp:laints were avoided through well-designed compensation
packages. The early success in the port reforrn was essential in gaining commitment for the on-going
reform in the road subsector.



14
46.    A sound ongoing retrenchment program is allowing DNV to reduce its own staff (so far from about
3,700 employees in 1995 to about 2,400) in coordination with its strategy of outsourcing road maintenance
activities to microenterprises started by former staff. Preliminary evidence has shown that the quality of
maintenance done by the microenterprises is better than average force account work at a cost savings of 20
percent. Former DNV staff have adjusted well to operating under a commercial environment as
performance is now directly linked to financial incentives and contract award.
47.    Phasing-In Institutional Development Programs. The institutional restructuring components of
projects and reform programs have often fallen short of achieving their objectives due to several common
underlying factors confirmed by this project. These factors include: (i) changes in administration or top
sector management can leave reform programs without the requisite leadership to implement the reforms, or
may shift priorities away from reform; (ii) the scope and timetable for implementation may be overly
ambitious and not commensurate with the existing political environment; and (iii) the reform package
exceeds the absorptive capacity of affected institutions. The project was designed under one administration
and carried out under two different administrations, creating difficulties in project execution, coordination,
and numerous delays. These risks can be minimized when project implementation is aligned with the
political cycle and long-term investment plans, e.g. the Five Year Plan in Uruguay. Furthermore, a
"champion" should be designated at the beginning of project implementation to coordinate institutional
strengthening programs. It also is necessary to gradually build consensus for institutional reforms, which
can be achieved through a phased-approach to institutional building and limiting the number of activities to
a few but essential issues. Case in point, the initial institutional strengthening program for departments
contained too many parameters and technologies that exceeded the capacity to implement the program. This
program was later adjusted to correspond to the institutional capacity of departmental entities. In this
manner, subsequent operations can build or expand these programs as needed.
48.    Multimodal Approaches in Project Design . Optimization of the transportation system is the
primary rationale for a multimodal approach. The elimination of a proposed railways component at
appraisal, which was initially part of the project design, deprived the project from addressing issues
inherent across transport subsectors, which include: (i) coordinating of surface transport arriving at ports;
(ii) establishing tariff policies and regulation; (iii) minimizing demand distortions; (iv) developing an
integrated transport policy by eliminating unprofitable services, e.g. railway lines and stations. Although
the project successfully carried out comprehensive investment and institutional building action plans for
both the port and road subsectors and addressed relevant institutional issues, this multimodal approach
brought unnecessary complexities to project management, implementation, and supervision without the
obvious advantage of a joint operation. MTOP Project Implementation Unit manifested difficulties in
coordinating between the independent modal agencies on aspects that went beyond policy. The disconnect
between subsectors in project implementation was also illustrated by the fact that the first Bank multimodal
supervision mission (staffed with port and road specialists) did not occur until July 1992, more than three
years into project implementation. Keeping project design simple improves the likelihood of successful
implementation. Before designing complex multimodal projects, the merits of such approach should be
carefully assessed against the increased risk of having components lag due to ineffective coordination.
There are situations where a multimodal approach is the very essence of a project, such as when the project
has limited objectives, deals with policy elements requiring coordinated action, or addresses the transport
needs of commodities entailing multiple transport modes (e.g. Uruguay Forest Products Transport Project).
49.    Bank Technical Support to Counterpart Agencies. Although identified in previous ex-post
project assessments and now considered standard practice in Bank operations, the following actions would
have greatly facilitated project implementation and minimized delays: (i) a project launch exercise to build
consensus in the early stages of implementation; (ii) an operational manual to guide the executing agency in



15
managing the project; (iii) performance indicators to assess the progress in meeting project objectives; (iii)
training of counterpart staff in the Bank's procurement, audit, and disbursement policies and procedures to
prevent delays and reduce the possibility of disagreements and potential conflicts between Bank practices
and the legal norms in the country; and (iv) incorporating stakeholder participation in project design and
supervision-- in the restructuring of the Port of Montevideo and the outsourcing of most of its operations,
this approach served to ease the transition for affected workers, thus avoiding significant social and labor
unrest. (para. 8).



16
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives              Substantial       Partial        Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                             L            _                                                 l
Sector policies
Financial objectives                   l               I l_l                 _l_l
Institutional development              !               [       /       I                l
Physical objectives                    I       /       [               I _I
Poverty reduction                                      [                                I       /
Gender issues                                          [
Other social objectives                                r               !
Environmental objectives               _                               I                I       /
Public sector management                      /        [               I                I
Private sector development
B. Project sustainability                      Likely              Unlikely              Uncertain
C. Bank performance                     Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification
Preparation                                                 I          /
Appraisal                              |                    I
Supervision                            j
D. Borrower performance                 Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                                                            /
Implementation                         _       _      _                /
Covenant compliance                    _                               /
Operation (if applicable)                                   I          /
E. Assessment of outcome                    Highly       Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory        Highly
satisfactory                                    unsatisfactory



17
Tabtle 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                                                                             Year      Status
I approved
Preceding Operations                          _
Second      1689-UJR  Improve road corridors between Uruguay and Brazil;                     1979    Closed
Highway                                                                                               1986
Project               Institutional Strengthening for Transport Sector entities, e.g. planning and
programming in the road subsector and  restructuring the railway
subsector.
Port of     1798-UR                                                                           1980    Closed
Montevideo            Institutional Strengthening of ANP, which included the preparation of a         1990
Project                   Master Plan for the Port of Montevideo;
Procurement of Equipment fior the Port of Montevideo;
Civil Works to improve the existing infrastructure and install the purchased
equipment.
Third       2238-UR                                                                           1983    Closed
Highway               Build, rehabilitate and maintain national roads under the jurisdiction of       1990
Project                   DNV, especially road corridors between Argentina-Brazil-Uruguay and
departmental/rural roadLs administered by the Intendencias;
Strengthen and consolidate planning duties and project implementation
capacity within MTOP and DNV.
Public      3517-UR                                                                           1992    Closed
Enterprise            Support Govermnent efforts in improving the provision of public services        1997
Reform                    and reducing the size of the State in the teleconununications, transport
Loan                      and energy sectors;
(PERL)
Develop and implement sector policies, regulatory frameworks, and
privatization and restructuring programs for the telecommunications,
transport and energy sectors.
Transport of 4204-UR                                                                          1997    Under
Forestry              Facilitate the cost-efficient transport of forestry products from forest to port-  executio
Products                 to-exit through the rehabilitation of transport infrastructure;              n
Project
Increase productivity in the road and port sectors and improve efficiency
while reducing subsidies to the national rail carrier (AFE) through
private sector participation in the operations of forest products transport.        l
Second        N/A                                                                          Planned for Under
Transport             Arrest road deterioration and enable Uruguay to handle the movement of  FY1999   Prepara
Project                   larger vehicles along international corridors and strategic feeder roads    tion
through rehabilitation md maintenance of national roads and restoration
of bridges;
Increase private sector participation in road maintenance through the use of
performance-based contracts for the maintenance and/or rehabilitation of
roads;
Strengthen road sector management at DNV through an internal
restructuring;
Implementation of more commercial and user-oriented practices at the
department levels through sustainable maintenance of their gravel road
networks
Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project.



18
Table 3: Proiect Timetable
Steps in project cycle                     Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  N/A
Preparation                                 November 1987
Appraisal                                  J April 1988
Negotiations                                September 1988
Board presentation                          February 7, 1989
Signing                                     April 6, 1989
Effectiveness                               October 19, 1989
Project completion                         | December 31, 1997
Loan closing                                December 31, 1997



19
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ Millions)
World Bank (*)
FY            1989 1990  1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997
Appraisal Estimate        8.0  18.0  36.0   57.0   72.0   79.0   80.8    N/A         N/A
Revised Appraisal        N/A  N/A        N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A      80.8
Estimate
Actual                    8.0 [ 9.2 | 12.5   18.0 J 28.5   41.1   53.8 [ 70.0 j  80.3
|Actual as %of1Estimate    100 [ 51 |  35      32  J  40      52     68  [ N/A       N/A
Actual as %ofRevised     N/A  N/A   N/A        /A    N/A    N/A   NA    N/A          99.4
Estimate                 _     _     _        N    J         N
Date of Final Disbursement N/A [N/A JN/A    N/A  | N/A  ] N/A  [ N/A  [ N/A  [ 8/31/97
EXIMEANK (*)(US$ Millions)
FY              1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  19971  19981
Appraisal Estimate       j 7.4   16.5   32.9 f 52.1   65.9   72.2   73.9   73.9    73.9
Revised Appraisal Estimate |_N/A    N/A  | / a N/A   N/A  N/A  N/A    N/A    N/A
Actual                      7.4    8.5  F11.7   16.5 [ 27.9 j 36.4   40.3   64.3    67.8
Actual as % of estimate    j 100   51.5   35.6   31.7 [ 42.3   49.3   54.5 j 87.0    91.7
Actual as % of revised    [ N/A    N/A   N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A  I N/A
Date of final disbursement   N/A  IN/A   N/A    N/A  [N/A    N/A  TN/A    N/A  1 5/14/98
(*) As of January 31, 1998
1. Disbursements were not expected for FY1997 and FY1998 as the original project closing date June 31, 1995



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Proiect Implementation
I. KEY IMPLEMENTATION                APPRAISAL                            ACTUAL
INDICATORS IN SAR                     ESTIMATE                                                          l
CIVIL WORKS
DNV
Construction of Route 1           149 Km             70 Km
Bridge Construction               Not specified       7 bridges
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of    Not specified    470 Km
Road Corridors                                                                                          l
Maintenance of Rural Roads        10,000 Km           10,000 Km
ANP (Port of Montevideo)
Construction of a closing dike    Not specified       Canceled
Remodeling the General Cargo Areas  Not specified     Demolition of cargo warehouses, construction of 10 ha.
of pavement. Power generation facilities and construction
of a 1,000 m3 water tank
Remodeling pier 8                 Not specified       Demolition of cargo warehouses and installation of 1 ha.
of pavement
DNH
Remodeling of La Paloma port      Not specified       Canceled
Construction of small craft berths in   340 m         340 m
the Port of Punta del Este
Expand Port of Piriapolis         Not specified       Construction of 280m of barriers, 8100 m2 of sloped
barriers, 186m of small craft berths, and a Travelift
structure
GOODS
DNV
Computers                         Not specified       15 units
Laboratory equipment              Not specified       18 units for soil and granular base tests and 18 units for
grading tests, with ancillary equipment
Light vehicles                    Not specified       Canceled
Survey equipment                  Not specified      Canceled
Scales                            Not specified      Canceled
ANP
Computers                         Not specified      Canceled
Equipment for moving cargo and    Not specified       16 semitrailers, 9 trucks, and medium and low voltage
containers, maintenance equipment,                   equipment
machinery and tools
Training equipment and materials    Not specified     Canceled
Treatment plant                  |Not specified      |Canceled



21
Table 5: Kev Indicators for Proiect Implementation
L KEY IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS                             SAR                 STATUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
MTOP
Marina Study                                                 Yes    Canceled
Dredging Services study                                      Yes    Canceled
Transport Planning Study                                     Yes    Canceled
AFE Restructuring                                            No    Completed
Transport Legal and Regulatory Framework and Institutional   No    Completed
Structure Study                                                                                    l
Soil Tests for Port of Punta del Este                        No    Completed
Road User Charges Study                                      No    Completed
DA1
Road Planning System Study (SIPLA)                           Yes    Underway
Soil and Material Tests Study                                Yes    Completed
Traffic Management System (SAT)                              Yes    Completed
Road Maintenance and Management System (SAM) Study           Yes    Completed
Equipment Utilization System                                 Yes    Completed
Forest Products Transport Study                              No    Completed
Suburban Roads Study                                         No    Completed
Institutional Strengthening for Municipalities (PRAIM)       Yes    Completed
ANP
Port Management                                              Yes
Increased Managerial Capacity                                        Completed
Strengthen Commercial Division                                       Completed
Improvement of Supply and Procurement Systems                        Completed
Port Operations                                              Yes    Completed
Improved Costing System
Port Maintenance                                             Yes    Canceled
Port Information Management                                  Yes
Port Information and Studies Center                                  Completed
Document and Information Flows Database                              Completed
Equipment Inventory                                                  Completed
Human Resource Capacity Building
Marketing.                                                   Yes
Strengthen of Commercial Division                                   Completed
Engineering Studies                                          Yes    Canceled
Revised Master Plan for Montevideo Port                      No    Underway
Institutional Strengthening and Staff Training               Yes    Completed
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not applicable)



22
Table 7: Studies Included in Proiect
Study                                Purpose as dermed at appraisal/redefined                        Status                            Impact of study
ANP_
Human Resource Capacity (G-1)      General inventory of human resources within ANP with all necessary data for its | Completed   By updating personnel data, the consultant study served as a valuable
optimal utDization, and the implementation of a human resources database.                tool for determining the potential use of ANP Human Resources.
Equipment Inventory (G-2)          General inventory of land and port-based operational and maintenance equipment  Completed  Information  has served as a powerful management tool for port and
including a registry of technical specifications and cost and a proposal about their      shop equipment and is one of the more up-to-date inventories in the
l____________________________  respective utilization, recycling or abandorment.                                             Latin America Region.
_      ___                                ________                                                             I   _    _    I  _______
ANP Document and Information Flows Collect documents in use, develop related indices and information flow charts of  Completed   Provides a clear and well-structured base of information, which could be
Database (G-3)                     within the database to permit its management and administration                           easily updated through special programs available in the system.
Improved of Costing System - (G4)   Develop and maintain port tariff regime and levels based on actual costs..   Completed   Costing and Management Information Systems records ANP costs and
revenues within each Business Center. This infonnation has improved
data disaggregation, has led to the creation of increased performance
indicators and has given Business Center Managers have improved
managerial autonomy.
Institutional Strengthening and Staff Improve managerial capacity, incorporate updated procedures, and optimize available  Completed   General training: Results have been satisfactory. Managerial capacity
Training (G-5)                     resources.                                                                                and moIle has improved. Specifc Training: General instiutonal and
_                                                                                     p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roject management capacity was not achievedl
Post Information and Studies Center (G- Establish information system  for the management, operations, research  and   Completed   Creation of the ftrst technology center in the Region with the active and
6)                                 development of port and transport activities to facilitate modernization of Uruguayan    integrated participation of the main private and public actors in ports
ports.                                                                                    sector. The center will operate a database and information system for
ships and commodities (not implemented yet). Major benefit include
significant cost reduction for public and private operators..
Improved Supply and Procurement Improve management and oversight of goods procurement and contracts, and obtain  Completed   Computer systems were installed, which permitted improvements in
Systems (S-l)                      more accurate representation of the fmancial costs of these activities.                   goods procurement, warehousing, inventory, and related administrative
procedures. The system includes a user-friendly interface to the Central
Accounting and Budgetary Systems in ANP
Strengthen Commercial Division  (S- Strengthen marketing of ANP port services to facilitate foreign trade and improve the  Completed   A working methodology, new market strategy, and various managerial
2)                                 competitive position of Uruguayan ports.                                                  mechanisms   were introduced to strengthen managerial capacity,
commercialize port activities, and promote ANP commercial ports.



23
Table 7: Studies Induded in Project
Study                               Purpose as defined at appraisal/redermed                     Status                            Impact of study
Port Tariffs Study (S-3)          Develop a planning and calculation tool to evaluate tariff structures and levels under  Completed   Based on the study recommendations, the following decree were
different port institutional and management scenarios.                                 developed and enacted on December 10, 1993: (i) General Tariff Norms
for all commercial ports in Uruguay (534/993) and; (ii) Tariff structure
and levels for ANP ports (533/933). The revised legal framework
simplified the ANP tariff regime from a complex and voluminous book
to an eight-page brochure
Revised Master Plan for the Port of Prepare an updated 20- year Master Plan, that is consistent with the drastic changes  -   The study began on July 7, 1997, and will take 12 months to complete.
Montevideo                        outlined in the Port Law enacted on April 8, 1992.                          Complete
Project Supervision Unit (UDP)    UDP The objectives of the unit were to manage, supervise, and coordinate ANP of  Completed
technical assistance and institutional strengthening programs. The unit evaluated
progress, implementation, quality, effectiveness and of the TA program..            _
MTOP
Forest Products Transport Study  | Study the feasibility and options for transport of forestry products designated for | Completed |The results of the study formed the basis for the development of Bank
export.                                                                        =       [Loan 4204-UR approved in June 1997.
Transport  Legal  and  Regulatory Identify and evaluate the role and effectiveness of public and private entities involved    Partly  N/A
Framework and Institutional Structure in passenger and freight transport.                                    Complete
Study
Road User Charge Study.           Evaluate the cost to the primary road network of roads users by vehicle category.    Partly    Study will be completed by mid-1998. Approved recommendations will
Develop mechanisms for improving cost-recovery.                            Complete  presented to Economic Authorities by end of 1998.
_       __              _                                                                                  l _______ 1  
Buenos-Aires Colonia Bridge Project  Study the financial and economic feasibility for the Buenos Aires - Colonia Bridge  Completed  The study evaluated the economic impact on the Uruguay and Argentine
linking Argentina and Uruguay.                                                         economies and examined the fuiancial feasibility (e.g. traffic projection
and composition, tariff structures, etc.) for the project. This report , will
form the framework for the development of the 41-km Buenos Aires -
Colonia Bridge through a concession arrangement with the private sector
who will own and operate the project.
Road Maintenance and Management Establish a system of data collection, processing and analysis to permit planning,  Completed  The installation of the SAM system has created a more reliable system
System (SAM) Study                coordination, supervision and management of road maintenance activities to maximize    for tracking road maintenance activities and costs. The SAM  system
efficient utilization of existing resources.                                           allows DNV to better assess the financial costs and road pavement
l  lrconditions,, improve planning and project implementation, and utilize
__________________________  _______________________________________________________road_maintenroadceintenncerresurees eorefeffcientl



24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                    Purpose as dermed at appraisal/redefined                           Status                              Impact of study
Road Planning System Study (SIPLA)    Introduce a guiding methodology for the development of the primary network, and to    Pardy
prioritize road investments.                                                       Complete
________ 11 _________________  ___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Suburban Roads Study                   Develop a methodology for the development and location of primary roads in   Completed   The study represents a valuable planning tool for the development of
suburban areas taking into account the existing road network, traffic conditions, and          new roads in urban and suburban areas and is being implemented in the
growth patterns..                                                                             town of Ecilda Paulier.
Traffic Management System (SAT)        Improve collection and processing of traffic data. Improve the quality of traffic  Completed   The study outcome supported the development of the following studies:
studies and road design.                                                                       (i) axle load system, to detect, inter alia, the potential damage of truck
and buses on road pavement; and (ii) traffic.
Soil and Material Tests Study          Rationalize and modernize investigative techniques, implementation of soil and   Completed   The report recommended establishing a Research Institute to study
material tests.                                                                                applied topics in road construction and quality control. Although this
idea has proven to be ambitious, a consultant has been contracted to
undertake research studies regarding road over-utilization and norms for
bituminous emulsions. Additional recommendation include the purchase
of new equipment and implementation of ISO 9000 norms.
___I                                                                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DNV - Municipal Institutional Support Technical assistance to improve municipal road maintenance on department gravel    Pardy        The improvement of department gravel road maintenance has been
(PRAIM)                                roads.                                                                            Completed  impressive. However, the technical assistance program was interrupted,
but will be resumed by the proposed Second Transport Project.
D.N.H.
Boring and soil tests in small craft berth  Investigation of causes, consequences and solutions for a detected failure i  a  Completed
in the port of Ptnta del Este          localized berth area. Also, suggestions on type of tests to receive the structure.



25
Table 8A: Proiect Costs
Category              j   Appraisal Estimate         Revised Estimate           Actual Estimate
(US$]W)                  (US$ M)                    (US$ M)
L  Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total [ Local i Foreign   Total
Civil Works                       I                                  I I  I _   I _   [ _
Highway Component               1 76.5       76.5]j 153.01   N/A        N/ N/A]  N/A[   57.41   108.11   165.5
PortComponent                   | 18.0[      22.11  40.11   N/A[        N/A]  N/A[   12.81    30.3 1   43.1
I                        ~ ~~          ~ ~ ~~~I ___ [  jI j___          j      j___ [ _____]___  ___I_ _i
Equipment                         I       [       I          I       [         ]       [I                I
Ports                          ]  2.2 r        5.3 1    7.51   N/A [    N/A ]  N/A I  --  I       2.21     2.2
Institutional Development Hwys. ]  0.5 [       1.31   1.81   N/A [    N/A ]  N/A [  --   |    0.51         0.5
Institutional DeveloPment Ports     --        0.4      0.41   N/A [    N/A ]  N/A I  --           0.31     0.3
Technical Assistance               i _     [        I _        I _     I                       I
Highways                        I  0.1 |      0.41   0.51  N/A I    N/A ]  N/A|  --  I            3.91    3.9
Ports                          ]  0.5s         2.1 1   2.61   N/A [     N/A ]  N/A [    0.51      2.51     3.0
IMTOP                           I  0.1i        0.5]    0.61  N/A [      N/A ]  N/A [    0.5[      2.41     2.9
I  _ _ _ _     1   1      1___   I  _ __ _ _   [  _ _ __ _ _   ]  _ _ _ _   I  _ __ _ _   I  _ _ _ _ _
Training                          1  --          ().61   0.61   N/A        N/A   N/A|  --   |   --   |   --
Highways                       1  0.21         1.1 ]   1.31   N/A       N/A]  N/A[   --  T   --   I   --
Ports                          |       [      (.1       .1|             I N] /A|  0.1  1    0.41           0.5
MTOP                                         I      I         I                    [       I        I_____
TotalBaseCost                      1 98.11     11(041 208.51   N/A|    N/AI N/A[   71.3[   150.61  221.9
I            1                                       I  I  I    I    I
Physical Contingency               1 10.3 1      11.41  21.71        1          1 I       --   [   --   I   --
Price Contingency                 I  12.71       14.21  26.9    1               1 I
Cofinancing Fee                                  0.3 (131    0.31    1 
Total                              | 121.71    136.31 257.41         1           _    1  71.31   150.61  221.9
Table 8B: Proiect Financing
Appraisal estimate (U$S)               Actual/latest estimate (U$S) (*)
Source                Local        Foreign        Total         Local        Foreign         Total
I   Costs         Costs                       Costs         Costs
IBRD                                           80.8          80.8     |                   80.8          80.8
EXIMBANK                    [    19.7          54.2          73.9            --           69.8          69.8
Counterpart financing       j   101.4           1.3          102.7   j    71.3             --           71.3
TOTAL                            121.1         136.3         257.4         71.3          150.6         221.9
(*) As of January 31, 1998



26
Table 9A: Economic Cost and Benefits (Roads and Ports)
Subproject                     Type of Work                Execution   Subproject   NPV (@12%)             IIRR
Time       Cost (1996       (US$M)            (%)
(years)      US$M)        ._.....
Route 1 (see table 9B)      Widen to four lanes a 70 km road          5            60              6.2              14
section and related bridges.             (4)          (88)*                           (26)
All Other Routes (see       Rehabilitation, repaving, resealing      (5)           102             29.5            17%
table (9B)                  works for 20 segments totaling 646      (N/A)         (N/A)                           (N/A)
Port of Punta del Este      Develop 340 meters of two new.small       3            24               1.3             16
craft berths.                            (2)          (26)                             (43)
Port of Piriapolis          Extend existing breakwater, construct     4             6              3.5              14
new berths and boatrpi failities.        (3)           (7)     |(22)
Port of Montevideo          Demolish warehouses, surface paving,      5            22              13.7             28
and port accesses, remodel berth 8,      (4)          (37)                             (50)
add power generation facilities, and a
water tank of 1,000 m3.                                                          l
TOTAL:            l                                     l I               214             5 S4.2     [
Values in parenthesis are SAR estimates. Due to the project amendment, the km completed forthe Route 1 subproject was about halfthe SAR
estimates. Subproject cost is the value at SAR was prorated to the number of km planned and completed.



27
Table 9B: Economic Cost and Benefits (Roads only)
Road Segment                                    Length Traffic Works            1Subproject  |Subproject |NPVat ERR
I              I                I JCost      [Cost              j 12%
(k)   (ADT)|(text)             1        (M$)[  (000$/km)|  (M$)| (%
____[IIll1~~~~~I                                                                 I_]IIZIZ~I 
Route 1: Santiago Vazquez - Rincon del Pino    |    65    6048 Widening to 4    |       50.981        780]    6.2 14%
! __  !J       lanes           !            I_!              _   !
Ruta 3: 288 km - 308 km 100 (A. Grande)        [    20      78410verlay         !        3.321         1661    0.8116%
Ruta 3: Constancia - Empalme Ruta 26                201   1655 Reconstruction AC         4.691        2341    5.1 31%,
Ruta 5: 181 km - 224 km (Durazno - Carlos Reyes) 1431   1201 Overlay            1        7.171        167     4  24%
Ruta 5: 336 km -361 km                         [    251   1135IReconstruction STI        2.961         1181   0.9 17%
Ruta 5: 361 kn-379 mn                          1    181   1135 Reconstruction AC         2.691         150T    2.0 25%
Ruta 5:479km 000-497 km 062.49                 !    183 994.ReconstrucfiZ AC             3951         219      1.8 21%
Ruta 6: 206 km 900-240 km 750                  1    341    534|Regravelling     |        0.521          15    0.5120%
Ruta 8: 299 km - 321 km                        1_2          335 Reseal                   1.05[         481    0.7120%
Ruta 14: 258 km 500-298km 500 (Jose Pedro           40      240|Reseal                   1 .111        281   0.1|13%
Varela)                                        I                                J ___ ___ __ 
Ruta 19: 0 kmO00 - 25 km 500 (Ruta 14 - Ruta 42)  |    251    119IRegravelling           0.211           9|   0.3119°M
Ruta 19: 25 km 500 -26 km 700 (Ruta 42 - Ruta 6)  1    131   83IRegravelling    |        0.13]         10    0.1 18[
Ruta 19: 36 km 700 - 38 km 900 (Ruta 6 - Cerro      4101     85[Regravelling    j        0.481          12    0.3 17%
Chato)                                         I    .                           I i
Ruta 26: 95km - 122 km                         1    271    174|Reseal                    0.471          17    0.2 15%
Ruta 26: 125 km - 232 km 200                  T -1071    174 Reseal             [        0.871           8     1.4 20%
Ruta 26: Accesos a Rio Branco                        91    695|0verlay                   1.031         1141   0.2115%
Ruta 36: Ao. Las Piedras - Cerrillos          1!8|   1275|Reconstruction ST 1            1.701         941   1.21 23%
Ruta 54: 7 km 200 - 62 km 500 (Ruta 1 - Ruta 12) T   -551    104|Reseal         [        3.021         551   0.7 150/
Ruta 56: Florida - Ruta 6                      |    ll1    613 Reconstruction ST [       4.561         149    2.0 209'
Ruta 97: 0 km 800 - 16 km 500 (Carmelo - Ruta 12    ] 161    122[Regravelling            0.20           12    0.1 179'
Other Routes Total                             1   5811 N/A  I        N/A               40.111   N/A    [  23.3121%
Total 7 Bridges                                I N/AL  N/A            N N/A             21.74    N/A I      N/A  I Nr
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  1 -1  I  mI         m     I [       I  I
All Routes Total                               1   641  N/A           N/A              152.951   N/A    |  29.5117



28
.______  ____Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Text    Covenant Status   Original    Revised                   Description of Covenant             Comments
Reference    Type           Fulfillment Fulfillment
l OAN      2.02  (b)   01                Date    !   Date
LOAN     _     2.02 (b)  _ _01   |C   [10/19/1989 | 10/19/1989 | OPENING OF SPECIAL ACCOUNT
l   3.01 (a)     05       CP  | 6/30/1995 |12/31/1997  CARRY OUT THE PROJECT WITH DUE DILIGENCE
| 3.01 (b) |   02       C   [12/13/1989   8/21/1990 |BORROWER'SEQUITYCONTRIBUTIONTOANP                l
3.02       05       C     6/30/1995 |12/31/1997 1BORROWER'S CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS
l                          |          | W I~~~~~~~~~11T H IN TEN,DEN- CLA Sl
3.04       05       C     6/30/1995   12/31/1997  COMPLIANCE WITH PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS
1   3.05      05        C     6/30/1995   12/31/1997 1MAINTAIN PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT               The PCU has in addition has been strengthened to assume
l ________ I _______ j ______ [ _________ j _________ j ___________________________________________   functions proposed for EFUA in Section 4.07b
3.06       02       c    12/31/1989  10/31/1997  COMPLETE ROAD-USER CHARGE STUDY AND               The final report was presented during the last week of
TAKE ALL ACTION TO ADJUST CHARGES TO              October 1997
30  02  C  REFLECT SHORT-TERM MARGINAL COST OF
MAINTAINING HIGHWAYS
.   3.07       09       C     6/15/1990   6/15/1990  BIANNUAL MEETINGS AND DISCUSSIONS WITH            It was complied with at dates corresponding to the timing
I  I  I  I             I BANK REPRESENTATIVES                            ! of Bank missions.
4.01       01     NYD   6/30/1991   6/30/1991  AUDIT REPORTS                                       On October 1997, the Bank received the 1996 audit
l______l______l_____l______l_____|______ |____  reports due to delays within the "Tribunal de Cuentas."
4.02 (b)    02       C     12/31/1989  12/31/1989  PROVIDE RESOURCES FOR ROAD MAINTENANCE
AND AT LEAST EQUIVALENT OF 1988 US$30.0
l_____    l___ l_l_l                           _ | MILLION FOR NATIONAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE |_l
4.04       05     SOON   6/30/1995   12/31/1997  BORROWER TO ENFORCE CONTROL OF VEHICLE    The study was completed and the Borrower is in the
l_l_l_l_l__                                         WEIGHTS AND DIMENSIONS                             implementation stage
4.05       05       C     6/30/1995   3/28/1998  MTOP'S ASESORIA DE EVALUATION TECNICA Y           AETE was weakened by loss of experienced staff. Its
ECONOMIA (AETE) WITH DNV TO COLLECT,              functions were absorbed by the new Transport and
RECORD, AND ANALYZE DATA REQUIRED FOR             Infrastructure Planning Institute, and now its functions
HIGHWAY PLANNING                                  will be absorbed by the Directorate of Plaming (DP). The
DP was created within the budget but it is not in place
l_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ l_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __l_ _ _ _ _ _ __l_ _ _ _ _ _ __l_ _ _ _ _ _ __l_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  y et.
4.06       05       C     6/30/1995   7/31/1997  BORROWER TO INFORM BANK FROM TIME TO              The GOU sent the budget for the period 1995-1999
TIME ON UPDATINGS OF THE TRANSPORT
EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
4.07       05       C     6/30/1995    10/01997  BORROWER TO ENSURE THAT MTOP AND ANP              EFAU was integrated into the PCU
ACTION PLANS ARE EFFECTIVELY CARRIED OUT
UNDER THE ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL
l_________ _ l     _ l      l           |          |ADVISORY UNIT (EFAU).
Status  C       -       Complied with                  SOON  -         Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CD     -       Compliance after Delay          CP      -       Complied with Partially
NC      -      Not Complied with               NYD    -        Not Yet Due



29
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Text   Covenant Status   Original    Revised                     Description of Covenant                               Comments
Section   Type            Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
LOAN        6.01       05       C     6/30/1995   12/31/1997  STRENGTBEN THE ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL                The PCU has been assigned the coordination
l______                                ________ ADVISORY UNIT (EFAU)                                      functions stipulated for the EFAU
Schedule 5    05      C     6/30/1995   12/31/1997  COMPLIANCE WITH PROCURMEENT REGULATIONS
PROJECT   2.06 (a)      05       C      6/30/1989   6/30/1989  ANP TO ENTER INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE INSTITUTION(S) TO COOOPERATE IN
l_____ _____  ____                     _______ RUNNING TRAIN1NG PROGRAMS
2.06 (bXc)    05      C    10/19/1989  10/19/1989  ANP TO ESTABLISH A TECHNICAL UNIT TO CARRY OUT    The Technical Unit is in place
l_____ ______ ____                     _______ PARTS B1 AND C4 OF TBE PROJECT
3.01 (b)    02       C    12/31/1995  12/31/1997  ANP TO ACHIEVE THE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
l_____ _____                           _______  TARGETS SET FORTH IN THE SCHEDULE
4.03      02       C      9/30/1989   9/30/1989  ANP TO MAINTAIN DETERMINED RATIOS OF TOTAL            Targets were modified. Covenant ratio for the
OPERATING EXPENSES TO TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES first semester of 1997 is 84.5
FOR YEAR 1990 TO 1995 OR ADJUST TARIFF RATES TO
MEET THESE REQUIREMENTS
4.04      02   |C           N/A        N/A   |ANP IS NOT TO INCUR ANY DEBT UNLESS CERTAIN             1 ANP has not incurred new debt.
Itus      l         l      l||REVENUE TARGETS ARE MET                                                     lI-_          .._, __     __l
Status  C      -       Complied with                          SOON  -         Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CD     -       Compliance after Delay                 CP      -       Complied with Partially
NC     -       Not Complied with                      NYD   -         Not Yet Due
Covenant Type:
I  =  Accounts/audits
2  =   Financial perfonnance revenue generation from beneficiaries
3  =   Flow and utilization of project funds
4  =   Counterpart funding
5  =   Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6  =   Environmental covenants
7  =  Involuntary resettlement
8  =   idigenous people
9  =  Monitoring, review, and reporting
10 =  Preject implementation not covered by categories 1 -9
11 =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocations
12 =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/budgetary/institutional action
13 =  Other



30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Statements
(Not applicable)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle        Planned                  Revised                          A Actual
r___________            Weeks          US$          Weeks       US$         Weeks               USS 000
ThroughAppraisal       N/A           N/A           N/A        N/A               112.6                  212.6
Appraisal-Board        N/A          N/A           N/A         N/A               19.5                   39.2
Board-Effectiveness     N/A           N/A           N/A        N/A               25.4                    55.1
Supervision          N/A          N/A            N/A        N/A              198.1                  645.7
Completion          N/A           N/A           N/A        N/A                 4.8                   12.8
Total             N/A           N/A           N/A        N/A              360.4                  965.4



31
Table 13: Bank Resources and Missions
Stage of Project   Month/  Number of Days in  Specialized       Performance Rating        Types of Problems
Cycle        Year    Persons    field   Staff Skills
rpresented
Implementation   Development
Progress 1IP)  Objectives (DO)
Through Appraisal                              _
5/87       1         15   _
11/87       6        53    HE,PE,TE,
_ TEC, FA
N/A       N/A       N/A   _
Appraisal Through
Board Approval                                                     _
N/A       N/A       N/A    _
N/A       N/A       N/A   _
Board Approval
Through
Effectiveness                               _
N/A       N/A       N/A   _
__________   N/A              N/A       N/A   _
Supervision                                 _
r _______________   4/89        1        10        HE             2               1        __
8/89       1         10        PE             2               1               PP
2/90       2         12      HE, TEC          2               1             AP, PP
4/90       2         2        PE, TS          2               1               PP
.____________  :10/90         3         15    PE, TEC,FA         2               1             PMP, PP
5/91       1         5         HE             1               1               PP
10/91       2        10      HE,PE            2               2              AP, PP
3/92       2         10      PE, TEC          2               2               PP
______________   11/92          3        15    HE7,TEC,PE          2              2                PP
5/93       3         36      TE, HE           2               2               PP
______________      7/93        1        2         TE             2               2             AP, PP
10/93       4        40    TE, TEC, FA        2               2           AP, PMP, PP
7/94       2         10       TE,C            U               S           AP, PMPPP 
10/94       1         2        TE             U               U           AP, PMP, PP
5/95       2         16     - TE, FA          U              U           AP, PMP, PP,
12/95       1        2         TE             U               S         PMP,PP,CLC,SP
______________   4/96          2         10    IrE, TEC           U               S         PMP, PP, CLC, SP
L____________   10/96          2         4    _ TE,TP             U               S         PMP,PP,CLC,SP
_____________   12/96           1        1         TE             S               S         AP, PMP, CLC,SP
r_______________    2/97        1         2        TE              S              S               PMP
7/97       1         5         TE             S               S              PMP
________________    10/97       2        10        TE             S               S
Completion                                  _
_____________   10/97           1         1   _TEG, HE             S              S
Total         N/A       N/A       298        N/A           N/A            N/A               N/A
Staff Skills: TEG = Tramsport Engineer; TEC = Trainsport Economist; Transport Planner; TS = Transport
Specialist;C = Consultant; HE = Highway Engineer; FA =Financial Analyst, PE = Port Engineer
Problems: CLC: Compliance with covenants; FP: Financial Performance; AP: Technical Assistance Progress;
PMP: Project Mgt. Progress PP: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress



32                                  Appendix A
AYUDA MEMORIA
URUGUAY
Proyecto de Transporte I (Pr6stamo 3021 - UR)
1.    Una misi6n del Banco Mundial integrada por la Sm. Maria Lucy
Giraldo y el Sr. Jose Luis Irigoyen, visit6 la Republica Oriental del Uruguay
del 7 al 16 de octubre de 1997, con el fin de (i) supervisar la
implementaci6n del Proyecto Transporte I (Pr6stamo 3021-UR), y (ii)
acordar los pasos a seguir para preparar el Informe de Terminaci6n del
Proyecto. La misi6n agradece la colaboracion que recibi6 de las autoridades
del Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Puiblicas (MTOP), la Administraci6n
Nacional de Puertos (ANP) y la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto (UCP).
2.    Las recomendaciones y acuerdos alcanzados con el MTOP y ANP se
resumen en esta Ayuda Memoria y estan sujetos a ser ratificados por las
autoridades del Banco Mundial en Washington y por el Sr. Ministro de
Transporte y Obras Publicas.
Situaci6n actual del Proyecto
3.    Situacion Fmanciera - Desembolsos.   La misi6n. revis6 con
funcionarios de la UCP el progreso en la ejecuci6n de los distintos
componentes del Proyecto. El Anexo 1 resume la ejecuci6n financiera y los
desembolsos del pr6stamo al 30 de septiembre de 1997. Los desembolsos
tramimados hasta la fecha suman US$76.3 millones que corresponden al
94.43% del monto total del prestamo y el saldo de la Cuenta Especial es de
US$5.2 millones, los desembolsos correspondientes al EXIMBANK
ascienden a la suma de US$66.7 millones que corresponden al 90.36% y el
saldo de la cuenta especial es de US$4.4 millones.  El remanente se
encuentra comprometido y se espera que se desembolse el 100% de los
fondos antes del 31 de diciembre de 1997, fecha de cierre del prestamo.
4.    El MTOP no ha presentado los Estados Auditados del Proyecto, por
demoras imputables al Tribunal de Cuentas.
Obras Civiles (Cats. 1, 2, 3 y 4)
5.    Direccion Nacional de Vialidad (DNV)
El estado de las obras contratadas en 1992/93 es:
Rta I Tramo I (readjudicado)          terminada
Tramo II                        terminada
Tramo III                       terminada
Tramo IV                         terminada
Tramo V                         avance 88.95%



33
Puente Pereira                         terminado
Ptes. Pav6n y la Boyada                terminado
Accesos Pte. Pavon y Boyada            terminados
Puente Pan de Aziucar                 terminado
Puente Chamizo                         fue retirado
La situaci6n de las obras incluidas en el anio 1995 para el financiamiento bajo el
Proyecto es la siguiente:
Puente Chapicuy          terminado
Rta.56                   terminado
Rta.36                   terminado
Pte. Carnpanero Gde.     avance 80.97%
Rta. 12 Pasaje Superior  terminado
Rta.5                    termiinado
Rta.3                    terminado
Rta.3/14                 se retir6 del financiamiento del
pr6stamo
Rta.26 Acso.Rio Brco.    avance 85.98%
6.    Programa de Mantenimiento Vial Departamental. El programa del
Mantenimniento Vial Departamental incluido dentro del prestamo termin6 el 31
de diciembre de 1996. La ejecuci6n del ado 1996, iultimo del programa, fue de
US$9,896,947 y la inversi6n en Obras de Arte de US$987,755. Con este
componente se logr6 la sostenibilidad de la estrategia de mantenimiento en las
Intendencias Municipales. Dada la importancia de esta experiencia, la misi6n
solicita a la Direcci6n de Mantenimiento que elabore para el Informe de
Terminaci6n del Proyecto (ver mas adelante) una evaluaci6n del mantenimiento
peri6dico, rutinario y del componente de obras de arte desde el punto de vista
de efectividad y eficiencia en costo, evaluaci6n que facilitari la consolidaci6n
de la estrategia de mantenimiento.
7.    Direcci6n Nacional de hiclrografia (DNH)
Ampliaci6n del puerto de Piriapolis: la obra se encuentra en la etapa de
montajes de instalaciones electricas e iluminaci6n, agua potable y sistema
contra incendio, la fecha de terminaci6n de la obra es el 15 de noviembre de
1997. La situaci6n a la entrega de la obra sera
Area:                           5.5 hectareas
Capacidad de agua               100 embarcaciones
Capacidad en tierra             120 embarcaciones
Servicios                      agua, energia, combustible y telefono
La DNH contrat6 un consultor para la preparaci6n de los documentos
de licitaci6n que contemplan 1a administraci6n, explotaci6n, operaci6n y
mantenimiento del puerto. Los documentos se encuentran en proceso de
revisi6n.



34
8.    Administraci6n Nacional de Puertos (ANP)
La situaci6n de las obras es la siguiente:
Accesos al Puerto              terrninado
Demolici6n Dep6sito 10          terminado
Pavimentaci6n muelles           terminado
Construcci6n Tanque de agua     avance 86.71%
Instalaciones el6ctricas       terminado
Reforma y refuerzo muelle 8 y 9  avance 30.590/o
9.    Resumen Obras en ejecuci6n
La inversion acumulada y metas fisicas alcanzadas al 30 de septiembre
de 1997 bajo los componentes de obras civiles a cargo de DNV, ANP y DNH
se resume en el Anexo 2 y el Mantenimiento de las Intendencias
Departanmentales en el Anexo 3. Las obras que se encuentran en la etapa final
de ejecuci6n son:
(i) el Tramo V: Libertad - Rinc6n del Pino, de la Ruta 1, el puente y
accesos Ao. Campanero  Grande  y  Ruta  26: Acceso  Rio Branco
correspondientes a la DNV;
(ii) la construcci6n del Tanque de Agua Potable y del refuexzo
estructural de los Muelles 8 y 9 de la ANP y,
(iii) la ampliaci6n del puerto de Piriapolis de la DNR
10.   Equipos.  Todos los equipos adquiridos con cargo a fondos del
Proyecto han sido entregados a satisfacci6n de DNV (laboratorios, inspeccion
de puentes, computadoras y grua hidraulica) y de ANP (camiones,
semiremolques y equipos para estaciones de media y baja tensi6n), Anexo 4.
11.   Programa de Estudios y Asistencia Tecnica. El Anexo 5 resume los
estudios fianciados con cargo al componente institucional y la asistencia
tecnica
MTOP/EM
A)  Estudio y Relevani-ento de las Organizaciones Publicas del
Transporte del Pais y de las Leyes, Decretos y Reglamentos que regulan su
actuaci6n, el consultor esti trabajando en la Base de Datos, el criterio de
diseflo y de operaci6n. El texto de la encuesta para el Relevamiento de las
Entidades PWblicas se encuentra listo para ser utilizado. La termninaci6n del
estudio esta prevista para el 15 de diciembre de 1997;



35
B)    Analisis de la probleematica de Accidentes de Transito. El
estudio fue transformado en un "Analisis de la Adecuaci6n de Rutas en Pasajes
por Areas Urbanas" y fue transferidlo a la DNV quien contrat6 el estudio para
el tramo Punta de Rieles - Pando, de la Ruta 8. El consultor esta trabajando en
la preparacion del pliego de licitaci6n y en el Proyecto Ejecutivo. La ejecuci6n
de este estudio cumple parcialmente el objetivo de lograr identificar las medidas
a tomar en las rutas mis congestionadas y de establecer una politica para
mantener una base de datos. La soluci6n tecnica prersentada tiene un costo de
US$6.0 millones.
C)    Estudio del Sistema de Cargas a los Usuarios de la Red Vial, el
estudio esta pr6ximo a terminarse y el consultor presentara el informe final el
31 de octubre de 1997. De acuerdo con el Informe de Progreso DI, el
diagn6stico del sistema de cargas a los usuarios y gastos publicos viales
concluye que la recaudaci6n de tributos y peajes de los usuarios de las vias
excede en mucho a los gastos viales y ademas plantea varios sistemas
alternativos de financiamiento vial en cuanto a: tributaci6n, asignaci6n de
recursos, politicas de conservaci6n vial, afectaci6n y manejo de fondos y
aspectos administrativos y juridicos. Una vez revisado el Informe Funal, el
MTOP presentara al Banco el plan de acci6n para la implementaci6n de las
recomendaciones.
DNV
D)    Estudio de la Administraci6n del Trafico Vial, el estudio esta
terninado y esti pendiente la implementaci6n de las recomendacioaes
presentadas por el consultor sobre el manejo del sistema de conteo de transito y
del sistema de pesae de vehiculos.   Con el fin de proseguir con la
implementaci6n DNV realiz6 un llamado a preselecci6n de empresas
interesadas en la instalaci6n de Puestos de Conteo de Trinsito en las Rutas
Nacionales y la licitaci6n para el sistema de pesaje se encuentra en proceso de
adjudicaci6n;
E)    Estudio del Sistema de Administraci6n del Mantenimiento Vial
el informe final del estudio seri entregado el 15 de octubre de 1997,
cumpli6ndose el objetivo previsto. El lo. de Enero de 1997 se empez6 a
cargar el sistema con la informaci6n de las tareas realizadas, porque solo se
tenia la informacion relacionada coIn las previstas. Durante el desarrollo de los
trabajos DNV pudo apreciar que el sistema propuesto va a significar un gran
avance para la Adniinistraci6n del Mantenimiento y con el fin de abarcar todas
las etapas, el contrato esti en traniite de ampliaci6n por un anlo para que el
consultor preste asistencia duranto el mantenimiento del sistema. Ademis
DNV esti en el proceso de adquisic'ion de los equipos para el apoyo de las
Zonas y en la mejora del sistema de telecomunicaciones. DNV informari al



36
Banco oportunamente cuando el sistema de gesti6n se encuentre totalmente
operativo;
F)    Estudio  del Sistema  de  Planificaci6n  Vial, el estudio
adicionalmente a las carreteras abarca puentes y soluciones de seguridad para
las intersecciones y cruces peligrosos y definira los estandares de diseflo y las
proyecciones de trifico y de estado. El sistema esti programado para calcular
el presupuesto quinquenal y proporcionar herramientas para obtener el costo
que representa postergar la ejecuci6n de una obra. El estudio terminara el 31
de diciembre de 1997 y durante el primer semestre de 1998 se trabajari en el
procesamiento de la informacion.
ANP
G)   El estudio Sistema de Abastecimientos se encuentra terminado;
H)   El estudio Centro de Informaci6n y Estudios Portiarios, coa
base en el estudio se cre6 el Centro de Informacion de Estudios Portuarios
(CIEP), este ambicioso proyecto pretende formar el nicleo de un centro
telematico portuario del Cono Sur, en la etapa final el consultor esti trabajando
en el m6dulo de mercaderias.
1)    Estudio Revisi6n Plan Maestro del Puerto de Montevideo: el
consultor se encuentra en la etapa de: (i) analisis y entrevistas con los usuarios
y autoridades principales, incluyendo pesca e industria forestal, y (T) en la
formulaci6n del marco para el analisis de la relaci6n ciudad-puerto. El primer
informe sera presentado en el mes de noviembre.
J)    Estudios basicos Puente Buenos Aires - Colonia la presentaci6n
del Informe Fmal esti prevista para el 15 de diciembre de 1997.
12.   Resumen de estudios en ejecuci6n
Los estudios que se encuentran en diferentes etapas de ejecuci6n son:
a) Estudio y Relevamiento de las Organizaciones Puiblicas del Transporte del
Pais y de las Leyes, Decretos y Reglamentos que regulan su actuaci6n;
b) Estudio del Sistema de Cargas a los Usuarios de la Red Vial;
c) Estudio del Sistema de Administraci6n del Mantenimiento Vial;
d) Estudio del Sistema de Planificaci6n Vial;
e) Estudio Revisi6n del Plan Maestro del Puerto de Montevideo,
f) Centro de Informacion y Estudios Portuarios, y
g) Estudios Basicos Puente Buenos Aires - Colonia.



37
Preparaci6n Informe Final del Prestamo
12.   La misi6n se reuni6 con funcionarios de la Unidad Coordinadora del
Proyecto (UCP), para analizar los procedimnientos establecidos en el
documento "Implementation Completion Reporting (OP 13.55)" de abril de
1994, relacionado con la confecci6n diel Informe Final del Pr6starno. La fecha
de cierre del prestamo es el 31 de diciembre de 1997, por lo que todas las obras
y servicios financiados con cargo al rnismo deberin estar concluidos para tal
fecha (los desembolsos pendientes podrin continuar hasta el 30 de abril de
1998). La evaluaci6n retrospectiva de la implementaci6n del proyecto y un
plan para la futura operacion de las obras financiadas con cargo al pr6stamo
formaran parte del Informe de Terminaci6n de la Implementaci6n del Proyecto
que elaborari el Banco.
13.  Con el fin de preparar la contribuci6n del MTOP y ANP al Informe de
Terminaci6n del Proyecto, se acord6 completar las tareas que se detallan a
continuaci6n en las fechas indicadas, de manera de contar con un borrador del
Informe no mis tarde del 30 de marzo de 1998. La misi6n ayud6 a identificar
los temas que deben ser elaborados por el Prestatario en su informe, asi como
tambi6n la informaci6n que debe proporcionar para que el Banco prepare el
suyo. La UCP del MTOP coordinari la consolidaci6n de la informaci6n y
evaluaci6n de los resultados relacionados con los componentes de inversi6n y
fortalecimiento institucional, obteniendo los aportes de las diferentes entidades
involucradas. El Sr. Rail Auzmnendi (Consultor) asistira al Banco y en la
medida de lo requendo al MTOP y ANP, en el procesarniento de la
informaci6n, evaluacion de los subproyectos, las metas fisicas alcanzadas, los
costos resultantes y preparaci6n del Informe. En particular
a) con apoyo del grupo HDM-MI de la Divisi6n Mantenimiento, llevara a cabo
antes del 31 de enero de 1998, la evaluaci6n econ6mica del sub-proyecto
terminado con financiamiento del proyecto.
b) preparari y enviari al Banco antes del 28 de febrero (i) un informe resumen
(alrededor de 10 - 15 piginas) con su evaluaci6n retrospectiva sobre el logro
de los objetivos del proyecto, la sostenibilidad de los mnismos, el desempeno del
MTOP/DNV/ANP/DNH y del Banco durante la implementaci6n del proyecto,
la efectividad de las relaciones entre ambos, el desempeflo ambiental a lo largo
del proyecto, las principales lecciones derivadas de la reforma del sector
portuario; y (ii) un plan operativo coni las acciones previstas para continuar con
la operaci6n y mantenimiento de las inversiones realizadas y con el
fortalecirniento institucional del MTOP/DNV/ANP/DNR Para aquellos sub-
proyectos con metas aun pendientes, las previsiones para la terminaci6n de los
tnismos y la fuente de los recursos.
14.   El proyecto fu6 diseflado con el fin de reducir los costos de transporte,
fortalecer la integraci6n regional y eliminar el d6ficit de ANP, apoyando la



38
politica de reforrna institucional del gobierno. El proyecto tiene objetivos
institucionales y fisicos.  Ambos objetivos estaban enfocados a cuatro
entidades, MTOP, DNV, DNH, ANP y un apoyo a las Intendencias
Municipales.
15.   El objetivo institucional estaba dirigido a: (i) la reforma del sector
transporte; (ii) el fortalecimiento de la capacidad administrativa y de
planeaniento del mismo; (iii) el estimulo a la competencia; y (iv) al incremento
de la participacion del sector privado. El objetivo fisico a: (i) la rehabilitaci6n y
mantenimiento de carreteras; (ii) al mantenimniento de los caminos
Departamentales; (iii) la rehabilitaci6n de la infraestructura portuaria; (iv) la
expansi6n de los puertos menores; y (v) un componente de asistencia t6cnica.
16.   La misi6n considera que el proyecto no obstante su complejidad logr6
cumplir con una parte sustancial de los objetivos previstos aunque con tres
extensiones de la fecha de cierre, cancelaci6n de algunos componentes y
adici6n de otros.  El proyecto esti contribuyendo a reducir costos de
transporte terrestre por medio  de  la rehabilitacion y  mantenimiento
promoviendo la sostenibilidad de estos con su apoyo a la introducci6n de la
participaci6n del sector privado.   La transitabilidad de los caminos
departmentales ha mejorado sustancialmente debido a la transferencia de
responsabilidad, recursos y capacitaci6n a las Intendencias Municipales para el
mantenimiento. Los costos portuarios fueron reducidos debido a las reformas
laborales instituidas por la admninistraci6n, la reforma de ANP, la participaci6n
del sector privado apoyada por el proyecto y la rehabilitacion de la
infraestructura. La expansion de los puertos menores reporta un 6xito parciaL
17.   La reforma de las instituciones no esti totalmente en linea con los
objetivos, puesto que algunos componentes fueron cancelados a solicitud del
Gobierno, debido principalmente a cambios en las prioridades de las
administraciones y a la falta de recursos de contrapartida en la fase inicial,
raz6n que oblig6 tambien a postergar la contrataci6n de las obras. En relaci6n
con los componentes institucionales cancelados, varios de ellos han sido
incluidos en operaciones mas recientes con el Banco y el Banco Interamericano
de Desarrollo (BID). La misi6n recornienda seguir con una etapa de transici6n
con el fin de consolidar la implementaci6n, recomendaciones y medidas a tomnar
resultado de los estudios que estan pr6ximos a finalizar.
18.   Los pasos a seguir para la sostenibilidad del proceso de reforma
incluyen:
Corto plazo
continuar con el programa de racionalizaci6n de personal en DNV y
DNH el cual esti apoyado por los Decretos 67 y 90197 y en ANP,



39
* concesionar los puertos menores: Piriapolis y Punta del Este,
* terminar el estudio pam la Revisi6n del Plan Maestro del Puerto de
Montevideo, coordinando sus resultados con el Proyecto de
Transporte de Productos Forestales.
Mediano plazo
*  revision de las recomendaciones dadas por el estudio de Cargas a
los Usuarios de la Red Vial y toma de decisiones, establecimiento
de un mecanismo vial para canalizar contribuciones parfiscales
para manteniniiento y rehabilitaci6n a nivel nacional y
departamental, y
*  preparaci6n  del texto  ordenado  e  implementaci6n  de las
recomendaciones del estudio Relevamiento de las Oraizacionos
Publicas del Transporte del Pais y de las Leyes, Decretos y
Regiamentos que regulan su actuaci6n (Anilisis Jundico e
Institucional del Sector).
19.   Por las lecciones que se pueden derivar de la ejecuci6n de este
proyecto y del Plan Operativo cle las Acciones fuiuras que debe incluir la
consolidaci6n de las recomendaciones de los estudios que no alcanzan a
implementarse antes del 31 de diciiembre de 1997, el Baaco ve con gran interes
la preparacion del Informe de Terninaci6n del Proyecto.
En Montevideo, el 16 de octubre de 1997.
Por el MTOP                                  Por el Banco Mundial



** ii { 2.
I'd
I



41
Appendix B
Contribucion clel Prestatario al ICR
PROYECTO DE TRANSPORTE I
Prestamo 3021-UR
Prestamo para el Sector l'ransporte del JEXIM a Uruguay
lruguay
1. INTRODUCCION
1.1.  El Proyecto de Transporte I, por un monto de U$S 230:620.000, ha sido
cofinanciado por el Banco Internacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento (Banco Mundial) a
trav6s del Prdstamo 3021-UR por un monto de U$S 80:800.000, por el Export - Import
Bank of Japan (Exim Bank) a traves del Pr6stamo para el Sector Transporte de JEXIM a
Uruguay por un monto de U$S 73:900.000 y por el aporte del Gobierno en el Proyecto
por un monto de U$S 75:920.000.
1.2.  Originalmente el costo total del Proyecto era de U$S 257:420.000, con una
participaci6n del aporte del Gobierno de U$S 102:720.000, pero debido a las restricciones
presupuestales y a los problemas de implementaci6n que se presentaron en las etapas
iniciales, se acord6 reducir el monto total del mismo ajustandolo a las posibilidades de
ejecuci6n, manteniendo el monto de los creditos obtenidos por los organismos
cofinanciadores, de forma tal que el aporte del Gobierno se viera reducido.
1.3.  La fecha de cierre del Proyecto fue el 31 de diciembre de 1997, habiendo sido
establecido en los Convenios como fecha de finalizaci6n el 31 de diciembre de 1994, fecha
que fue modificada por sucesivas enmiendas a los Contratos.
1.4.  No se cuenta aun con los datos conciliados al cierre del Proyecto, pero, hasta el 30
de abril de 1998 se han desembolsaron U$S 80,8 millones del Prestamo del Banco Mundial
y U$S 72,5 millones del Prestamo del EximBank. El aporte local a la misma fecha ha sido
de U$S 71,3 millones.
1.5.  Este Informe de Finalizaci6n del Proyecto ha sido preparado por la Unidad
Coordinadora de Proyectos con el Banco Mundial (UCP) del Ministerio de Transporte y
Obras PCiblicas (MTOP), contando con la cooperaci6n del Instituto de Planificaci6n del
Transporte (IPTI) del MTOP y de la A.dministraci6n Nacional de Puertos (ANP) para la
preparaci6n de las Evaluaciones Econ6micas Ex-Post correspondientes.1
'El presente Inforine no incluye las Evaluaciones Econ6micas de las obras a cargo de la Adniinistracion
Nacional de Puertos, por no haber sido recibidas estas a la fecha de ernisi6n del mismo.



42
2. OBJETIVOS Y DESCRIPCION DEL PROYECTO
2.1.  El Proyecto fue desarrollado como un Proyecto Sectorial con el objetivo de
reformar los subsectores vial y portuario del Sector Transporte del Pais, fortalecer la
capacidad gerencial y de planificaci6n del prestatario, y estimular la competitividad y
la participacion del sector privado en cada uno de los subsectores mencionados.
Incluy6 Planes de Acci6n de desarrollo institucional para MTOP y ANP y otorg6
alta prioridad a las inversiones en los subsectores vial y portuario: rehabilitaci6n y
mantenimiento de carreteras y puentes, mantenimiento de caminos departamentales,
rehabilitacion de la infraestructura portuaria, expansi6n de los puertos menores.
2.2. El Proyecto comprendi6 las siguientes partes:
Parte A: Subsector vial
1. Obras de reconstrucci6n, rehabilitaci6n y mantenimiento de Rutas Nacionales
2. Ejecuci6n de Subproyectos de acuerdo con el Programa de Mantenimiento
Rutinario y Peri6dico de las Intendencias
Parte B: Subsector Portuario
1. Mejoramiento de la infraestructura y del equipo operativo en el Puerto de
Montevideo
2. Construcci6n de atracaderos adicionales para embarcaciones deportivas en el
Puerto de Punta del Este
3. Mejoramiento de la infraestructura en el Puerto de Piriapolis
Parte C: Fortalecimiento Institucional
1. Fortalecimiento Institucional del MTOP
2. Fortalecimiento Institucional de la Direccion Nacional de Vialidad (DNV)
3. Fortalecimiento Institucional de las Intendencias
4. Fortalecimiento Institucional de la ANP
5. Fortalecimiento Institucional de la Direcci6n Nacional de Hidrografia (DNH)
Parte D: Estudios
1. Estudios de las opciones de alternativa del Puente propuesto entre Argentina y
Uruguay.
2.3. Algunas de las Partes descriptas sufrieron modificaciones o fueron
incorporadas al Proyecto por medio de enmiendas durante la ejecucion.



43
2.4.  En el Anexo 1 se hace una enumeraci6n de todos los componentes de cada una
de las Categorias del Proyecto, mostrando la irversi6n final de cada una de estos.
3. IMPLEMENTACION, EXPERIENCIA Y RESULTADOS
3.1. Existieron retrasos en la imnplementaci6n del Proyecto, lo que llev6 a que
resultaran necesarias sucesivas revisiones y enmiendas de los Contratos de Prestamo
y, en definitiva, llevaron a que la fecha de cierre fuera posterior a la prevista
originalmente.
3.2. El Prestamo 3021-UR se declar6 efectivo el 19 de octubre de 1989 y el
progreso alcanzado en sus diversos componentes durante los primeros 3 afios, fue
relativamente escaso si se lo compara con el cronograma de implementaci6n
acordado en las etapas de preparaci6n del Proyecto.
3.3.   Distintos hechos pudieron haber incidido en esa situaci6n, a saber:
(i) cambio Constitucional del Gobierno Nacional a pocos meses de declararse
efectivo el Prestamo (marzo de 1990);
(ii) demora en la designaci6n de autoridades en los distintos sectores
vinculados al Proyecto;
(iii) severas limitaciones (le inversi6n impuestas en el Pais por razones
macroecon6micas;
(iv) proceso de reforma portuaria y promulgaci6n de la nueva ley (abril de
1992);
(v) cambios en la politica econ6mica del Pais, con enfasis en privatizaciones y
reducci6n del tamanlo del Estado.
3.4. Las limitaciones de inversicn impuestas en el Pais con el objetivo de mejorar
el marco macroecon6mico imperante en el mismo motivaron que se entendiera
pertinente estudiar la posibilidad de reducir los componentes del Proyecto dentro de
la nueva realidad financiera del Pais, pero manteniendo los objetivos originales del
mismo. Esta reformulaci6n redujo y/o reprogram6 los gastos de inversi6n de ciertos
componentes, y posterg6 y cancel6 aquelloc componentes que presentaban una
prioridad de realizaci6n menor, o ciertas incertidumbres propias en su preparaci6n.
3.5. Con el cambio del actual Gobierno Nacional (marzo 1995), el Proyecto cobr6
nuevo impulso. Se elabor6 el ntLevo Plan de Obras Publicas para el quinquenio
1995 - 1999, el cual le otorg6 alta prioridad a las inversiones previstas en el
Proyecto de Transporte I. A su vez, se realizaron una serie de incorporaciones,
sobre todo en el componente vial. Se confecciono un nuevo cronograma de
inversiones y este fue cumplido en todos sus terminos desde su implementaci6n.



44
3.6. En general, el analisis retrospectivo acerca de si la identificaci6n, preparacion
e implementaci6n del Proyecto se concentraron en los verdaderos problemas y
necesidades del Pais, muestra que asi fue, puesto que los objetivos basicos, a pesar
de los afios transcurridos y de los camtios institucionales se mantuvieron,
verificandose algunas variaciones en los componentes de obras, tanto viales como
portuarias, y en la consideracion acerca de la conveniencia o no de la inclusi6n de
determinadas Asistencias Tecnicas.
3.7. La coordinaci6n entre las agencias interrelacionadas, si bien fue dificultosa,
fue lograda de buena forma. La UCP fue la encargada de lograr tal relacionamiento,
a la vez, que fue la interlocutora ante el Banco Mundial para cualquier aspecto
relacionado con el Proyecto.
4. DESEMPENO DE LOS BANCOS
4.1. El relacionamiento con el Banco Mundial ha brindado al Pais importantes
resultados en el desarrollo de su Politica de Transporte.
4.2. En lo que tiene relaci6n con este Proyecto en particular, la participaci6n del
Banco Mundial, aportando su vasta experiencia, mostr6 en todo momento gran
receptividad y proporcion6 un apoyo importante, sobre todo en los momentos en que
se requirieron cambios o ajustes en el Proyecto a efectos de poder mantener los
objetivos establecidos en el mismo,- e incluso, en los momentos que fue necesario
asegurar la continuidad de este.
4.3. En cuanto al desempefio del Eximbank, al no haber realizado este una
supervisi6n directa del Proyecto, no se esta en condiciones de dar un juicio al
respecto. Si corresponde destacar que, problemas de comunicaci6n o envio de
informaci6n entre el Banco Mundial y el Eximbank de Jap6n motivaron demoras
innecesarias en cuanto a la liberaci6n de fondos del Prestamo en varias ocasiones.
5. DESEMPENO DEL PRESTATARIO
5.1. El desempefio del prestatario se vio afectado por los cambios de Gobierno y
de las politicas de los mismos, ocurridos durante la ejecuci6n del Proyecto, a la vez,
que por las muy estrictas politicas macroecon6micas tomadas a efectos de enfrentar
la situacion econ6mica internacional y particular del Pais. Esto determin6 cambios en
las prioridades respecto de alguno de los componentes y produjo, en muchos casos,
atrasos en la toma de decisiones para el inicio de la ejecuci6n, asi como tambi6n
dificultades para la obtencion de recursos presupuestales suficientes para hacer frente



45
a los compromisos que habian sido establecidos, esto uiltimo, materializado a traves
del establecimiento de topes de inversion sin perjuicio de los creditos presupuestales
previamente aprobados.
6. EVALUACION DE LOS RESULTADOS
6.1.  La Administracion Publica en general, y particularmente la DNV y la DNH
del MTOP, y la ANP, han operado, durante la vigencia del Proyecto un intenso
proceso de transformaciones estructurales.
6.2. En cuanto al MTOP, la primera etapa de la Reforma del Estado, tuvo como
principal objetivo la reformulaci6n de su estructura interna y el mejoramiento de la
asignaci6n de recursos. Se procur6 de esta forma defmir la estructura adecuada de la
organizaci6n, identificar las actividades sustantivas y aquellas no esenciales,
determinar areas de actuaci6n del sector privado en tareas tradicionalmente
desarrolladas por el Estado, y reducir el personal.
6.3. Las acciones de Reforma en el ambito Portuario estuvieron apoyadas en 2
paquetes de Asistencia Tecnica: (ii) el Programa de Asistencia Tecnica y
Capacitaci6n para la adecuaci6n de la ANP en el proceso de la Reforma Portuaria
fmanciado por el Proyecto de Transporte I; (ii) el Plan de Accion para la Reforma
Portuaria financiado por el Prestamo 3517-UR tambien del Banco Mundial, dirigido
a la implementaci6n de la Reforma y cuya cobertura involucr6 a las diversas
entidades que participaron directamente en ella.
6.4. La promulgaci6n de la Ley de Servicios Portuarios (Ley 16.246 del 8 de abril
de 1992) y sus decretos reglamentarios han representado un cambio radical en el rol
de la participacion del Estado en la actividad portuaria, basicamente en el Puerto de
Montevideo.
6.5. El Proyecto de Transporte I fue muy provechoso para el Pais debido a que a
traves de el se pudo fmanciar parcialmente, durante varios afios, una parte
importante del Plan Nacional de Obras Puiblicas a la vez que constituy6 un
importante instrumento de apoyo para poder llevar a cabo los procesos de
transformaci6n mencionado en los puntos anteriores.
6.6. Si bien debemos concluir que las previsiones en cuanto a los tiempos de
ejecuci6n del Proyecto no se pudieron cumplir, no debemos dejar de mencionar,
como ya lo destacamos,  que esto se Cebi6, fundamentalmente a motivos
coyunturales y no a ineficiencias de las distintas Administraciones en cuanto a su
capacidad para preparar y Ilevar a cabo el Proyecto.



46
6.7. El mejoramiento fisico en obras de infraestructura, tanto vial como portuarias,
fue sumamente importante.
6.8. El Programa de Mantenimiento Ruiinario y Peri6dico brindado como apoyo a
las Intendencias del interior del Pais tuvo un alto impacto en las distintas regiones
productivas, pudiendose concluir que el mismo fue sumamente provechoso. Debido a
esto, es que en las siguientes operaciones crediticias con el Banco Mundial (Proyecto
de Transporte de Productos Forestales, en ejecuci6n y Proyecto de Transporte II, en
negociaci6n), se ha solicitado la inclusi6n de este componente a efectos de darle
continuidad y poder alcanzar de una forma mas deflnitiva los objetivos previstos en
el momento de su inclusi6n en el Proyecto.
6.9. En cuanto a la utilizacion de recursos del Proyecto para el Fortalecimiento
Institucional de los organismos involucrados, si bien su desarrollo fue lento y debi6
ser reducido en cuanto a los alcances establecidos originalmente adaptandolo a las
nuevas poifticas del Gobiemo y realidades del Pais, tuvo igualmente un efecto
positivo, en cuanto permiti6 el fortalecimiento de las capacidades tecnicas del MTOP
y ANP, permitiendose la transferencia de tecnologia en las areas previstas.
7. PLAN DE ACCION
7.1. Las principales acciones a tomar fueron identificadas por el Banco Mundial
junto con el Gobierno en oportunidad de la preparaci6n por parte del primero del
documento que resume las Estrategias para el Sector Transporte en el Uruguay
(Informe 6747-UR del 11/5/1987). Tales acciones se confirmaron en el momento de
las negociaciones.
7.2.   Desde el punto de vista del Sector Transporte, se estableci6 que las reformas
apuntarian al fortalecimiento de la capacidad gerencial y de planificaci6n del MTOP,
asegurando la recuperaci6n de los costos de parte de los usuarios de las carreteras.
7.2.1. Al respecto, fue realizado un estudio de Cargas a los Usuarios cuyo objetivo
principal fue proponer alternativas autosostenibles de tributaci6n y financiamiento
del sistema, basados en principios de consenso con relaci6n a las fuentes de
financiamiento. El consultor present6 propuestas en cuanto a tributaci6n,
conservacion vial, manejo de recursos, afectacion de tributos, fondo de
mantenimiento vial y administraci6n del fondo, las que estan siendo analizadas por
tecnicos del MTOP.
7.2.2. Otro producto muy importante del Proyecto, fue la elaboraci6n del Programa
de Infraestructura del Transporte de Productos Forestales, cuyas conclusiones



47
constituyeron la base fundamental para la confecci6n del Proyecto que dio origen a
un nuevo Prestamo con el Banco Mundial
7.2.3.La Parte D del Proyecto "Estudios de las opciones de alternativa del Puente
propuesto entre Argentina y Uruguay" fue incorporada con posterioridad a la firma
de los Prestamos, y ha constituido un factor muy importante y dinamizador en lo que
tiene relaci6n con la preparacion del Proyecto del mismo.
7.2.4. El Puente Buenos Aires - Colonia supondra una inversi6n de 800 millones de
d6lares y se traducira en un puente de 41,5 kil6metros de largo en linea recta con 4
vias y secciones elevadas para canales de navegaci6n. Los pilotes tendran una altura
de 29 a 45 metros, libres de riesgo de movimi snto de tierra, y las cabeceras de este
puente han sido fijadas en Punta Lara, 40 km. al sudeste de Buenos Aires, y en
Punta de los Patos, 8 km. al este de Colonia. Durante 1997 se ha realizado el
ilamado a empresas interesadas en la precalificaci6n, incorporaci6n al registro de
participantes y acceso al Data Room, y se espera que durante 1998 se realice el
llamado para la Licitaci6n Piblica Internacional que implicara para el concesionario
el disefio, la construcci6n y la operaci6n del puente durante 35 aihos, incluidos los de
la construcci6n.
7.3. En el Subsector Vial las reformas llevarian al fortalecimiento de la capacidad
de planificaci6n de la DNV; actualizaci6n de los tecnicos y de los controles de
calidad realizados por DNV y por las Intendencias Departamentales; mejoramiento
de la operaci6n en la red de carreteras y mejoramiento de la planificacion y
organizaci6n del mantenimiento de las carreteras.
7.3.1. En las condiciones en que la presente Administracion inicia su gesti6n en
1995, y dada la perdida de patrimonio vial arrastrada desde lustros anteriores, la
DNV expuso en la Ley de Presupuesto sus objetivos, involucrando al sector privado
en la consecucion de los mismos. Entre ellos defini6: (i) integraci6n efectiva del Pais
al MERCOSUR; (ii) mejora de la competitividad de los productos uruguayos; (iii)
potenciaci6n de las ventajas comparativas de cada regi6n del Pais; (iv) optimizaci6n
de la infraestructura existente en el Pais.
7.3.2. Hist6ricamente las tareas de conservaci6n se llevaron a cabo por la via de
contratos de obra pTublica para los casos de construccion de obra nueva,
rehabilitaci6n y tareas extraordinarias de mantenimiento, y por administracion, con
personal y maquinaria propios, en los casos de mantenimiento rutinario. Dadas las
limitaciones que conlleva el marco juridico puiblico, se consider6 conveniente iniciar
nuevas formas de gesti6n que permitieran realizar en forma mas eficaz y eficiente el
mantenimiento rutinario de la red.
7.3.3. La DNV se aboc6 a estudiar los mecanismos contractuales, las formas de
garantizar el funcionamiento del sistema y su implantacion. Se requeriria el



48
redimensionamiento del sector privado, pues la tarea de conservaci6n rutinaria
difiere sustancialmente de las de producci6n masiva que hoy ejecutan. Los
funcionarios viales se replantearon el sentido de su trabajo, y analizaron  la
posibilidad de desarrollar las tareas en un nuevo marco, o incluso, se transformaron
en contratistas, experiencia que en forma exitosa vienen desarrollando varias
microempresas conformadas por ex funcionarios de la DNV, tanto para el
mantenimiento como para sefializacion e iluminaci6n de rutas nacionales.
7.3.4. En nuimero de funcionarios de la DNV, de un total aproximado de 3.700 en
marzo de 1995, se redujo, en la actualidad a 2.500. Esta reducci6n oper6 por 3 vias:
(i) no renovaci6n de contratos; (ii) incentivos para el retiro; (iii) formaci6n de
microempresas.
7.3.5. A efectos de definir una "visi6n" del mantenimiento vial a largo plazo, se
comenz6 por definir la red vial como un servicio puiblico a disposici6n, en principio,
de todas las personas que deseen utilizarlo. De ese modo, los caminos alcanzarian
una condici6n similar a la de los demas servicios pudblicos como los de electricidad y
telefono. Se trat6 de acabar con la idea prevaleciente en diversos sectores de la
poblaci6n, segun la cual los caminos son un servicio que el Estado debe brindar en
forma gratuita. De hecho no lo son, e implican una elevada carga para la sociedad,
que invierte sus recursos en un organismo como la DNV que tiene, aunque en
proporciones decrecientes, un alto costo de intermediacion. La definici6n de los
caminos como servicio puiblico es tambien un paso decisivo para dar transparencia al
fmanciamiento de estos, independizandolo de la asignaci6n de recursos provenientes
de los impuestos generales.
7.3.6. Las actividades de la gesti6n y manejo fisico de la red se trata de que sean
ilevadas a cabo por empresas de gesti6n vial, dado que dstas pueden reunir las
condiciones de autonomia y flexibilidad que la gesti6n y los procesos productivos
requieren, entre otras la agilidad para decidir, contratar, premiar y sancionar. La
funci6n de cautelar los intereses de la comunidad permanecera en el ambito de la
administracion puiblica. BAsicamente, se con.ideran 3 funciones indelegables: (i)
atenci6n de todas las zonas del Pais; (ii) atenci6n de emergencias; (iii) moderador del
mercado
7.3.7. En funci6n de todo lo expuesto, se han comenzado a tercerizar las tareas de
conservacion de las rutas nacionales a trav6s de contratos de mantenimiento con
empresas del mercado y micorempresas, asi como mediante la concesi6n de obras
publicas viales.
7.3.8. En relaci6n a la concesi6n de obras, en el presente afio se ha adjudicado la
construcci6n de la doble via de la Ruta 1 entre Montevideo y Libertad, y el nuevo
puente de 4 vias sobre el Rio Santa Lucia, concesi6n que tendra una duraci6n de 17



49
afios. Originalmente estaba prevista la ejecuci6n de estas obras en el marco de este
Proyecto.
7.3.9. La meta de la DNV es continuar con este proceso iniciado con el apoyo del
Proyecto de Transporte I, y llegar a tercerizar la conservaci6n de alrededor del 50%
del total de la red vial que administra, siendo la zona sur del Pais, por razones de
densidad de red y transito, la que mejor se presta en este esquema.
7.4. En el Subsector Portuario, las reiFormas tenderian a mejorar la eficiencia en la
provisi6n de los servicios portuarios, a mejorar la planificaci6n de las inversiones y
la eficiencia operacional y la administraci6n del equipo de mantenimiento; asi como
tambien, promover una mayor participacion del sector privado en aquellas
actividades portuarias que lo permitieran.
7.4.1. La Reforma Portuaria tuvo una considerable importancia para el Pais en mas
de un aspecto. La misma desarrolla um amplio y detallado marco juridico para la
actividad portuaria, el cual ha sido complementado por un conjunto de normas
reglamentarias adoptadas en los afios siguientes. Toda esa estructura se funda en
varios principios basicos, el primero de los cuales lo constituye el hecho de que el
desarrollo econ6mico del pais depende en gran medida de la existencia de servicios
portuarios eficientes y competitivos. A partir de esto surgen un conjunto de lineas
rectoras, incluyendo la continuidad de los servicios, la seguridad de la prestaci6n, la
regularidad de la misma, el logro de la maxima productividad y eficiencia, y la
mejor coordinaci6n y ejecuci6n de los servicios.
7.4.2. En cuanto a las obras realizadas por la DNH, la de mayor envergadura, la que
marc6 una nueva etapa en Piriapolis, con un puerto de yates y un puerto de
pasajeros, ha sido la Remodelaci6n del Puerto, que ha llevado a que su actual
capacidad sea de: (i) 120 embarcaciones deportivas, con 70 en amarre y 50 en
explanada; (ii) posibilidad de operar en Travellift, p6rtico elevador para botadas y
varadas de embarcaciones de hasta 100 toneladas de peso; (iii) capacidad de operar
ferries con transporte de autos y pasajeros; (iv) posibilidad de atraque de
embarcaciones de turismo de hasta 6 metros de calado.
7.4.3. La empresa Buquebus se encuentra operando en este puerto desde inicio del
presente aiio, realizando el servicio Buenos Aires - Piriapolis, con embarcaciones
con capacidad para 600 pasajeros y 108 autos, en forna directa. Se realizan 2
frecuencias diarias, estimandose que ingresan por mes, en temporada alta, a
Piriapolis 30.000 personas y unos 9.000 autom6viles.
7.4.4. En relaci6n al Puerto de La Plaloma, cuya ejecuci6n estaba prevista en el
marco del Proyecto y fue sacado debico a que su construccion estaba supeditada a la
instalaci6n de una planta pesquera en la zona, se piensa dar en concesi6n durante el
presente afio, con una inversi6n que podria alcanzar los U$S 140 millones,



50
incluyendo eq!ipamiento, dependiendo de la cantidad y caracteristicas de las
terminales portuarias que se propongan. El Puerto de La Paloma fue originalmente
disefiado como puerto pesquero y deportivo, y posee condiciones favorables para su
utilizaci6n como puerto comercial, con ventajas significativas sobre otros puex os d
ella region. Las condiciones naturales, permiten operaciones con buques de 15 pies
de calado y, potencialmente, podria alcanzarse los 40 pies de calado, con la
construccifn de una escollera de cierre y un canal de acceso de aproximadamente 2
km. de longitud.



PLAN DE ACCION
MTOP                 COMPONENTE                         ACCIONES                           PLAZO                      OBSERVACIONES
Estudio y Relevamiento de las   - Aprobaci6n por el Poder               - Diciembre 1998.         - Requiere Decreto.
Organizaciones Publicas y       Ejecutivo del Texto Ordenado.
Privadas de Transporte del PaLs y
de las Leyes, Decretos y        - Asignaci6n de responsabilidades          - Julio 1998.
Regdamentos que regulan su      en el ambito del MTOP a efctlos de
actuacion                       la actualizaci6n de Is Base de Datos
normativa y del marco institucional
del sector.
- Disefio e implementaci6n de la         - Enero 1999.
.-ed Inforn5teIa a   de perr.^.tr e!
acceso a la Base de Datos.
- Anaiisis de recomendaciones de          - Julio 1999.          - Depende de recursos.
indole institucional y eventual
implementaci6n de las mismas.
Estudio del Sistema de Cargas a   - Divulgaci6n de los resultados del      - Julio 1998.
los Usuarios de la Red Vial     estudio.
- Asignaci6n de recursos humanos          - Julio 1998.           - Requiere asignaci6n de RR.HH
a fin del sosteniminento de las bases
de datos y modelo de analisis
desarrollado.
- Analisis de las medidas tributarias   - Diciembre 1998.         - Requiere acuerdos con la
recomendadas por cl Consullor y                                   Autoridad Econ6mica y,
preparaci6n de las correspondienles                               evonilitalinente, leyes.
recomendaciones a ser lormuladas a
__la Autoridad Econ6mica.



DNV                 COMPONENTE                        ACCIONES                         PLAZO                      OBSERVACIONES
Ruta I                         Concesionar la construcci6n,                 2 ahios            El tramo de Ruta I entre
conservaci6n y explotaci6n de la                                Montevideo y Libertad (parte del
ruta entre Montevideo y Colonia                                 mismo financiado por el Proyecto
de Transporte I) ya esta adjudicado.
So espera que la concesi6n
comience en el pr6ximo mes de
setiembre por un periodo de 17
aflos.
En csto tramo el concesionario
debera construir tramos parciales de
carretera a los efectos de habilitar
completamente la doble via. lncluye
ademas la construcci6n del Puente
sobre el rio Santa Lucia.
El resto de la ruta esta siendo objeto
de un estudio de prefactibilidad.
Otras rutas                    Imnplementar una politica de                 2 ahios            En varias regiones del Pais ya so
mantenimiento que implique la                                  esta aplicando esta politica.
participaci6n del sector privado en                            Se espera que el 50% de ia red vial
las tareas del mantenimiento                                    nacional el mantenimiento este a
rutinario y extraordinario.                                    cargo del sector privado.
Se estA gestionando ante el BIRP
una nueva operaci6n de pr6stamo
(Segundo Proyecto de Transporte)
del cual una comnonente seria el
mantenimiento contratado.
Adecuacd6n de carreteras en    Implementar las recomendaciones           En ejecuci6n          Actualnente so estan implantando
zonas suburbanas               del estudio.                                                    las recomendaciones en la localidad
de Ecilda Paulier (San Jos6).
Se espera continuar con estas
recomendaciones en otras
localidades. El Segundo Proyecto
de Transporte prev6 una
comp_onentfe con lal finalidad.



DNV                  COMPONENTE                          ACCIONES                            PLAZO                        OBSERVACIONES
Implementaci6n de un sistema de  Implementar las recomendaciones             En ejecuci6n            Se han efectuado dos llamados a
administraci6n del trifico.      del estudio.                                                         licitaci6n producto de las
recomendaciones del consultor:
- Sistema de pesaje en rutas
nacionales (Se firm6 contrato en el
mes de febrero del presente aho y
se espera que el sisletna est6
funcionando a mediados del 1998)
(Financiamienwo local).
- Relevamiento estadistico para
conteos del transito (Se efectu6
llamado a licitaci6n)
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (F in a n c ia m ie n to   B ID ).
Implementaci6n de un Sistema de  Implementar las recomendaciones              En ejecuci6n           Actualmente la Divisi6n
Administraci6n del               del estudio.                                                        Mantenimiento de la DNV del
Mantenimiento (SAM)                                                                                   MTOP est" i*-p:eeIr'tando el              w
sistenia.
Se espera ampliar el contrato de la
firma consultora que desarroll6 el
sistema a los efectos de la
recolecci6n de los datos que lo
alimentan , lo que tambien seria
financiado por el BIRP a traves del
_  _ __________________________  ______________________________    ______________________________    Segundo  Proyecto   de  Transporto.
Implementaci6n de un Sistema de  Finalizar , estudio.                          Este aiio             Se in.plementarian las
Planiflcaci6n de Carreteras                                                                           recomendaciones del estudio a
(SIPLA)                                                                                               frav6s de la Divisi6n Inversiones de
la DNV del MTOP.
Racionalizacidn y reorganizaci6n   Implementar las recomendaciones           En ejecuci6n            Crear un Instituto de
de las tareas de investigaci6a y  del estudio.                                                       investigaciones. Se ha comeinzado
ensayos de suelos y materlales.                                                                      con algunos proycctos concretos de
investigaci6n.



54
ANEXO 1:  INVERSION TOTAL POR CATEGORIA
(Datos al 31/12/1997)
(Miles de U$S)
COSTO  FINAL 
ENDEUDAMIENTO APORTE
B. M. IXANBX LOCAL   TOTAL
CATEGORIA 1 A                                   35.802       34.761      31.402     101.966
Ruta I - Santiago Vazquez - Rinc6n del Pino - Tr. I, II, III,  LPI  17.732    17.193      16.058      50.984
Ruta S - 336km - 361km                                LPN          1.090       1.044         823       2.957
Ruta 7 - 396km600 - Puente s/Ao. Laguna del Negro     LPN             74          56          61         191
Cluta 14 - 285km5OO - 298km500 (Jose Pedro Varela)    LPN            426         399         288        1.113
Ruta 54 - 7km200 - 62km500 (Ruta 1 - Ruta 12)         LPN          1.088       1.037         894       3.019
Ruta 26 - 125km - 232km200                            LPN            323         298         247         868
Ruta 5 - 181km - 224km (Durazno - Carlos Reyles)      LPN          2.401       2.318       2.450       7.169
Ruta 3 - 288km - 308km100 (Ao. Grande)                LPN          1.207        1.175        937       3.319
Ruta 26 - 9Skm - 122km                                LPN             26         235         206         468
Ruta 19 - OkmOOO - 23km5OO (Ruta 14 - Ruta 42)        LPN             83          71          59         213
Ruta 19 - 23km500 - 36km700 (Ruta 42 - Ruta 6)        LPN             54          36          36         127
Ruta 8 - 299km - 321km                                LPN            462         443         146        1.051
Ruta 19 - 36km700 - 38km900 (Ruta 6 - Cerro Chato)    LPN            178         157         140         475
Ruta S - 361km - 379km                                LPN            943         901         848       2.692
Ruta 6 - 206km900 - 240km750                          LPN            193         160         171         524
Ruta 97 - Okm8OO - l6km500 (Carmelo - Ruta 12)        LPN             75          57          67         199
Ruta 3 - Ao. Las Piedras - Cerrillos                  LPI            579         602         520        1.700
Ruta S - 479kmOOO - 497km062.49                       LPI          1.427        1.371       1.149      3.946
Ruta 12 - Ismael Cortinas - Pasaje Superior           LPN            118          99          95         312
Ruta 3 - Contancia - Empalme Ruta 26                  LPI          1.693        1.674       1.318      4.685
Fum 56 - Florida - Ruta 6                             LPI          1.646       1.585       1.326       4.557
iuta 26 - Accesos a Rio Branco                         LPN           376          350         303       1.029
Puente y Accesos s/Ao. Pereira                      LPI(PR)         506          477         507       1.491
Puente s/Ao. Cufre                                  LPI(PR)         698          814         817       2.329
Puente y Accesos s/Ao. Pav6n y La Boyada            LPI(PR)         764          728         684       2.177
Puente s/Ao. La Boyada                              LPI(PR)          147         128         122         396
Puente s/Ao. Pan de Azdcar                          LPI(PR)         425          343         276       1.044
Puente y Accesos slAo. Chapicuy Chico                 LPI            672         650         529        1.851
Puente y Accesos s/Ao. Campanero Grande               LPI            394         359         328        1.081
CATEGORIA 1 B                                    1.998            0       1.331       3.329
Saldo Obras Prestamo 2238-UR                                       1.998           0        1.331      3.329



55
L t  ,,,-                                           -.  -  .        .m                     i--
CATEGORIA 2                                    6.758        6.558      S.448      18.764
Demolicion Dep6sito                                                 304         293         245         842
Cabecera Muelle B                                                    92          89          74        255
Tendido Cables Subterrineos                                         166         160         134         460
Edificio para Estaciones                                            230         222         186         638
Pavimentaci6n Muelles                                             3.251       3.162       2.620       9.033
Montaje Sub Estaciones Electricas                                   185         178         149         512
Accesos al Puerto                                                 1.774       1.724       1.430       4.928
Demolici6n Dep6sito 10                                              100          97          81         278
Construccion Tanque Agua Potable                                    152         145         122         419
Montaje Instal. Electricas Baja Tensi6n                             116         112          93         321
Refuerzo Muelles 8 y 9                                              388         376         314       1.078
CATEGORIA 3                                    8.610        8.329       7.350     24.289
Puerto de Punta del Este                                            802         750       1.065       2.617
Ampliaci6n Puerto de Piridpolis                                   7.808       7.579       6.285      21.672
CATEGORIA 4                                   18.054       17.454     24.693      60.201
Mantenimiento Caminos Departamentales - Canelones                 1.698       1.642       2.321       5.661
Mantenimiento Camninos Departamentales - Cerro Largo                932         902       1.276       3.110
Mantenimiento Caminos Departmmentales - Colonia                     970         937       1.327       3.234
Mantenimiento Caminos Departamentales - Durazno                   1.219       1.178       1.667       4.064
Manteniniiento Caminos Departamentales - Artigas                  1.036       1.001       1.417       3.454
Mantenimiento Caminos Departamentales - Florida                   1.134       1.096       1.551       3.781
Mantenimiento Caminos Departamentales - Flores                      553         535         756       1.844
Mantenimiento Caminos Departamentales - Lavalleja                 1.232       1.192       1.685       4.109
Mantenimiento Caminos Departamentales - Maldonado                   767         743       1.050       2.560
Manteniniiento Caminos Departamentales - Paysandii                1.162       1.123       1.589       3.874
Mantenimiento Caninos Departamentales - Rfo Negro                   971         938       1.328       3.237
Mantenimiento Caminos Departamentales - Rivera                      645         623         881       2.149
Manteiniiento Caninos Departamentales - Rocha                       799         772       1.093       2.664
Mantenimiento Caminos Departamemntales - Salto                    1.638       1.583       2.240       5.461
4antenimiento Caminos Departamentales - San Josd                  1.070        1.034      1.464       3.568
Mantenimiento Caminos Departamentales - Soriano                     549         531         751       1.831
Mantenimiento Caminos Departarnentales - Tacuaremb6                 910         881       1.246       3.037
Mantenimiento Caminos Departamentales - Treinta y Tres              769         743       1.051       2.563
CATEGORIA 5 A                                    1340          892          0       2.232
Adquisici6n de Caniones                                             250         167           0         417
Adquisici6n de Semiremolques                                        165         110           0         275
Sub Estaciones Media/Baja Tensi6n                                   575         383           0         958
Suministro Instalaciones Electricas Baja Tensi6n                    350         232           0         582



56
CATEGORA 5 B                                        165         110           0          275
Adquisici6n Equipos de Laboratorio                                   100           66           0          166
Adquisici6n de Hardware y Software                                    65           44           0          109
CATEGORUA 5 C                                      469            0           0          469
Equipo Inspecci6n de Puentes                                         313            0           0         313
Grda Hidraulica                                                      156            0           0          156
CATEGORIA 6 A                                     1.496         987         515        2.999
Consultornas ANP                                                     437          288         158          883
Base de Datos de Recursos Humanos - G. 1                              34           22          11           67
Inventario de Equipos, Maquinaria y Utilaje - G. 2                    37           25          12           75
Qlase de Datos de Flujo Documental - G. 3                             110           73          37         220
Mejoramiento del Sistema de Costos - G.4                              150          98          51          299
Centro de Informaci6n de Estudios Portuarios - G 6                   399          263         135         797
Mejoramiento del Sistema de Compras y Abastecimiento - S.1            88           58          30          176
Fortalecimiento de la Divisi6n Comercial- S. 2                        76           49          25          150
Tarifas - S. 3                                                        47           31          16           94
Revisi6n Plan Maestro Pueno de Montevideo                             119          78          40          237
CATEGORIA 6 B                                     1.420         939         505        2.864
Consultorfas MTOP                                                     65           43          22          130
P.R.A.I.M. - Apoyo Intendencias                                       170         112          42          323
Consultorfas Puerto de Punta del Este                                101           67          36          204
Direcci6n de obra Ruta 1                                             201          133          75          408
Consultorfa Puerto Pirilpolis                                         58           38          20          116
Asesoramiento Puente s/RIo Santa Lucia                                110          74          37          221
Investigaci6n y Ensayo de Suelos                                      46           31          18           95
t )istema de Administraci6n del Mantenimiento                           86           56          33          174
Fortalecimiento DNV                                                   40           26          15           81
Proyecto de Infraestructura Transporte Productos Forestales           131          86          51          268
Adecuaci6n Carreteras en Zonas Suburbanas                             160         105          61          326
Cargas a los Usuarios Red Vial                                        77           51          28          156
Planificaci6n de Carreteras                                           41           28          16           85
Estudio Juridico Institucional                                        118          77          45          240
Consultorfa para Transporte de Productos Forestales                    17          11           7           35
CATEGORIA 6 C                                    3.867            0           0        3.867
Trabajos Preliminares Puente Colonia - Bs. As.                        136           0           0          136
Puente Colonia - Bs. As. - U.N.D.P.                                  911            0           0          911
Consultorfa Puente Colonia - Bs. As.                                2.709           0           0        2.709
Harvard Institute for Int. Development                                III           0           0          111



57
CATEGORIA 7 A                                      222         122          49         393
Capacitaci6n - G.5                                                   222         122          49         393
CATEGORIA 7 B                                       57          38           0          95
8vo. Seminario de Desembolsos en Washington                            3           2           0           5
Congreso Ferroviario Mundial                                           4           2           0           6
Seminario sobre Ingenieria y Gesti6n Portuaria - Espania              11           7           0          18
Seminario sobre Anilisis y Negociaciones Proyectos COT y COP           9           6           0          15
Seminario regional de Desembolsos - Buenos Aires                       1           1           0           2
ler. Curso de Impacto Ambiental - Mejico                              3            2           0           5
Ira. Conferencia sobre Gestion de Carreteras - Espaffa                10           7           0          17
Curso sobre Conservacion de Carreteras                                 3           2           0           5
Programa de Intercambio Profesional IPC - Virginia                    13           8           0          21
DIFERENCIA                                       541        3.710       4.626       8.877
TOTAL                                      80.800       73.900      75.920     230.620



