Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3021 UR
                       (Transport Project I)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE PUERTOS
                        Dated April 6, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3021 UR
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April  6,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and ADMINISTRACION
NACIONAL DE PUERTOS (ANP).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic Oriental  del  Uruguay (the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to eighty million eight
hundred  thousand  dollars   ($80,800,000),   on   the  terms  and
conditions set forth in the  Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that ANP agrees to undertake  such  obligations toward the Bank as
are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  ANP is an  autonomous state-owned enterprise responsible
for the administration and  operation of the Borrower's commercial
ports;
     (C)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
Page  2
between the Borrower, acting  through  MTOP,  and ANP, part of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available to ANP  on  the  terms  and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (D)  ANP warrants and represents  that it is authorized under
the laws of the Borrower to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS ANP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01. Wherever  used  in  this  Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several  terms defined in the Loan
Agreement,  the  Preamble  to   this  Agreement  and  the  General
Conditions (as so  defined)  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth,  and  the  term  "Fiscal  Year"  means the twelve-month
period corresponding to any  of  ANP's  fiscal years, which period
coincides with the calendar year.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. ANP declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B.1 and C.4 of the Project
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate    administrative,    financial,    engineering    and
environmental  practices,  and  shall  provide,  or  cause  to  be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required on its part  for the carrying out of such
Parts B.1 and C.4 of the Project.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts B.1 and  C.4  of  the  Project  shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. ANP shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Parts B.1 and C.4 of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  ANP  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, ANP shall not take  or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  ANP  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with  regard to progress of Parts B.1
and C.4 of the Project,  the  performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  ANP shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
Parts B.1  and  C.4  of  the  Project,  the  accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by ANP of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. (a) Not  later  than  June  30, 1989, ANP shall
Page  3
have entered into  an  agreement,  satisfactory  to the Bank, with
one or more  technical  assistance  institutions acceptable to the
Bank, whereby  ANP  and  such  institution  or  institutions shall
undertake to cooperate  in establishing, administering, coordinat-
ing and  implementing  the  necessary  training  programs  for the
successful carrying out of Part C.4 of the Project.
     (b)  ANP shall: (i) take, or  cause  to be taken, any and all
actions necessary for strengthening  ANP's  Training Center, so as
to enable ANP to  successfully  carry  out  its operations and, in
particular, Part C.4 of the Project; (ii) establish and thereafter
maintain, in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, a
Training Steering  Committee  vested  with  the  responsibility of
advising ANP's authorities in  respect of ANP's training policies,
strategies and priorities  and,  in  particular, on the successful
carrying out of Part C.4  of  the Project; and (iii) establish and
thereafter maintain, in  form  and  substance  satisfactory to the
Bank, a Technical Unit vested with the responsibility of procuring
goods, works and services required for  the carrying out by ANP of
Parts B.1 and C.4 of the Project.
     (c)  ANP shall  provide,  or  cause  to  provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities,  services  and other resources, and
otherwise shall take or  cause  to  be  taken any and all actions,
necessary so as to enable  each  of the Center, Committee and Unit
referred to in paragraph  (b)  above  to  carry out its respective
responsibilities in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of ANP
     Section 3.01.  (a)  ANP  shall  carry  on  its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial and  environmental  practices  under  the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     (b)  Pursuant to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section:  (i) ANP
declares its commitment to  the  MTOP  Action  Plan and shall take
all such steps or measures  on  its  part as shall be necessary to
ensure that each action  specified  under  the MTOP Action Plan in
respect of ANP is taken or  executed  so as to produce the effects
called for under such Plan  by the dates specified thereunder; and
(ii) ANP shall, in  carrying  out  its operations, take all action
necessary to achieve the Operational Performance Targets set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such targets may be changed by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank and ANP as a result of
an exchange of  views  pursuant  to  Section  9.01  (a) (i) of the
General Conditions and Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. ANP shall at all times operate and maintain its
machinery, equipment and other  property,  and  from time to time,
promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs  and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
environmental practices.
     Section 3.03. ANP shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make  other  provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and  in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  ANP  shall  maintain records and accounts,
including  separate  accounts  reflecting  all  expenditures under
Parts  B.1  and  C.4  of  the  Project,  adequate  to  reflect  in
accordance with  sound  accounting  practices  its  operations and
financial condition.
Page  4
     (b)  ANP shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  Fiscal  Year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  six  (6) months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ANP shall earn, for  each  of  its  Fiscal Years 1990, 1991, 1992,
1993, 1994, and 1995  and  each  Fiscal Year thereafter, an annual
rate of return of no less  than  2.0%, 2.6%, 2.9%, 3.3%, 3.7%, and
4.0%, respectively, of  the  average  current  net  value of ANP's
fixed assets in operation.
     (b)  Before September 30 in each of its Fiscal Years starting
with Fiscal  Year  1989,  ANP  shall,  on  the  basis of forecasts
prepared by ANP and  satisfactory  to  the Bank, review whether it
would meet the requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph (a) of this
Section in respect of such  year,  if  any, and the next following
Fiscal Year and shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  the results of such
review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  ANP  would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph  (a) of this Section for ANP's
Fiscal Years covered by such  review,  ANP shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including,  without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or levels of its  tariff rates, or requests for such
adjustments, if warranted) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               ANP's net operating income  for  the Fiscal Year in
               question by  one  half  (1/2)  of  the  sum  of the
               current  net  value   of   ANP's  fixed  assets  in
               operation at the beginning  and  at the end of that
               Fiscal Year.
         (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total operat-
               ing revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related to  operations, including adminis-
               tration, adequate  maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
               a straight-line basis at  a  rate  per annum of the
               average current gross  value  of ANP's fixed assets
               in operation acceptable to  the Bank, but excluding
               interest and other charges on debt.
          (v)  The average  current  gross  value  of  ANP's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one-half
               (1/2) of the sum of  the gross value of ANP's fixed
               assets in operation at the beginning and at the end
Page  5
               of the Fiscal Year,  as  valued  from time to time,
               but not less frequently  than  yearly as of the end
               of the  corresponding  Fiscal  Year,  in accordance
               with sound and  consistently  maintained methods of
               valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
         (vi)  The term "current net  value  of ANP's fixed assets
               in operation" means the  gross value of ANP's fixed
               assets in operation less  the amount of accumulated
               depreciation,  as  valued  from  time  to  time  in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ANP shall maintain for each of  its Fiscal Years 1990, 1991, 1992,
1993, 1994, and 1995 and  each  Fiscal Year thereafter, a ratio of
total operating expenses  to  total  operating revenues not higher
than 87%, 84%, 82%, 80%, 80% and 79%, respectively.
     (b)  Before  September  30  in  each  of  its  Fiscal  Years,
starting with its Fiscal  Year  1989,  ANP  shall, on the basis of
forecasts prepared by ANP and  satisfactory to the Bank, ascertain
whether it would meet the  requirements set forth in paragraph (a)
of this Section in respect  of  such  year,  if any,  and the next
following Fiscal Year, and shall  furnish  to the Bank the results
of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If  any  review  shows  that  ANP  would  not  meet  the
requirements set forth in paragraph  (a) of this Section for ANP's
Fiscal Years covered by such  review,  ANP shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including,  without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or levels of its  tariff rates, or requests for such
adjustment, if warranted) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the  purposes  of  this  Section,  the  terms "total
operating expenses" and "total  operating  revenues" have the same
respective meaning stipulated under  paragraph (d) of Section 4.02
of this Agreement, and  the  average  current gross value of ANP's
fixed assets in  operation  shall  be  calculated as stipulated in
sub-paragraph (v) of such paragraph (d).
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ANP shall not incur any debt,  unless  the net revenues of ANP for
the Fiscal Year immediately preceding  the date of such incurrence
or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such
incurrence, whichever is the greater,  shall be at least 1.5 times
the estimated maximum  debt  service  requirements  of ANP for any
succeeding Fiscal Year on all  debt  of ANP, including the debt to
be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of ANP
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to  operations  adjusted  to  take  account of
                    ANP's tariff rates  in  effect  at the time of
                    the incurrence of  debt  even though they were
                    not in effect  during  the twelve-month period
Page  6
                    to which  such  revenues  relate  and net non-
                    operating income; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.05. ANP hereby undertakes to restructure its tariff
by not later than March 30,  1990, based upon a new costing system
satisfactory to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of ANP thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify ANP thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the  provisions  of  this Agreement, as the
same may be amended  from  time  to  time,  shall continue in full
force and effect  notwithstanding  any  cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
Page  7
     For ANP:
          Administraci‡n Nacional de Puertos
          Rambla 25 de Agosto de 1825 No. 160
          Montevideo - Uruguay
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               NAVEANP                        UY 22351
               Montevideo - Uruguay
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ANP,  may  be taken or executed, severally,
by the President of ANP  or  such  other  person or persons as the
Board of Directors  of  ANP  shall  designate  in writing, and ANP
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE PUERTOS
                    By /s/ Eugenio Baroffio
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Contracts for civil works and  for goods shall be grouped, to
the extent possible, so as  to  make bidding packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $2,000,000  or  more,  in the case of civil
works, and the equivalent  of  $300,000  or  more,  in the case of
goods.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  8
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Uruguay may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Computer  hardware  and   software   may  be  procured  under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures
on the basis of evaluation  and  comparison of bids invited from a
list of at  least  three  qualified  suppliers  eligible under the
Guidelines and in  accordance  with  the  procedures  set forth in
Sections I and  II  of  the  Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Subject to 3 below, goods, other  than those referred to in 1
above, estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of  $50,000 or more and
less than the equivalent of $300,000, and civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with  procedures  satisfactory to the Bank,
provided, however, that the contracts so awarded shall not exceed,
in the aggregate, the  equivalent  of  $1,300,000,  in the case of
goods, and of $23,300,000, in the case of works.
3.   Items, other than  computer  hardware  and  software or which
cannot be grouped so as to  form bidding packages of $50,000 equi-
valent or more, or  groups  of  said  items estimated to cost less
than the equivalent  amount  of  $50,000  per  contract,  up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed  the equivalent of $900,000, may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
4.   The provisions of Part  A.2 of this Schedule notwithstanding,
goods shall, to the extent  possible,  be further grouped so as to
form bidding packages estimated to  cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  (i)  each  contract  to  be awarded in
accordance with the procedures  described  in Part A.1 hereof, and
to each of the first five contracts, irrespective of the estimated
value thereof, awarded under each of the procedures referred to in
Part C.1 or C.2 or  C.3  hereof,  and  (ii) if the Bank shall have
objected to awards made, or procedures followed, in respect of one
or more of said first five  contracts, to the additional number of
contracts  awarded  under  such  procedures  that  the  Bank shall
determine  if  the  aforesaid   objectives   have  been  made  the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made  out  of  the  Special  Accounts,  such  procedures  shall be
modified to ensure that the  two  conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished  to  the  Bank  prior  to the making of the
first payment out  of  the  Special  Accounts  in  respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to be  made  out  of the Special Accounts, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
Page  9
furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  4  to the Loan
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (d) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist ANP in  carrying  out Parts B.1 and C.4 of
the Project, ANP shall  employ  starting  not  later than June 30,
1989, consultants whose  qualifications,  experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall  be  satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the  Bank  on  the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of  Consultants  by  World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published  by  the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                  Operational Performance Targets
Commodity Group and Port Terminal       Ship Loading Rates
                                TEU per crane/hr  TEU per ship/day
1.   Container traffic           1990     1995     1990     1995
     (a)  at container terminal    15       18      160      200
     (b)  at multipurpose           9       11       80      100
          terminal
2.   General Cargo               ton/gang/hour       ship/day
                                 1990     1995     1990     1995
     (a)  break bulk               12       14      400      450
     (b)  palletized               36       40    1,200    1,400
"Ton" means metric ton.
"Gang" means port labor assigned  by  ANP to a ship's hatch(es) or
crane(s).
"TEU"  means  the  container  volume  unit  known  as  Twenty feet
Equivalent Unit.
"TEU Per Crane/Hr" means  the  annual  average  TEU(s) per hour in
respect of the aggregate port and ship cranes.
"TEU Per  Ship/Day"  means  the  annual  average  TEU(s) loaded or
unloaded per individual ship/day.
"Ship/Day"  means  a  single  working  day  as  applicable  to any
individual ship.
