Report No. PID8734
Project Name                     Bulgaria-Health Insurance
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Population, Health & Nutrition
Project ID                       P055157
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH
National Health Insurance Fund and
Ministry of Finance
5, Sveta Nedelya Square, Sofia, Romania
Contact Person: Ms. Denitsa Sacheva - Atanassova
Head of the Minister's Office
Tel: 359 -2 - 930 1112
Email: Dsacheva@Mh.Government.Bg
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 18, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 2, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 22, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
According to the CAS, economic dislocation has hit the population of
Bulgaria hard. Limited fiscal resources have sharply constrained the
Government's ability to address the needs of the poor. In the short term,
the Government's efforts are focused on ensuring that the costs of
transition are socially sustainable and reducing the number of families
which fell into poverty during the recent crisis. In addition,
demographics point to a rapidly aging population that will have special
healthcare needs. This places a premium on reforming and diversifying the
pension system and overhauling the health care delivery and health
insurance systems. Accordingly, the Government's strategy lays out the
following key objectives for the reform of social protection systems: (a)
to ensure adequate protection of clearly identified vulnerable population
groups through improved targeting and provision of meaningful benefits and
quality services; (b) to ensure the medium- and longer-run fiscal
sustainability of the system in a manner consistent with economic growth
objectives in a market-oriented economy; and (c) to increase fiscal
transparency and reduce duplication and fragmentation among the various
social protection programs.The Government has taken the first steps
towards meeting these objectives. The challenge is to build popular
support for the reforms and calibrate them in such a way that they would
succeed in making the systems financially and operationally viable and at
the same time be acceptable politically and socially.The Government's
medium-term agenda encompasses action on health in poorer regions aimed at
reducing disparities. In health, the authorities have asked the World
Health Organization (WHO) for assistance to define a comprehensive health
sector strategy. The aim is to enhance sector efficiency, increase
resources allocated to the sector by tapping alternative sources of
financing, and target public resources to the most cost-effective



interventions.A new law on health insurance was passed by Bulgarian
Parliament in June, 1998, with technical assistance/policy input from the
Bank. Initially, this law provided for the collection of insurance
premiums to commence on July 1, 1999, and for the health insurance
financing to begin operations by January 1, 2000 for ambulatory care
services and by January 1, 2001 for hospital services. Collection of
premiums started as scheduled. However, later in the year the Bulgarian
Government decided to postpone the effective start of the reform by 6
months - July 1, 2000 for ambulatory care, and moving to July 1, 2001 for
hospital services. This rescheduling is giving the Government more
valuable time to prepare the startup of the new payment mechanism.In
connection to the above, a National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) was
established. Twenty-eight regional offices have also been set up.
Modifications to the premium rates for social security and unemployment
insurance have been made to provide the fiscal room for the introduction
of the health insurance premiums. These premiums, including 3 percent
each from employers and employees, are currently being collected by the
National Social Security Institute, under contract to the NHIF.     A PHRD
grant has been secured for a new Bank operation, and the Australian Health
Insurance Commission was contracted to provide project preparation
activities. This work concluded in early August, 1999. Among the areas
examined were: financial modeling of various options for the health
insurance system, examination of administrative and information systems
needs, definition of a basic package of services, examination of legal
issues, and public information. At the time, the project team highlighted
the need for immediate and continuing support to the NHIF to assist in the
implementation of health insurance.Initial steps were also taken to
develop quality primary health services and a financially sound system
augur well for improvements in the health status of the populace. The
Minister of Health asked the Bank team managing the Health Sector
Restructuring Project (HSRP) to modify the primary health care component
of this project to direct the intervention more toward rural and remote
areas of the country, thereby targeting the project more to the poor.
After discussions with the Ministry and the NHIF management, the analysis
and material provided indicated that this would be a feasible approach and
the team gave its no objection. Currently, the official letter from the
Ministry of Finance has been received requesting the formal Amendment to
the Loan Agreement, and this is being reviewed within the Bank.In recent
months the Bank worked with the Swiss Government to arrange a grant from
the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) in support of
NHIF. The Swiss Grant totals CHF 3 million and will be implemented
through a Bank-administered recipient-executed Trust Fund. It will
provide for technical assistance and training to NHIF staff and its senior
management. Most recently, the NHIF Executive Director was invited and
agreed to take the post of Minister of Health. Under acting arrangements
NHIF will be managed by one of his deputies for the next 16 months. This
provides for a good link between the current Bank HSRP and the two planned
components of the new Bank loan: one in direct support to NHIF, and one
in support to MOH to address the impacts of introduction of health
insurance on the healthcare system.A recently released Ministry of Health
Programme, describing short to medium term objectives for the health
system for the period January 2000 through April 2001, highlights the
following key tasks:Completing the development of secondary legislation
under the basic health care reform acts;Transition to a new financing
system and restructuring the health care;Raising the awareness of health
- 2 -



professionals and the public on the health care reform in order to avoid
social tension and to acquire broad support to the health care
reform;Continuation of the establishment and structuring of the National
Health Insurance Fund;Development of human resources engaged in the health
care system through capacity building, improving qualification and
qualification courses.The Government's main priorities for overcoming the
negative trends in the nation's health and adaptation and accession of the
Bulgarian health system to the EU are as follows:1. Mitigating the
negative trends in the nation's health.n Reducing infant mortality;n
Limiting morbidity and mortality from socially important diseases (CVD,
neoplasms, trauma and intoxication, diabetes, tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS and
others).n Limiting occupational health risks and increasing safety at
work.n Restricting health risks to disadvantaged social groups (ethnic
minorities, elderly, unemployed, etc).n Improving the mental health of the
population.2. Enhancing health system effectiveness through institutional
and structural changes in health services production and delivery.n
Reorganizing PHC delivery and adapting the system to EU standards.n
Improving specialized outpatient care delivery.n Reorganizing hospital
care delivery.n Reorganizing haemotransfusional network.n Reorganizing the
Public health servicesn Reorganizing emergency care health services.n
Reorganizing the pharmaceutical sector.3. Promoting the quality of
medical caren Development of standards, criteria and indicators for health
care quality;n Improving management of health;n Updating equipment and
premises of health care establishments;n Development of unified
information system and integration of the telecommunication system in
health to the national and the European systems;f Development of
evaluation capacity for medical technologies and introduction of good
medical practice guidelines;4. Increasing health system effectiveness
through change of the financing systemn Completing the establishment and
the development of the structural units of the National Health Insurance
Fund and its territorial structures and developing its human resources;f
Development of new investment policy and improving the financing with
within MOH;n Introduction of contracting system between the financing body
and the health care providers;n Introducing a system for medical and
financial control;5. Adapting human resources in health to the new
economic circumstances and the institutional and structural changes in
healthn Pre-qualification and redistribution of medical staff;f
Approximation of the curriculum with those of the EU countries and
providing the grounds for free movement of specialists;n Creating
possibilities for constant professional training and participation in
research activities;
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to stop deterioration of the health
status of the population and gradually improve health status to Western
European standards. This project seeks to do this by supporting, both
financially and through expertise, the introduction of national health
insurance in Bulgaria.  The project will finance both the administrative
and information systems needs of the Health Insurance Fund, and the
consequential impact of the introduction of health insurance on the health
system generally.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is the only major development lender still engaged in the health
sector in Bulgaria. Bank staff have been involved in the national health
-3 -



insurance initiative for many years, providing policy advice and
assistance to the Government of Bulgaria in a variety of areas, including
development of the health insurance legislation, addressing key issues
related to NHI implementation (with the assistance of the PHRD grant), and
focusing on critical organizational and sustainability issues. The Bank
has the capacity to mobilize both the significant financial and
intellectual resources required to support the successful implementation
of national health insurance. By focusing the discussion on key policy
issues through the way in which the loan is designed, the Bank will also
have the leverage to address some of the critical structural problems that
have confounded health reform initiatives in many countries.
4. Description
As noted above the key constraints on this project are both the time-frame
that has been established for the implementation of health insurance, and
the need to stay engaged with the Ministry and NHIF on policy issues. The
key components of this project are as follows:
1. NHIF information systems development
2. NHIF training, public information and technical assistance
3. Support to ambulatory care sector
4. Support to hospital sector
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government 13.38
IBRD 60.62
IDA
Total Project Cost 74
6. Implementation
The overall responsibility for project coordination and implementation
will lie with the Project Implementation Unit, located in the National
Health Insurance Fund.    The PIU located in the Ministry of Health
(constituted for the first health project) will continue to provide
services in relation to Components 3 and 4 of the new project.Close
coordination will be maintained with other potential donors during the
life of the project, and will play an important role in successful project
implementation. Regular donor conferences will be held, donor
representatives will be invited to participate on supervision missions,
and aide memoires will be shared with donors.
7. Sustainability
The project is designed in such a way that the major structural changes
that are required are made either before or by utilizing project funding.
This, plus the fact that the loans themselves are funding part of the
transition costs, increases the likelihood that the structural changes
will be sustained.The other key area is the sustainability of the health
insurance system itself. Here, the substantial contribution to the
establishment of appropriate administrative and information systems, as
well as the large institutional building/technical assistance component
should contribute to a well-managed and fully functioning health insurance
system that is able to fund high-quality services on an ongoing basis. The
following table indicates the key revenue and expenditure projections for
the NHIF. It shows that, once a steady state is reached (likely by 2002
or the next year), there should be sufficient income to cover ongoing
- 4 -



health care expenditures and administrative expenses. A key assumption is
an increase in the contribution rate for health insurance from the current
6 percent to 12 percent of income. However, this will offset tax revenue
currently used to fund these expenditures within the MOH budget, so should
be revenue neutral.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Through the existing health and social insurance administration project,
the project team has gained a good appreciation of the strengths and
weaknesses of the Bulgarian health and social security systems. The
proposed project provides the NHIF with both the expertise and the
financial resources to address a number of key policy issues. The
existing health project has greatly improved the infrastructure of the
health system (especially in the areas of emergency medical services and
blood transfusion, but also in the area of primary health care), but it is
clear from this project that additional resources are required in several
areas to resolve the key structural issues that plague the health system
today:n significant over-capacity and over-employment, including
inefficient skills mix of health personnel;n inequitable distribution of
health care funding to different regions of the country;f inadequate
targeting of services to those most in need;n uncertainties in funding to
providers, and inconsistent availability to patients.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The exact nature of the support to the hospital and
ambulatory care systems is being discussed with the counterparts and will
be finalized during the pre-appraisal mission, scheduled during March,
2000. Once this is defined, it will be possible to assess the
environmental impact of the proposed project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Dominic S. Haazen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 5, 2000.
- 5-



