Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 20339 BUL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$63.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR A
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
May 30, 2000
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 24, 2000)
Currency Unit = Bulgarian Lev
ILevi = US$ 0.4622
US$ 1 = Lev 2.1634
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHIC    Australian Health Insurance Commission       IS        International Sopping
APL      Adaptable Program Loan                       MLSP    Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
BMA      Bulgarian Medical Association               MOF       Ministry of Finance
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                 MOH       Ministry of Health
CEGA    Creating Effective Grassroots Alternatives   MW        Minor Works
CoM      Cabinet of Ministers                        NCB       National Competitive Bidding
CQ       Consultants' Qualification                  NGO       Non-Government Organization
DC       Direct Contracting                          NHIF    National Health Insurance Fund
EA       Executing Agent                             NS        National Shopping
Organization for Economic Cooperation and
ECA      Europe and Central Asia                     OECD    Development
EMS      Emergency Medical Services                   PAD      Project Appraisal Document
EU       European Union                               PCU      Project Coordination Unit
FM       Financial Management                         PHC      Primary Health Care
Population and Human Resources Development
FMS      Financial Management Status                  PHRD    (Japanese Grant)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                       PMR      Project Management Report
GOB      Government of Bulgaria                       PMU      Project Management Unit
GP       General Practitioner                        POM       Project Operational Manual
GPN      General Procurement Notice                  QCBS    Quality and Cost-Based Selection
HIF      Health Insurance Fund                        SDC      Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
HNP      Health, Nutrition and Population             SFB      Selection under Fixed Budget
HSRP    Health Sector Restructuring Project           SIL      Specific Investment Loan
International Bank for Reconstruction and
IBRD    Development                                   SOE      Statement of Expenses
IC       Individual Consultants                       TA       Technical Assistance
ICB      International Competitive Bidding            UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
United States Agency for International
IDA      International Development Association        USAID   Development
IFAC     International Federation of Accountants      VAT      Value Added Tax
IMF      International Monetary Fund                  WHO    World Health Organization
IPR      Implementation Progress Report
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:    Annette Dixon
Task Team Leader:    Dominic S. Haazen



BULGARIA
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       10
3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
4. Institutional and-implementation arrangements                                       11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            12
4. Indications of borrower comnmitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            14
2. Financial                                                                           14
3. Technical                                                                           14
4. Institutional                                                                       16
5. Environment                                                                         17
6. Social                                                                              18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      20
2. Critical risks                                                                      21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      23



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            23
2. Other                                                                               24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          26
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         41
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   42
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               47
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       51
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     69
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   70
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  71
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             73
Annex 11: Financial Management                                                           75
Annex 12: Social Analysis                                                                79
Annex 13: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                      97
Annex 14: Progress on Health Reform                                                      100
MAP(S)
Republic of Bulgaria -- IBRD 26532R



BULGARIA
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: May 30, 2000                                Team Leader: Dominic S. Haazen
Country Manager/Director: Andrew N. Vorkink       Sector Manager/Dirictor: Annette Dixon
Project ID: P055157                               Sector(s): HY - Other Population, Health & Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
3 Loan         El Credit      EO Grant         O Guarantee     El Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $63.3
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:-    Source                                   Local        Foreign         Totalt
GOVERNMENT                                                     18.62           5.04         23.66
IBRD                                                           14.95          48.35         63.30
Total:                                                        33.57           53.39         86.96
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address: 5, Sveta Nedelya Square, Sofia, Bulgaria
Contact Person: Ms. Denitsa Sacheva - Atanassova
Head of the Office of the Minister of Health
Tel: 359 -2 - 930 1112              Fax:                  Email: Dsacheva@Mh.Government.Bg
Other Agency(ies):
National Health Insurance Fund
Address: 1, Krichim Street, 1407 Sofia, Bulgaria
Contact Person: Dr. Boyan Doganov, Head of PMU
Tel: 359-2-965 91 08             Fax: 359-2-965 92 28                Email: Bdoganov@Intemet-Bg.Net
Estimated disbursements Bank FYIUS$M):
FY           2001        2002        2003        2004 -    2005
Annual     6.4          17.8         19.4       13.3         6.4
Cumulative     6.4         24.2         43.6        56.9       63.3
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2000  Expected closing date:  09/30/2005
XcS PADFm R   MOh ZVW



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to support the Government of Bulgaria in implementing a fundamental
reform of its health sector, designed to improve access to quality health services and ensure financial and
operational sustainability.  Through revised funding, provider organization, and provider payment
mechanisms, as well as the formulated package of benefits, the health system will provide better access to
more effective and efficient health care and health promotion, especially for disadvantaged population
groups and those in the remote areas.
This project forms an integral part of an overall Framework Program for health reform which includes
substantial Government investments, as well as technical assistance support from other extemal agencies.
This program is described in Section C and Annex 2 of this document.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
A set of key indicators is selected to track the extent to which the development objectives of the project are
being met. The selection of indicators is based on a detailed decision-tree and logframe analysis for the
project. The criteria used to select indicators include ensuring that: (a) indicative measures are available
for outputs from each of the project components; (b) the selected indicators measured actual outputs, rather
than simply measuring the number of items procured under the project; (c) all major issues and
conditionalities will be monitored regularly; (d) the indicators, while being easy to measure, provide insight
into the performance of the project; and (e) indicators are relatively small in number, so as to be meaningful
for the project management while not being overly burdensome to collect.  Given these criteria, the
indicators are designed to give a sense of how the project is doing, rather than to measure every possible
potential indicator.
A nationally-representative survey, will be carried out at the beginning and toward the end of the project to
address the question of whether the health reform is having an impact on morbidity and mortality rates in
Bulgaria.   While the project cannot be held wholly responsible for health status changes, as many
non-project variables affect health status, it is important for the Government to monitor these trends and to
change strategy if required. These indicators will be an integral part of the strategy to measure project
performance.
The key performance indicators for the project are detailed in Annex 1. The primary objectives of (a)
improving access and effectiveness of health care, and (b) ensuring financial and operational sustainability
in the health sector will need to be achieved within the Government's current budget ceiling of 4.5% of
GDP (excluding the loan). Once the reforms have substantially taken hold and efficiencies realized within
the system, the adequacy of health sector financing will be analyzed.
Specific indicators address the activities under each of the sub-objectives. Under (a) access, indicators are
specified for the following areas of activity: increasing access to services, improving the quality of services,
improving capacity. of providers, and improving communications with the public. Under b): ensuring
financial and operational sustainability, indicators or qualitative analyses are specified for: ensuring
financial sustainability through labor adjustment, improving information flows, and ensuring a
fully-functioning health insurance system.
-2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 17655-BUL         Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/09/98
The Bank's overall assistance strategy for Bulgaria aims at providing direct support to the Government in
three priority areas: (a) the restructuring of social protection programs; (b) the improvement of incentives
for private investment by further liberalizing trade and market structures, removing impediments to foreign
investment, and facilitating private ownership of land; and (c) the implementation of European Union
accession-related institutional and legislative reforms. The CAS also indicates that special attention will be
given to support the Government's effort to fight poverty and develop human capital. The relative priority
of social sector programs in the strategy reflects the need to prepare the country for EU membership
pursuant to the agenda now emerging in the Accession Partnership Agreement and the National Strategy on
Accession to the EU.
In health, the CAS aims to support the Government's efforts on a number of fronts. The key areas with
respect to the health sector include assistance in:
* putting into place an efficient and sustainable health financing regime through an effective health
insurance system and an increased role for the private sector;
* reducing structural inefficiencies by reducing excess capacity, strengthening sector management at the
central and local levels, and promoting competition among providers;
* increasing the efficiency of public expenditures on health by prioritizing the most essential health
services;
* helping the Government to generate dialogue among the stakeholders, including policy makers and the
public, and to build consensus on reform options.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1. Background.
The economic transition towards a more market-oriented economy in Bulgaria, which began in late 1989,
has been difficult. It has been characterized by the emergence of previously unknown unemployment, falls
in real wages, and increased poverty. The resultant limitations on fiscal resources, coupled with changing
demographics (increased needs due to a rapidly aging population), have constrained the Government's
ability to address societal needs. The Government's short-term strategy has focused on both ensuring that
the costs of the transition are socially sustainable and on reducing the number of families living in poverty.
The longer-term strategy points to the need to reform and diversify both the health care delivery/financing
and the pension systems. The following key objectives for the reform of the social protection systems are
the foundations of the Government's strategy:
*   to ensure the medium- and longer-term fiscal sustainability of the system in a manner that is
consistent with economic growth objectives in a market-oriented economy;
*   to increase fiscal transparency and reduce duplication and fragmentation among the various social
protection systems; and,
*   to ensure adequate protection of clearly identified vulnerable population groups through improved
targeting and provision of meaningful benefits and quality services.
-3 -



2.2 Sector Issues.
The health system has been analyzed by the Ministry of Health and others, and found to be inadequate.
The system is deteriorating because of:
* a lack of service standards and quality assurance, coupled with inflexible, central control;
* a lack of incentives to provide high quality care;
*   over-concentration of staff and resources in urban areas, and inequitable distribution of health
financing;
'   under-the-table payments;
*   inefficiency and lack of management expertise at the service provider level; and
*   lack of economic sustainability because of excessive health facility infrastructure and staffing.
2.3 Government of Bulgaria Health Reform Agenda.
The recently released Updated Government Program  (March, 2000 - April, 2001) sets up specific
objectives for the improvement of the quality of life of all Bulgarians. The Government's most important
goal in this regard is the practical implementation of the health reform, which is expected to lead to a more
humane attitude towards the patient and to improvements in access to high quality health services.
The priorities that have been identified by the Government for overcoming these sector issues and the needs
for adaptation and accession of the Bulgarian health system to the EU include:
.     Mitigating the negative trends in the nation's health
Reducing infant mortality, limiting morbidity and mortality from socially important
diseases (cardiovascular disease, neoplasms, trauma and intoxication, diabetes,
tuberculosis,. HIV/AIDS and others), limiting occupational health risks and increasing
safety at work, restricting health risks to disadvantaged social groups (ethnic minorities,
elderly, unemployed, etc.), and improving the mental health of the population.
2.     Enhancing health system effectiveness through institutional and structural changes
in health services production and delivery
Including re-organizing or improving primary health care, specialized outpatient care,
hospital care, blood transfusion, public health, emergency medical care and the
pharmaceutical sector.
3.     Promoting the quality of medical care
Development of standards, criteria and indicators for health care quality, improving
health care management, updating equipment and premises of health care establishments,
developing a unified information system, integrating the telecommunication systems in'
health to the national and the European systems, and developing an evaluation capacity
for medical technologies and introduction of good medical practice guidelines.
4.    Increasing health system effectiveness through change of the financing system
Completing the establishment and development of the structural units of the National
Health Insurance Fund and its territorial structures, and developing its human resources,
developing new investment policy and improving the financing within the MOH,
introducing a contracting system between the financing body and the health care
-4 -



providers, and introducing a system for medical and financial control.
5.     Adapting human resources in health to the new economic circumstances and the
institutional and structural changes in health
Addressing the pre-qualification and redistribution of medical staff, aligning the medical
school curriculum with those of the EU countries and providing the grounds for free
movement of specialists, and creating possibilities for constant professional training and
participation in research activities.
The Government has defined the following strategy related to structural changes and development
in health care:
1. to complete the establishment of the National Health Insurance Fund and to develop managerial,
administrative and information capacity for the operation of a health insurance system in Bulgaria;
2. to create conditions for the development of voluntary health insurance funds through support for
the establishment of insurance supervision administration;
3. to improve the collection of health insurance contributions through their incorporation in the
system of tax and insurance payments collection by a unified state revenue collection agency;
4. to grant legal, financial and economic independence to health care establishments;
5. to complete the re-registration of the health care establishments as trade companies in the light of
creating opportunities for subsequent privatization, with guaranteed preferential participation of
doctors and dentists working within the health care system;
6. to create new types of medical institutions, such as hospices, to provide employment to the medical
staff with college education;
7. to initiate the accreditation of health care establishments in the second half of year 2000;
8. to provide opportunities for professional self-governance of physicians and dentists, professional
monitoring of the quality of medical care and ethic rules for relations with patients;
9. to organize and supervise measures to control corruption in health care (with the support and
assistance of municipalities, NGOs, and citizens);
10. to provide transparency of structural and financial changes, with a view to place health care
institutions and administration at the service of people; and
11. to create the required conditions for pharmacies' registration and operation.
The challenge is to build popular support for the reforms and to calibrate them in such a way as to ensure
that they will succeed in making the systems financially and operationally viable, and both politically and
socially acceptable. The Govemment's medium-term agenda encompasses action on health in poorer
regions aimed at reducing disparities. The authorities have asked the World Health Organization (WHO)
for assistance in defining a comprehensive health sector strategy. The aim is to enhance sector efficiency,
increase resources allocated to the sector by tapping alternative sources of financing, and target public
resources to the most cost-effective interventions.
2.4 Impact of Health Reform Agenda
It is clear that the current health reform agenda will substantially alter the service delivery, institutional,
and financial arrangements within the health care system in Bulgaria. These changes include:
* employment arrangements for physicians changing from salaried state employees to independent
-5 -



contractors;
*  hospitals changing from public to private ownership, and the simultaneous implementation of a facility
rationalization scheme that has been developed within the Ministry of Health;
*  institutionalization of the change in the focus of ambulatory care toward a primary health care/general
practice approach, and away from the current specialty-driven system;
*  change in the payment arrangements from salaries or direct budget financing to capitation or global
budgets, as described above;
*  change in the entitlement for health care from a "free service" guaranteed by the constitution to an
insurance entitlement based on contributions from employees and employers (or various levels of
government for selected groups);
*  change in out-of-pocket payments from officially non-existent and practically whatever the market
would bear, to standard rates that are approved and backed up by legislation.
These changes reflect an overall implementation approach as part of a comprehensive health system reform
package. The introduction of health insurance is being used as a catalyst to implement these reforms. It is
clear that these changes will happen fairly quickly once the health insurance system is introduced. Some of
the stakeholders in the health system are just now beginning to understand the implications and scope of
these changes, and the points of view of these groups are now prevalent in the media. Effective public
information campaigns are required to ensure that the media and the population at large have a clear idea of
the scope and impact of these reforms.
2.5 Progress on Health Reform.
The Govemment has taken the first steps towards meeting these objectives. The box below provides a
timeline of the actions to date, and those that are anticipated as the reforms evolve. Annex 14 gives more
details on these developments and the current status of the reform process.
Activity                                     Planned Completion Date
The Parliament passes a National Health Insurance  June 4, 1998 (Completed)
Act
The Parliament passes a Health Care Establishments July 9, 1999 (Completed)
Act
The Ministry of Health drafts a comprehensive  January 2000 (Completed)
program for implementing the health care reform, as
a part of the overall Govemment Program
Reform of the legal and property status of Primary  March 15, 2000
Health Care establishments is implemented
Full geographic coverage of the country with  April 1, 2000 (Continuous)
General Practitioners is ensured
-6 -



The National Framework Contract between NHIF   April 30, 2000 (Completed)
and the Bulgarian Medical Association is legally
adopted
Full coverage of all individual citizens by a General May 15, 2000
Practitioner is ensured (registration process -
patients select their doctors)
NHIF signs individual contracts with the PHC  May - June 2000
providers
The new system of financing of the Primary Health  July 1, 2000
Care Sector is launched
Reform of the legal and property status of Hospital  September 2000 (Continuous)
Care establishments is completed, through a process
of re-registration
Full re-evaluation of the hospitals and other health  September 2000 (Continuous)
care establishments is completed, and formal
accreditation is issued for all establishments
The new system of financing of the hospital care   July 1, 2001
sector is launched
2.6 Bank Involvement
The Government is undertaking a large-scale reform in the health sector. As seen above, considerable
effort and investment have already been made to create a reform strategy and to begin its implementation.
The.Government has started working on virtually all of the components of the planned reform, and is
strongly committed to making the necessary investments. The Bank project will link into this process and
provide needed support into the ongoing transformation, helping the Government meet the investment needs
of the reform process.
The Bank has been assisting the Government for the last several years through the initial Health Sector
Restructuring Project (HSRP) Loan Agreement, which was signed in 1996 and is currently under
implementation. It encompasses Primary Health Care, Emergency Medical Services, Blood Transfusion,
and Policy Analysis and Management. The Primary Health.Care component of this project was recently
formally restructured to direct the intervention more toward rural and remote areas of the country, thereby
targeting the project more to the poor and vulnerable.
The Government views the Bank as the major partner in designing and implementing the health sector
reform and, through the Ministry of Health, has requested continuing assistance for the reform process.
2.7 External Agency Support
A PHRD Grant was secured for a new Bank-financed operation. The Australian Health Insurance
-7 -



Commission was contracted to provide project preparation activities, and has already completed its work.
Among the areas examined were: financial modeling of various options for the health insurance system,
examination of administrative and information systems needs, definition of a basic package of services,
examination of legal issues, and public information.
In recent months, the Bank has worked with the Swiss Government to arrange a grant from the Swiss
Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) in support of NHIF. The Swiss Grant totals CHF 3
million (about US$2 million) and is implemented through a Bank-administered and recipient-executed Trust
Fund. It provides for technical assistance and training to NHIF staff and its senior management. This
assistance forms a key component of the overall Framework Program to support health sector reform.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project is designed to provide critical assistance to the Ministry of Health, NHIF, and the Government
of Bulgaria in support of the health reform process. The key sector issues supported by the project include:
*   improved service standards and quality assurance;
*   increased incentives to provide high quality care;
*   rationalization of staff and resources in urban areas, and improvements in the distribution of health
financing;
*   replacement of under-the-table payments with formal co-payments at prescribed levels;
*   increased management expertise at the service provider level;
*   improved economic sustainability through better health facility infrastructure and rational staffing
levels.
Another key element of the project is ongoing policy dialogue between the Bank team and the Government
with regard to the health reform agenda and implementation of this agenda. The effects of this ongoing
dialogue are already apparent in the health insurance legislation and the various strategic choices that have
been made by the Ministry of Health and NHIF management on issues such as the organization and staffing
of the Fund and the selection of financing arrangements. The project is designed to maximize this policy
dialogue by linking specific project components to the key policy thrusts, and utilizing the base that has
been created through the significant institution building/technical assistance components included in the
overall Framework Program.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
As noted above, the proposed project would be part of an overall program of health reform and it will be
implemented over the next five years. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$86.96 million,
including contingencies. The project would be financed by an IBRD Loan of US$63.30 million and
Government counterpart financing of about $23.66 million.
The Framework Program has already been progressing without Bank financing for the past year, and other
agencies are also supporting to the overall health reform program. The cost of the Framework Program is
$119.41 million, with the Government contributing US$51.67 million, or 43 percent of the total. The
Framework Program has seven components. Of these, four components comprise the project which will be
financed through the Bank loan.                        -
-8 -



The World Bank Project
lndicative            :Bank       % of
Component                   Sector.       Costs  %. of    financing, . Bank-E
________ ._-_-::---_--_-_.                _ .9 .::  .(U_SM)_   Total    (US$M)  financing:
A. Primary and Ambulatory Care     Basic Health        23.25       26.7     17.58       27.8
Reforn
B. Hospital Care Reform            Basic Health        26.61       30.6      17.05      26.9
C. Health Financing Reform/NHIF    Health              24.74       28.4      16.44      26.0
D. Capacity Building               Health              11.73       13.5      11.60      18.3
Total Project Costs                    86.33       99.3     62.67       99.0
Front-end fee                     0.63        0.7      0.63        1.0
Total Financing Required                    86.96      100.0      63.30     100.0
Other Elements of Framework Program
E. NHIF Infrastructure             Health             28.01       23.5     .0.00        0.0
Development
F. Technical Assistance (Swiss     Health              2.00       0.02      0.00        0.0
Government)
G. Technical Assistance (USAID)    Health              2.50       0.02      0.00        0.0
Total Costs of Framework Program                  119.41      100.0     63.30      100.0
The following components are financed under the project:
Primary and Ambulatory Care Reform is designed to facilitate the reform and sustainability of the
primary and ambulatory care sector. It includes providing practice equipment for primary health care,
funding physician office information systems, providing training in GP practice management, funding a
public information campaign to inform the public about changes in the ambulatory care system, financing a
health reform investment program to provide low-interest loans for physicians, and funding a labor
adjustment strategy to transition surplus physicians out of the health sector in Bulgaria.
Hospital Care Reform is designed to facilitate the reform and sustainability of the hospital care sector. It
involves support for the implementation of reform of the hospital system, including funding hospital
information systems, providing training in hospital management, funding a public information campaign to
inform the public about changes in the hospital care system, financing a health reform investment program
to provide low-interest loans to hospitals that make desired investments in new equipment and facilities, and
funding a labor adjustment strategy to transition surplus hospital staff out of the health sector in Bulgaria.
Health Financing/NHIF will ensure a smoothly functioning health insurance administration in Bulgaria. It
would assist the National Health Insurance Fund in establishing the technological infrastructure required to
operate the national health insurance system, including the extensive hardware and software systems
needed, as well as the training and technical assistance required to implement and maintain them.
Capacity Building is designed to strengthen the management and institutional capacity within the Ministry
of Health, the National Health Insurance Fund, and the health system generally. It would fund project
management and financial management, monitoring and evaluation activity. It will also provide funds for
-9-



the general training of NHIF, Regional and local staff, and finance an essential public information
campaign to inform Bulgarians of the significant changes that will be taking place within their health care
system and advise them of how these changes will improve the overall delivery and effectiveness of health
care.
As part of the Framework Program, the following components are financed by other agencies:
NHIF Infrastructure Development provides a base upon. which the Bank financed project is built. It
represents the investments that have already been made by the National Health Insurance Fund in
establishing its operations, including the purchase and/or renovation of the national office and 28 regional
offices, plus the office equipment, computer hardware and software, furniture, and training required to
bring the NHIF to its current level of readiness.
Technical Assistance - Swiss Government includes the substantial technical assistance grant (CHF 3
million equivalent) from the Swiss Government, which will fund essential support in the areas of general
management, health insurance operations, human resources management, information systems management
and essential training for senior managers.
Technical Assistance (USAID) includes additional technical assistance from the United States govermment
through USAID to strengthen financial and investment management within the NHIF. The Bank has
worked with USAID to ensure that the package of technical assistance being provided complements the
activities financed by the Swiss Govemment and the Bank.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project supports a fundamental reform in the health system in Bulgaria, involving virtually
all components of the system. Under the general rubric of the implementation of national health insurance,
a new package of primary health care benefits is being introduced, changes are being made in the way that
primary health care services are paid and organized, and the payment arrangements and ownership of
hospitals and specialist physicians (medical specialists, surgeons and diagnostic specialists) are being
altered. An integral part of the process is the rationalization of facilities and personnel throughout the
country and the encouragement of greater equity in the access to health services both geographically and to
various socio-economic groups, according to a carefully developed national health map. All of these
measures are essential to ensure the long-term viability of health care financing in Bulgaria.
3.- Benefits and target population:
As noted above, the implementation of national health insurance is the catalyst for a comprehensive reform
program designed to stop the deterioration of health services throughout the country and ensure that the
available resources are spent wisely to provide needed, high quality services.
The entire population of Bulgaria would benefit from the implementation of the health system reforms,
including the introduction of national health insurance, and from the certainty that these programs would
provide in terms of ensuring the long-term sustainability and availability of health services.  Since
premiums are tied to income, while the range of services would be equally available to everyone, national
health insurance will have a distributional effect in favor of the poor. Premiums for the most vulnerable
members of society, including pensioners, the unemployed and those on social assistance, are paid for by
either the municipal or national government. Moreover, improved access to services should particularly
favor the poor that are in ill health.
I  0 -



The move from the current methods of resource allocation to one based on population, demographic and
other needs-based indicators will particularly favor those in rural and remote areas, many of whom live in
poverty. The proposed project will continue the approach included in the first health project, where rural
and remote communities were targeted in particular for improvements in health facilities and services.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The overall responsibility for project coordination and implementation will lie with the Project Management
Unit (PMU), which will be an independent unit supervised by a joint board comprising senior management
of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund. The first four staff of the PCU were
hired in early April, 2000 and will ensure that an appropriate project management, financial management,
and procurement system is established very quickly. The Project Management and Project Preparation
consultants hired under the Swiss Grant, and the Financial Management consultant hired under Component
I of the first project will also assist in ensuring that implementation can commence immediately once the
loan is approved.
Close coordination will be maintained with other potential extemal aid agencies during the life of the
project, and will play an important role in successful project implementation. Regular aid coordination
conferences will be held, agency representatives will be invited to participate on supervision missions, and
aide memoires will be shared with them.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a) Small technical assistance package: While this could be mobilized fairly quickly, technical assistance
alone would not give the Government of Bulgaria the resoutces it needs to actually implement its health
reform agenda. Moreover, the Bank has already worked to attract other donors (the Swiss and US
governments), which are already providing significant technical assistance to the Government of Bulgaria.
(b) Adjustment Lending:  An adjustment operation to support health reform could be mounted fairly
quickly and provide a significant amount of money to meet the specific needs of the health reform process.
However, Bulgaria currently has a number of large adjustment operations and there is no room within the
overall country allocation for additional adjustment lending. In addition, an investment operation appears
to provide more scope for ongoing policy dialogue with the Government as the reforms are implemented
and modifications are required.
(c) Loan for NHIF only: Although this was discussed earlier and advocated strongly by the former
Minister of Health, it was considered that it is essential that the significant impact that the introduction of
National Health Insurance will have on health care service providers should be addressed by a new lending
operation for the health sector generally. Otherwise, the mechanisms for implementing the insurance will
be there within the Insurance Fund, but those contracting with the fund will not be able to either enter into
appropriate contracts or provide the services required by these contracts.
(d) Adaptable Program Loan (APL): The APL has increasingly been used in the last several years as a
means of linking ongoing Bank funding to continued progress on the policy and reform agenda. Given the
state of development of the health reform process in Bulgaria, and its ongoing implementation, it is felt that
a staged approach is not appropriate for this operation. As noted in Part B of the PAD, all of the major
elements of the reform process are already well thought out and are already in the process of being
- 11 -



implemented. The timing of these reforms is such that it would be very difficult to design a multi-stage
loan wiih appropriate triggers that would still address the needs of the client.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
i/; i; t; t f: tS X CiN . 40 :;DS; aS; L ates ;7007Super.....  ;|f  .|;0i vision';:~:
Soctor is We:u                    PrI,t.PR  Ratins 0.
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Health Sector Restructuring       S              S
Social Insurance Admin.          HS             HS
Social Protection Adj.            S              S
Regional Initiatives Fund         S              S
Other development agencies
PHARE (TRANSFORM)                  NHIF Staff Training
PHARE                              PHC Training (completed)
Swiss Agency for Development and    NHIF Technical Assistance
Cooperation (SDC)
USAID                              NHIF Technical Assistance
Government of Spain                Hospital Management Training
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Through the existing health restructuring and social insurance administration project, the project team has
gained a good appreciation of the strengths and weaknesses of the Bulgarian health and social security
systems. The proposed Bank financing provides the Ministry of Health and the NHIF with both the
expertise and the financial resources to further address a number of key policy issues. The Health Sector
Restructuring project has greatly improved the infrastructure of the health system, especially in the areas of
emergency medical services and blood transfusion. In the area of primary health care, almost all
preparations are being made to implement the new primary health care system by July I of this year,
including the PHC-package of the NHIF, but it is clear from this project that additional resources are
required in several areas to resolve the key structural issues that plague the health system today:
*      significant over-capacity and over-employment, including inefficient skills mix of health personnel;
*      inadequate targeting of services to those most in need;
*      uncertainties in funding to providers, and inconsistent availability to patients; and
*      inequitable distribution of health care funding to different regions of the country.
The use of selective contracting and restructuring of the service providers should address the first three of
these issues, while the use of a population based funding allocation methodology should alleviate the fourth.
The Bank has had an ongoing policy dialogue with the Ministry of Health and the National Health
Insurance Fund to address these and other issues. These discussions are reflected in the overall thrust of
the health reform agenda. It is clear that financing reform in the form of national health insurance in the
absence of other fundamental reforms of the health system will no more alleviate these issues than health
restructuring without health financing reformn. The project therefore addresses both of these aspects as part
- 12 -



of a comprehensive package.
Lessons learned from other health projects in ECA (see Health Sector Development Strategy) include:
1. Health sector reform is a lengthy and politicized process and expectations have often been optimistic;
2. The institutional aspects of reform are as important as the technical approaches used;
3. Greater attention needs to be paid to the political economy through marketing reforms to lawmakers,
the medical community and the general public; and
4. Projects have often been too complex.
These lessons have been reflected in the project design in a number of ways. First, the Bank team was
consistent in urging the Government of Bulgaria to postpone the implementation of national health
insurance to provide more time for the up-front activity that was required. Second, considerable attention
and resources have been devoted in the project to the development of public information strategies which
explain the reforns to all of the stakeholders and to address issues such as corruption within the health
sector. The PHRD grant activities specifically addressed this issue, and technical assistance funding is also
being provided through the Swiss Grant. Third, the general technical assistance component, as well as the
specific financing through the Swiss grant are designed to develop significant institutional capacity to
ensure sustainability at that level. Finally, the project components themselves are few in number and based
on proven approaches.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Bulgaria is very committed to the successful implementation of a major health reform
program, including the introduction of national health insurance. It has passed enabling legislation for
health insurance, health personnel, and health providers and made the necessary modifications to the social
security law to create the room for the collection of health insurance premiums. It has also appointed some
of the most talented individuals in the Ministry of Health and the health system in Bulgaria generally to
head up the NHIF and plan for the implementation of health insurance. Premiums are currently being
collected, and plans are underway for the commencement of provider contracts and payments for
ambulatory care services, beginning July 1, 2000. NHIF has also started building successfully its regional
structure and information network, and is well-advanced in its preparation for the start of the first phase
(coverage of outpatient care) of the health insurance financing. Approximately US$28 million has already
been spent in setting up the health insurance system. In-patient care will continue to be financed directly by
the Ministry of Health until the second phase, expected to begin on July 1, 2001. Comprehensive health
strategies and a national health map have also been developed to guide the overall health reform efforts.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is one of the few major development lenders still engaged in the health sector in Bulgaria. Bank
staff have been involved in the health reform process as well as the national health insurance initiative for
many years, providing policy advice and assistance to the Government of Bulgaria in a variety of areas,
including development of the health insurance legislation, addressing key issues related to NHI
implementation (with the assistance of the PHRD grant), and focusing on critical organizational and
sustainability issues. The Bank has the capacity to mobilize both the significant financial and intellectual
resources required to support successful health system reform, including the implementation of national
health insurance. By focusing the discussion on key policy issues through the way in which the loan is
designed, the Bank will also have the leverage to address some of the critical structural problems that have
confounded health reform initiatives in many countries. The on-going Bank interest in this sector has also
generated renewed interest in the health system by other multi-lateral and bi-lateral donors.
-13 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$40 million; ERR = 55.7 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Presently within the HNP sector of the Bank, there is considerable discussion regarding the most
appropriate form of economic analysis to be used for health projects. In the absence of clear guidance, it is
felt that the cost-benefit approach used here is most appropriate for the type of project being proposed.
The economic analysis is based primarily on the savings that can be achieved as a result of the project
activities (including activities already undertaken by the NHIF), compared to the costs of implementing
health reform in the absence of the project. In some cases, this reflects the substitution of equipment and
information systems for staff, while in other cases the savings include the cost reductions resulting from
transitioning redundant personnel out of the health system. The analysis is based on the investment and
recurring costs and benefits of undertaking the project, and examines the impact on the health sector alone
(e.g., increased VAT from project expenditures is not considered as a benefit).  The analysis shows a
positive NPV of US$40.0 million. The key assumptions are shown in Annex 4. This calculation is based
on a a twenty year time frame and utilizes a 10 percent discount rate. Annex 4 also contains a sensitivity
analysis that shows a significant positive NPV for all of the variants utilized, and assesses the risks related
to each variant. The payback period under the standard assumptions is 10.9 years from the beginning of
the project implementation.
Other potential areas of savings not included in the above analysis include reductions in the average lengths
of stays in hospitals (estimated US$24.3 million per year, of which US$7.3 million annually could be
attributable to improved information systems), and more effective use of pharmaceuticals as a result of the
introduction of clinical practice guidelines (estimated annual savings of around US$7.5 million.) These
areas are also described in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
N.A.
Fiscal Impact:
Average annual project costs (excluding tax), are approximately 2.8 percent of 1999 public health
expenditure. Recurrent costs under the Project amount to approximately 2 percent of projected public
health expenditure. The recurrent costs of depreciation, repairs and maintenance and consumables
associated with the project investments are offset by related savings as indicated in the economic analysis.
The project will produce a positive net cash flow starting in year 5 of the project implementation.
On a broader level, the fiscal sustainability of the health system is a key consideration, and is explored in
more detail in Part F.
3. Technical:
3.1 General
- 14-



The project's components are well-focused, mutually reinforcing, and technically sound. A large body of
knowledge exists, both in the region and elsewhere, regarding the implementation of health reform,
including national health insurance. The approach selected by Bulgaria has made extensive use of this
body of knowledge, and reflects the lessons learned from this experience to develop a system that should be
both feasible and sustainable. None of the technical solutions chosen are particularly complex, and all
utilize existing and proven technology.
3.2 Health Information and Health Information Systems
General. The project envisions a highly integrated approach to the implementation of health information
systems, including the critical, but often under-emphasized, investments in management capacity building,
health information standards, and reporting forms rationalization/revision.   The core operational
information systems for the health insurance fund are "surrounded" by complementary system investments
in the primary care and hospital sub-sectors. Also, NHIF's needs for management and analytical systems,
in addition to its core operational systems, are addressed. A more detailed analysis of the infonnation
technology issues is found in a background paper in the project files. The key issues are summarized
below:
National Health Information Standards Formulation / Health Forms Rationalization. Comparable
information is essential both for management and for closer cooperation among health service providers at
the operational level (e.g., among hospitals and between the primary and hospital care providers). In both
dimensions, comparable information requires common information standards. The project supports a
multi-agency initiative to formulate health information standards on a national level. The rationalization of
reporting forms critically depends on the establishment a solid foundation of health information standards,
since the health sector's operational systems (e.g:, the clinical and resource management systems) operate at
this base level. The project supports the forms rationalization process in close conjunction with the health
standards formulation process.
Oualitv of Care /Accreditation. The project includes an initiative to strengthen the national capacity to
undertake health care quality assessments and accreditation activities. This is a closely allied effort to the
health information standards and forms rationalization process.
Software / Knowledge Engineering. Two of the most frequent points of failure of major information
systems initiatives are: (a) the translation of an agency's business processes into the detailed logic
embedded in the application code; and (b) the user's acceptance of the new technologies and the new
procedures/practices that accompany with them. Limiting both these risk areas depends on how well the
formal and defacto business processes are discovered and articulated by the systems analysts. The project
supports the strengthening of the NHIF's software/knowledge engineering capacities, through the
acquisition of a computer assisted software engineering tool (CASE tool) and related professional training.
During the course of the project, the NHIF will continuously shift the emphasis of its in-house informatics
professionals, towards greater emphasis on software/knowledge engineering and less on the technical
support of the underlying technology infrastructure (e.g., the workstations, servers, network technologies).
Systems Integration. The complexity and evolving nature of the NHIF's business processes, and
corresponding information systems, requires the NHIF to adopt a phased and modular approach to
information systems implementation. This means that at each stage of the process, the newly introduced
systems must function with all of the existing, "incumbent" systems. The NHIF has already launched its
systems implementation, including (a) the interim basic system, (b) the insured and provider registers, (c)
the basic insured accounting module, and (d) the contracting and payment module for the primary health
- 15 -



care providers. Modules to support the management of the hospital care sub-sector (as well as other
functions) will be implemented under a competitively-procured contract and financed by the project.
Initially, the providers' systems will be provided on a reduced-cost or free basis. However, the subsequent
annual licenses and upgrades will be financial responsibilities of the health care service providers. This
will help ensure a competitive market for primary care and hospital information systems develops in
Bulgaria. It will also help ensure that NHIF is not saddled with a permanent responsibility to further
develop and/or finance such provider level information systems.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Health (MOH) will be the key executing agency, although both the MOH and the NHIF
will be involved in the project implementation, supported by the Project Coordination Unit.
The NHIF has a very strong top management team. It enjoys the benefit of having a "greenfield" in its line
of business. The agency itself is also new and without the debilitating legacies that many previously
existing agencies suffer under. Notwithstanding the inevitable constraints, this should give the NHIF a fair
degree of freedom to invent itself and its business, as it goes along. The NHIF has also benefited from the
"surplus" of doctors in Bulgaria and assembled a competent, professional staff.
4.2 Project management:
This is the second Bank financed health project in Bulgaria, therefore substantial institutional capacity
already exists in the implementing agencies. In addition, the NHIF is currently in the midst of the actual
implementation of national health insurance, which has required a great deal of procurement and contract
management. This has been done using either World Bank or Bulgarian procurement standards, which are
similar in many respects. Project management and preparation expertise is being provided through the
Swiss Grant, and was in place in late March to assist the NHIF and the Project Management Unit.
Funding for staff training has also been included in the project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An experienced procurement specialist has already been hired by the PMU and he will be assisted by the
Project Management and Project Preparation consultants funded through the Swiss Grant. A procurement
assessment and procurement plan have also been completed (see Annex 6). Procurement arrangements and
policies will be reflected in the Project Implementation Plan and Operations Manual. Funding has been
provided for additional procurement consulting expertise during implementation, as well as specific training
for PMU staff in procurement.
4.4 Financial management issues:
An experienced project accountant has already been hired by the PMU and is being assisted by the Project
Preparation Consultant, as well as the Financial Management consultant funded through the first project.
Project accounting and procurement software has already been selected and installed. A financial
management assessment was prepared during the project appraisal to determine if there any outstanding
issues that need to be addressed prior to the Board presentation. The action plan has been reviewed and all
of the necessary steps have been completed. Financial management policies and procedures are reflected in
the Project Implementation Plan. Considerable training and consulting assistance in financial management
- 16-



is being provided to both the PMU and the NHIF through the Swiss Grant and the project. An action plan
is also being developed to move to PMR-based disbursements by June 30, 2001.
Compliance with the financial covenants with respect to the first project is acceptable, and there does not
appear to be a high degree of risk in the banking sector in Bulgaria. The PMU will shortly open a Special
Account (for the Swiss Grant) at a commercial bank or the National Bank, and will do the same for the
Bank loan. Fiduciary controls also appear to be very good in the first project with respect to equipment
and vehicles provided by the project. Most of the equipment is in the control of the Ministry of Health, and
the balance is being controlled by the municipalities. Each of the participating municipalities have signed
contracts with the Minister of Health which provide, inter alia, for controls over the equipment provided.
It is expected that municipalities will also be involved in the control of some of the equipment provided
under the second project, and the remainder will be covered by direct contracts between the service
providers and the MOH/NHIF.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Govemment has prepared an environmental management plan as required by the Board condition. The
plan will be included in the Project Implementation Plan, and it will be enforced by the Project Management
Unit and the National Health Insurance Fund in its implementation of the Health Reform Investment
Program.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
In Bulgaria there are environmental regulations in force that makes control and supervision of construction
works mandatory. Particularly, Council of Ministers Ordinance Nr. 56 /1999. The Bill of Quantities will
nevertheless include clauses for appropriate disposal of unacceptable existing construction materials and
disposal of construction waste. Procurement documents will specify that no environmentally unacceptable
materials will be used. As appropriate bidding documents will include planting of trees, the rehabilitation
of adequate sanitary facilities, including appropriate disposal of waste water and sewerage. There is
on-going experience with the current Health Reform Project, Primary Health Care Component, where no
environmentally harmful materials have been utilized in similar MW. The PMU will be responsible to hire
and oversee the required architects, engineers and contractors. In the context of the refurbishment activities,
the PMU's role is to manage the design, bidding, supervision of projects (including civil works, goods and
services). The PMU's responsibility includes the following activities:
*   hire the services of private architectural/engineering firms capable of providing comprehensive
services, i.e. architectural, all required engineering, preparation of tender documents and site
supervision;
*   supervise the work performed by the architectural/engineering firms to ensure that they are applying
adequate standards and are following agreed procedures, as well as the agreed environmental plan.
* organize tendering procedures, review tender evaluation performed by the architecturalVengineering
firms, arrange for the contracts to be signed in accordance with agreed procedures.
*   ensure that the architectural/engineering firms are providing adequate site supervision, particularly the
supervision of carrying out the environmental plan (monitoring the disposal of unwanted materials,
disposal of waste water and sewage, and procurement documents specify that no lead based painted
will be used).
- 17 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed enviromnent management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
See above.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key social issue will be the potential displacement of health workers as a result of the rationalization of
services precipitated by the introduction of national health insurance. As part of the project preparation,
the Government has been developing a labor adjustment strategy to deal with this displacement. This will
include severance costs, training costs and other adjustment expenses. The Government will fund these
costs as part of their contribution to the overall project costs.
The issue of adequate health care services to the poor and to rural populations (mostly the same groups) is
being addressed in the first Health Sector Restructuring Project. This project is being restructured to target
the improved general practice clinics and staff to areas that are currently under-serviced. This approach is
being encouraged in the second project, both in the direct support to the health system to facilitate health
reforms and the implementation of the health insurance program with regard to user charges and regional
allocation models. As noted above, the national health insurance approach being implemented is an
inclusive and progressively financed program. As such, it should be of greater benefit to the poor and
disadvantaged in Bulgarian society.
Finally, there is a concern about public perceptions that some physicians engage in corrupt practices. The
following box identifies the problem, suggests reasons why corruption occurs, and details how the project
will address this concern.
-18-



A Multi-Pronged Strategy for Combating Corruption
The Problem: public concerns about corrupt practices by the physicians, include:
* Public-sector doctors who direct clients to private practitioners where they have to pay for services
that should be "free";
* Clients do not receive health care services in a timely manner unless the physician is given a favor
or a bribe;
* And, to a lesser extent, physicians write prescriptions for expensive medications that can only be
procured in pharmacies in which the physician has a financial interest.
Why Corruption Occurs:
* Low pay of physicians given their high level of education and experience;
* Difficulty in distinguishing between gifts given freely as an expression of gratitude (allowed by
legislation) and payments extorted as a pre-condition for services (a corrupt practice);
* The absence of measures against those who take bribes;
* Absence of clear norms to define the relationship between physicians and their patients.
How the Project will Address:
* The Labor Adjustment Strategy will reduce the total number of medical doctors employed,
allowing part of the savings to be used for improved remuneration for the remaining physicians;
* Development and widespread dissemination of public information messages on patient rights and
responsibilities under the health care reform --- including what prices should be charged for
services;
* Hot-lines at National Health Insurance Fund and 28 Regional Insurance Funds to provide
information and to receive complaints;
* Regular medical audits to be carried out in 2% of practices every month;
* Establishment of procedures to investigate and possibly cancel the contract with NHIF of any
physician engaging in corrupt activities;
* Regular monitoring and evaluation on this issue, including annual reporting by the Goverunent.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Parliamentary Commission on Health: during discussion of the health insurance legislation
Bulgarian Medical Association: various times regarding impact of health insurance on physicians
The Nurses Association: regarding impact of health insurance on nurses.
Ministry of Health: constant contact throughout development of health insurance concept
National Health Insurance Fund: constant contact since its inception
National Association of Municipalities: contact on how the proposed project will impact health care
provision/financing at the local level.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project tearn met with representatives of CEGA (Creating Effective Grassroots Alternatives), a leading
NGO working with the vulnerable Roma population. NHIF has been working with CEGA to see how best
to reach the Roma and other vulnerable populations through its public information campaign.
19-



The team also worked with "Coalition 2000", the leading NGO working to combat corruption in the public
sector in Bulgaria.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Project Management Unit has been given the responsibility to ensure that activities proposed for
advance social development are carried out. In addition, the PMU will prepare regular updates on the
status of the social development indicators that were defined.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
A set of key indicators will be used to assess project performance in terms of social development outcomes.
Specific effort was made to ensure that the main concems of the social assessment are being addressed, i.e.
that the physicians who are down-sized out of the health care system are receiving severance payments and
retraining, that the vulnerable populations have access to health care services, and that "under-the-table"
payments are curtailed. Data collection methods are specified in the monitoring-and-evaluation strategy.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
El Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           1 Yes F No
O Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                   C Yes 1 No
O Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     El Yes 1 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      El Yes 1 No
E Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   E Yes 1 No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   El Yes M No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             El Yes [I No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                              L Yes 12 No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50. GP 7.50)   El Yes Z No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60 GP 7.60           El Yes 12 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See Section 5.2 above.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Government of Bulgaria has already invested a substantial amount of time, money and other resources
in the health reform process, and has made numerous public commitments to achieve the goals of health
reform. The policy commitment to a continuation of the reform process is therefore significant.
The other key area is the sustainability of the health financing system itself. Here, a substantial portion of
the Bank loan is for the establishment of appropriate administrative and information systems. In addition,
the institutional building/technical assistance component will contribute to a well-managed and fully
functioning health financing system that is able to fund high-quality services on an ongoing basis.
The NHIF has already accumulated impressive expertise in the area of key revenue and expenditure
projections. The latest projections indicate that, once a steady state is reached, there should be sufficient
- 20 -



income to cover ongoing health care expenditures and administrative expenses. A key assumption is an
increase in health insurance revenue to cover the additional cost of providing hospital services when this
part of the finance reform comes on line in July, 2001. One potential problem area on the revenue side is
the collection rate for health premiums. A recent analysis for the first quarter of CYOO shows that, while
current collection rates are 90% of the target, collection rates of less than 60 percent are noted for several
insured groups, and the problem is mainly due to insufficient contributions made by municipalities in
respect of these groups. Specific conditionality has been included in the project to monitor this on an
ongoing basis.
On the expenditure side, the economic analysis shows a number of potential savings in providing health
services. While a portion of these savings are correctly targeted to improving the wage levels of health
workers, the magnitude of the savings that can be achieved should give a large enough buffer to ensure
continued sustainability. Of course, a key risk is the willingness to actually achieve these savings by
making the necessary structural changes. All indications from the Government to date are that they are
indeed prepared to take the required action.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk             -     Risk Rating   - .      Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Workers and facilities will not be       S        - Specific inclusion of labor adjustment
removed as the health reforms are                    programs in the new loan should help to focus
implemented. Political will required at the          attention on this issue.
MOH, NHIF and government level to                    - Continued policy dialogue, as well as
ensure required reductions are made.                 monitoring and evaluation activities will keep
attention focused on this issue.
- Reductions in excess capacity are also clearly
linked to the ongoing sustainability of the
system.
2. Reductions in inter-regional variations  M        - Significant amounts of technical assistance,
will not lead to improved access/health              together with in-house analytical capacity
status, or inter-regional variations will not        should ensure that appropriate funding models
be reduced.                                          and implementation plans are developed.
- The provider payment methods selected lend
themselves to population-based funding
approaches.
- Monitoring and evaluation strategies will
focus specifically on this issue.
- The.quality assurance and monitoring function
within the NHIF will also assess issues of access
and quality of care on an ongoing basis.
- 21 -



3. Cost-effective health insurance             S          - Utilize proven approaches for health insurance
administration will not help to control                   management, adapted to local conditions.
overall health care costs.                                - With technical assistance provided through the
project, develop effective monitoring and
analysis tools to highlight potential issues in
health care cost control before they reach crisis
proportions.
- Maintain ongoing dialogue with the Bulgarian
Medical Association and provider groups to
address cost control issues.
4. Health care costs and demand for            S          - Controlling health care costs and demand are
health services can be controlled through                 global problems, however, the national health
effective NHIF and health provider                       insurance system as designed provides provider
management.                                               and consumer incentives that are proven to be
effective.
- Utilize the extensive monitoring and analysis
capability included in the system at the provider
level to evaluate trends in health services
demand.
5. Financing of system could be                M          Prudent fiscal policy; public education efforts.
jeopardized by deterioration of the
economic situation (low economic growth,
inflation) or by public backlash or
avoidance of contributions (through
working in informal sector).
From Components to Outputs
1. A well-trained physician population         M          - The quality assurance and monitoring function
with better clinical equipment and,                       within the NHIF and available to providers will
information systems does not provide                      help to assess issues of access and quality of
improved health care services.                            care on an ongoing basis.
2. A smaller number of well-equipped           M          - The quality assurance and monitoring function
hospitals with improved information                       within the NHIF and available to providers will
systems do not provide better inpatient                   help to assess issues of access and quality of
care services.                                            care on an ongoing basis.
3. The incentives contained in the package     S          - With technical assistance provided through the
of benefits, provider payment methods,                    project, develop effective monitoring and
and NHIF infrastructure will not support                  analysis tools to highlight potential issues in
a sustainable health financing system.                    health care cost control before they reach crisis
proportions.
- Maintain ongoing dialogue with the Bulgarian
Medical Association and provider groups to
address cost control issues.
-22 -



4. Improved salaries/benefits and access    S         - Extensive public informnation campaigns will
to better medical equipment and                       be utilized to ensure that citizens are aware of
technologies will fail to undermine old               their rights and responsibilities under the new
system of informal payments between                   financing system, including the fact that the only
patient and doctor.                                   allowable co-payment is the one provided for in
the Health Insurance Act.
- Regular monitoring of this issue is included in
both project conditionalities and in the
monitoring and evaluation plans.
5. Training, public information and         M         - Utilize proven approaches based on the
technical assistance will not be sufficient           recormnendations of experts in the field.
to the smooth implementation and                      - Ensure that the government conumitinent to the
sustainability of the health reforms.                 health reform process is well known to the
various stakeholders.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Social Issues: The rationalization of the health system and the proposed improvements in efficiency will
result in reduced numbers of physicians, and health workers in Bulgaria. Considerable numbers will lose
their jobs, which could lead to social conflicts and tensions. Appropriate management of the process of
releasing these workers is imperative, as the health insurance system will not be able to support the inflated
number of health professionals and could undermine the solvency of the insurance fund. To address this
concern, the project will offer services to meet the needs of the displaced health workers, including
retraining opportunities, severance payments, and access to funds to set up entrepreneurial pursuits.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A. Negotiations Conditions:
(i) Agreement has been reached on the criteria and conditions for the Health Reform Investment Program.
B. Board Conditions:
(i) the Financial Management Action Plan, developed as a result of the FMS review conducted during the
appraisal mission, has been implemented to the satisfaction of a certified Financial Management Specialist.
(ii) the Project Implementation Plan has been completed in a format satisfactory to the Bank, including the
procurement for the first year of implementation.
(iii) a short list of auditors, as well as the Terms of Reference for the audit function, have been provided to
the Bank and received No Objection.
-23 -



(iv) an Environmental Management Plan satisfactory to the Bank has been prepared by the Project
Management Unit.
C. Effectiveness Conditions:
(i)   the Project Operations Manual (for the operation of the Health Reforrn Investment Program) has
been completed in a fornat satisfactory to the Bank, and adopted by the PMU,
(ii)   key PMU staff have been hired (Project Director, Chief Accountant, Procurement Specialist and
Project Administrator).
(iii)   a project auditor, acceptable to the Bank, has been appointed.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated Covenant:
(i) the Labor Adjustment Strategy for physicians and hospital workers will be formulated and implemented
by April 30, 2001, and operated continuously throughout the life of the project
Implementation:
Project Management:
(i) The PMU will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) which detail project financing
needs and sources for the subsequent quarter of project implementation, and describe the financial situation
of the project in terns of actual versus planned expenditures for each project activity.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation:
(i) The PMU will have drafted a mid-term review report by April 30, 2003, highlighting both progress
towards the agreed-upon indicators and implementation progress and constraints, to be used as the basis for
a joint MOH-NHIF-Bank mid-tenn review mission which will be completed by July 31, 2003, and
thereafter the Government will take measures which are required to ensure the efficient completion of the
project and achievement of project objectives.
(ii) The Government of Bulgaria will report annually to the Bank (by April 30 for the previous calendar
year) on progress that has been made towards combating corruption in the health sector, with specific focus
on under-the-table payments and the effectiveness of the official co-payment mechanisms.
(iii) The Government of Bulgaria will report annually to the Bank (by April 30 for the previous calendar
year) on progress that has been made towards ensuring uniform access to health services for all ethnic,
economic and geographic groups, as well as the level of health insurance coverage for these groups and the
population generally.
Health Policy:
- 24 -



(i) The Government of Bulgaria will review by June 30 each year with the Bank (to ensure input into the
Government's budget process) progress on project implementation and health reform generally. This
discussion shall include, inter alia, current and proposed premium levels and premium collection rates,
other sources of financing for health services, current and future requirements for Government
contributions to the project activities, and a business plan for the next year's project operatioris.
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1  1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The-procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are reconmmended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Dominic S. Haazen                 Annette Dixon                      Andrew N. Vorkink
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector            Country Manager/Director
-25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BULGARIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:       Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To stop deterioration in the   Mortality and morbidity rates Nationally-representative  The project objectives: (a) to
health status of the Bulgarian  for major health concerns    sample survey to be carried   improve the cost-effectiveness
population while gradually   (such as cardio- vascular  out at beginning and at end of and (b) access to health care
improving to Westem       disease and stroke), by age,   project. Over-sampling will  services will contribute to
European standards.       sex, region, ethnic group, and be done for minority, rural,  improvements in health status,
socioeconomic status      and other population      given budget constraints.
sub-groups.
While the project cannot be
held wholly responsible for
health status changes, as other
variables affect health status,
it is important for the
Government to gauge whether
the health reform in having a
discernible impact on
important disease and
mortality pattems.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
Support the GoB in        Ability to implement reform   (a) National Statistics;  (a) stable political and
implementing a fundamental within a fixed percent of GDP (b) National Income and  economic environment
reform of its health sector,   spent on health care, annually. Expenditure Accounts;  required to stay within MOF
designed to improve access   (initially 4.5%, to be reviewed (c) Utilization and financial  and IMF-mandated 4.5% cap;
and ensure ongoing financial throughout project)    reports from NHIF and MOH.
and operational sustainability.                                                (b) introduction of health
reforms, including national
health insurance, will lead to
improved access and higher
standards of health care.
-26 -



Sub-Objectives                                                                     AS ABOVE.
1. Ensure on-going financial  1.1 Administrative costs of    1. I - 1.3 Administrative
and operational sustainability  NHIF as a percentage of total records of NHIF and census
of health sector           revenue (initially 3-4%, target estimates of population (for
2-3%);                      1.3)
1.2 Operating surplus/deficit
of NHIF (after subsidies)
(target: balanced budgets)
1.3 Health expenditures per
capita by category of health
provider (baseline TBD,
initially PHC increasing,
hospitals stable, then PHC
stable, hospitals decreasing)
2. Improve access and      2.1 Percentage of population, 2.1, 2.2 Question in public
effectiveness of health care    by region and socioeconomic  opinion polls/focus group
and health promotion in    status, who report that basic   discussions financed under
Bulgaria                   package of health care      public information
services is available to them    component, with
within one hour from home   over-sampling of vulnerable
(Baseline TBD, target 20-25% populations and rural areas
improvement over baseline)
2.2 Percentage of population,
by region and socioeconomic
status, who report that health
care services were provided
without coercion to provide
extra payments or gifts
(baseline TBD, target 40-50%
improvement over baseline).
- 27 -



Hirach  of Obectives               Iniatr              Moiorn &i Eva , Iutd          C$icFssi npio
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. I To ensure financial   1. I. I Number of physicians    1.1. I - 1.1.2 Administrative   1. I Removing/ retraining
sustainability of health   and other medical personnel  records of NHIF and MLSP   redundant health workers and
insurance system by funding a receiving severance payments                         eliminating excess facilities
labor adjustment strategy to   (target TBD, project objective                      will improve system cost-
transition surplus doctors out to meet 100% of original                            effectiveness.
of the health sector and to    target)
improve provider payment
mechanisms.                 1.1.2 Units costs for specific
services. Specific services to
identified and agreed upon by
30 June 2000, target: stable
unit costs over time.
1.2 To improve information   1.2.1 Number of GP offices    1.2.1 Administrative records  1.2 Transition to
flows through provision and   and hospitals equipped with  from NHIF and regional  computerized environment
use of information systems in  information system      health insurance funds      will be "bug-free", allowing
GP offices, hospitals, and the  technologies (target 3500                          the timely exchange of
NHIF                       physicians and 150 hospitals  1.2.2 PMU will provide a  information.
equipped)                  short written qualitative
assessments strengths and
weaknesses of the system
annually
1.3 To ensure a fully-     1.3.1 Set of four indicators,   1.3.1 Administrative records   1.3. Cost-effective health
functioning health insurance analyzed against annual   of NHIF and regional        insurance administration will
system, including:         targets: (a) premium        insurance funds             help to control overall health
(a) premium collection     collection rates, by category                           care costs.
(b) subscriber registration    (employee, unemployed, etc.)  1.3.2 Comparison of health
(c) provider contracting/  and source of funding       insurance administrative costs
payment                    (municipality, employee,,    to those of other jurisdictions
(d) utilization analysis and   Unemployment Bureau); (b)  (NHIF and OECD reports).
financial management       number of subscriber
registrations by location; (c)
utilization rates per provider
[aggregated]; and (d)
reimbursements to physicians
by region, in absolute and per
capita terms (desired baseline
TBD, target 85% of baseline
levels.
1.3.2 Administrative costs of
NHIF, compared to target and
compared to other
jurisdictions (initially 3-4%,
target 2-3%)
- 28 -



2.1 To ensure access to basic  2.1.1 Number of GPs     2. 1.1 Administrative records  2.1.1 That physicians who are
package of well- functioning  contracted with NHIF by  of NHIF.                    contracted are working in the
services to all members of the geographic area & by                                locations specified.
population, including       "undesirable" location
vulnerable groups, through a  (baseline need TBD, target
newly-designed network of    75% of need).
GPs & hospitals.
2.1.2 Percentage of Roma                               2.1.2 Roma selected for focus
population who report       2.1.2 Qualitative, focus group groups are representative of
satisfactory or better access to  discussions with Roma,  the Roma population rather
and treatment by GPs       organized by NGOs or        than those pre-selected from
(baseline TBD, target 80%  research study groups.      physician registers.
improvement over baseline).
2.2 To heighten quality of    2.2.1 Number of          2.2.1 Administrative records  2.2.1 - 2.2.2 That provision of
health services through    municipalities with current   of NHIF and regional health  better equipment to physician
provision of better equipment contracts to lease medical    insurance funds.       will translate to better health
and supplies, improved service equipment to GPs, compared                          care; that physician has
standards for quality      to target number (Target 1500                           received the appropriate
assurance, and increased   practices).                                             training to use the equipment,
incentives to provide                                                              and that equipment contracted
high-quality care.         2.2.2 Medical audit results (on                         out is appropriate for the
adherence to conditions of    2.2.2 Administrative records  disease profile of the
contract, appropriate use of   of the Medical Audit Dept of  municipality.
practice guidelines, and   the National Health Insurance
rational prescribing practices), Fund
comparing practices who have
received equipment vs. those
who have not (target 95% of
those who receive equipment
have favorable or better
results).
2.3 To improve capacity of   2.3.1 Disbursements and   2.3.1 Administrative records  2.3.1 Most effective methods
providers through training in repayments to the Investment of the Health Reform    to improve capacity of
use of upgraded equipment,   Program for: (a) physicians,  Investment Program      providers is to provide
regular conduct of medical    and (b) hospitals (target 600   Implementing Agency  training, additional
audits, and availability of the  physicians and 80 hospitals,                      opportunities for better
Investment Program for     90% repayment).                                         equipment, and through
locally- selected upgrades to                                                      medical audits.
facilities and equipment.
-29 -



2.4 To better inform public   2.4.1 Percentage of        2.4.1 Questions in public     2.4.1 That a well-informed
about the benefits and their   respondents who report: (a)   opinion polls.           public will be supportive or
responsibilities under the  being registered with or                                  and compliant with the health
health reforms.             knowing how to register with                              reform.
a GP: (b) being aware of
benefits provided and expected
out-of-pocket expenses for
provision of services; and (3)
being aware of "hot-lines" for
information, complaints
(baseline TBD, target 80% in
all 3 areas).
- 30 -



Key Performance,
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators          Monitorin  & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
A. Primary and Ambulatory             IBRD $17.64 M Project Management Reports  1. A well-trained physician
Care Reform                              GOB $5.7M (Quarterly and Annual), as   population with better clinical
detailed in Monitoring and    equipment and information
Evaluation section.       systems will provide improved
health care services.
B. Hospital Care Reform               IBRD $17.1 M                             2. A smaller number of
GOB $9.6 M                            well-equipped hospitals with
improved information systems
will provide better inpatient
care services.
C. Health Financing                    IBRD $16.4 M                            3. The incentives contained in
Reforn/NHIF                              GOB $8.3 M                            the package of benefits,
provider payment methods,
and NHIF infrastructure will
support a sustainable health
financing system.
D. Capacity Building                   IBRD $12.2 M                            4. Training, public
GOB  $0.1 M                            information and technical
assistance will contribute to
the smooth implementation
and sustainability of the health
reforms.
-31 -



Annex 2: Project Description
BULGARIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
The proposed project would be implemented over five years. The project would be financed by an
IBRD Loan of US$63.30 million and Government financing of about $23.66 million ($15.0 million net of
taxes). The project is part of an overall Framework Program to implement health reform. The project
itself has four components, while an additional three components are included in the Framework Program.
The costs shown below are total costs, including the Government contribution.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$23.25 million
A.  PRIMARY AND AMBULATORY CARE REFORM
This component would include providing practice equipment to another 1,500 primary health care
doctors, funding physician office information systems for 3,500 practices, providing training in GP practice
management to 2,500 physicians, funding a public information campaign to inform the public about
changes in the ambulatory care system, financing a health reform investment program to provide
low-interest loans to physicians who make desired investments in new equipment and facilities, and funding
a labor adjustment strategy to transition surplus physicians out of the health sector in Bulgaria. In this
way, the project is addressing the key reform issues in the ambulatory care sector: lack of equipment and
facilities, lack of training, surplus capacity, and lack of knowledge on the part of the public about the
implications and benefits of the health reforms.
The component would include the following activities:
(1) Primary Care Practice Equipment (US$7.2M). This activity would provide PHC practice
equipment to 1,500 newly established family physicians focusing on those in rural and
under-serviced areas of the country. This would continue the approach of the PHC component
of the first Health Sector Restructuring Project. The criteria for the selection of these practices
would be similar to that used in the first project, and would reflect the overall health needs as
defined in the National Health Map. The equipment and supplies purchased would also be
essentially the same as that purchased through the first project, although sorme modifications
may be made to reflect the lessons leamed from that project. Training on the use of the
equipment, and primary care practice management would be provided through the training
sub-component described below.
Inputs:      Equipment acquired through ICB and UNICEF
Outcome:     Fully functioning primary care practices.
Responsible Unit: MOH, PMU
(2) Health Reform Investment Program (US$3.OM). This Program will be supported by the
NHIF as a means of encouraging physicians to make investments in equipment and facilities
that are necessary to ensure high quality and efficient patient care within a sustainable
financing system. Lease-to-own arrangements will be available to (a) Gen-eral practitioners
not covered under the previous activity, (b) medical and surgical specialists, and (c) diagnostic
specialists, to permit them to purchase specific types of equipment or make particular
- 32 -



improvements to their physical infrastructure. The interest rate, though preferential, will be set
at a level so that it would not need to be subsidized. Payments would be guaranteed by the
future income of the GP practices from the NHIF, and secured by the equipment until it is fully
paid for. Payments would be made through deductions from the regular payments made by the
NHIF to these physicians (a valid contract with the NHIF would be one of the key eligibility
conditions), and the funds recaptured in this way would be available to finance further
investment activity. The criteria, payment terms and other procedures will be included in the
Operations Manual and defined in advance, so that physicians can make an informed decision
on whether to access these funds. A maximum amount of $5,000 per physician is envisioned.
The primary objective is to encourage physicians to make the necessary investments, while
getting the maximum benefit out of a limited pool of funds. Current Bulgarian legislation
places specific requirements before credit-giving institutions, and NHIF will need some type of
special arrangement in order to create and run this Program. Administratively, the investment
program will have to be in compliance with Bulgarian legislation on banking and credits. In
similar cases with other target funds, either special legislation was developed, or a licensed
financial intermediary was used. NHIF will work with MoH and appropriate government
agencies to define the legal framework in which the Program will function, and will take
necessary steps to ensure that the fund complies with all requirements of other relevant
Bulgarian laws and regulations.
Inputs:       Investment funds, administrative infrastructure of NHIF.
Outcome:  Well equipped and functional ambulatory care facilities.
Responsible Unit: NHIF, PMU
(3) Labor Adjustment Strategy (US$2.6M). It is clear that in order to have a functional and
sustainable ambulatory care sector, something needs to be done to address the substantial
excess capacity that currently exists in the health system. Unless this is done, the NHIF will be
faced with increasing pressure to contract with more physicians, with the likely result that
costs will be much higher than they should be. This labor adjustment program is designed to
transition excess physicians (an estimated 1,000 physicians with the funds available) out of the
health care sector and into other areas of the economy. It will include severance payments,
retraining, and start-up funds for entrepreneurial activity, and will be financed by the
Government.
The severance payments component will be based on existing options and experience as well as
on new programs especially designed for the health sector workers. The classic part of the
program will constitute a one-time payment of 6 to 12 monthly salaries (or approximately
USD 1000 per person) for health sector workers and physicians leaving the sector because of
closing down of clinics and other PHC establishments.
The Bulgarian experience in designing and administering severance payments programs, and
the available opportunities under current legislation include the following:
1. The scheme for severance payments under the CoM Regulation 100 from 1996, which
applies for large-scale state enterprises under liquidation, restructuring and privatization.
The package. in this case consists of 2 components: (a) a passive labor market measure in
the form of one-time universal payment for all laid-off, amounting to BGL 1000 (USD
500) and (b) an active labor market measure in the form of additional payment of BGL
1000 after the submission of a business plan for the start-up of a family business or self
- 33 -



employment.   To deal with the problem of the insufficient budget of the Professional
Qualification and Unemployment Fund, as well as the active labor market programs
(ALMP's), the project will provide a targeted funding allocation.
2. The framework of the existing legal regulations (Unemployment Security and Employment
Promotion Act) allows the introduction of special training and retraining programs, leading
to permanent employment in areas requiring a mix of the "new" and the "old" skills of the
trainees.  These activities might include:  (a)  financial support to participate in
professional qualification courses under art. 91 of the Unemployment Security and
Employment Promotion Act for people who are already unemployed; and (b) professional
qualification for people working in enterprises under restructuring (art. 90, para 1(4) of the
Law). Specialized training events can be organized to allow people with secondary and
tertiary medical education to move to the social services provision area. The Social
Assistance Act and the Regulation for its implementation provide opportunities for NGOs
and other non-govermment providers to take over the provision of specific social services
after licensing.  Similar programs can be developed for inspectors of the sanitary
conditions in food-processing companies, markets, food warehouses, etc., and for
counselors to work with marginalized groups - drug addicts, HIV positive, alcoholics,
heavy smokers, street children, delinquent children, prisoners and ex-prisoners, abused
persons, heavily handicapped, people with suicidal behavior and other psychological
problems, etc. There is a need for such services and for job openings in schools, hospitals,
community centers, etc.
3. It is possible to encourage private business settings where the educational background and
the professional qualification and experience of the laid-off medical staff could be best
utilized - e.g. running small-scale institutions for children, people with disabilities, old
people terminally ill people, etc. This is a still unoccupied "niche" of the Bulgarian social
services emerging market. Its development needs different types of interventions and
support, including:
- marketing and detailed needs assessment;
- business education and motivation of the people to grasp the business opportunities;
- counseling to build confidence, entrepreneurial spirit and awareness of the social,
importance of this type of business enterprises;
- information and training for getting acquainted with the best and most advanced
foreign professional and business practices;
- financial support (loans, credit quarantees) for the start-up costs at favorable rates
and repayment conditions;
- elaborate licensing and other standards for the establishment of such businesses, set
monitoring indicators and regulatory body.
Inputs: Intemational expertise, existing and newly developed labor adjustment
programs, severance and start-up payments.
Outcome:       Lower number of physicians in the health sector.
Responsible Unit: MOH, NHIF and BMA
(4) Physician  Office Information  Systems (US$8.2M).   This activity  would provide
approximately 3500 physician offices and clinics with computer hardware and specialized
application software to allow physicians to communicate with the NHIF regarding patient
eligibility, provide activity and diagnostic information to the NHIF, and facilitate practice
-34 -



management and quality assurance activities. By capturing this information at source for both
physicians offices and hospitals, the NHIF estimates that approximately 1,000 full-time staff
hires can be averted in the insurance fund administration. In addition, access to this data will
allow the NHIF to carry out its medical audit and quality assurance functions in a more
cost-effective manner by providing physician profiling and patterns of practice review.
Inputs:      Information technologies (hardware, standard and specialized software)
and training (see below).
Outcome:     More cost-effective ambulatory care system and health insurance
administration.
Responsible Unit: NHIF, PMU
(5) Training and Public Information (US$2.2M). To ensure that the equipment and other
investments provided under this component are used properly, this sub-component provides
training in practice management and the use of new equipment and information systems to
physicians contracted by the NHIF. In addition, a public information campaign will be funded
to ensure that the general public are aware of their rights and obligations under the new
financial and organizational arrangements.
Inputs:      International expertise and local kiiowledge, media materials
Outcome:        A well informed public that is confident that they will be able to obtain the
care they need, when they need it.
Responsible Unit:   MOH, NHIF, PMU with additional local input
Project Component 2 - US$26.61 million
B.    HOSPITAL CARE REFORM
This cornponent involves support for the implementation of health reform in the hospital system.
Although the contracting process will not commence until July 1, 2001, owing to the size and complexity of
the hospital system, it is critical that the planning and implementation of these reforms commence as soon
as possible. This component would include funding hospital information systems for 150 hospitals,
providing training in hospital management to almost 2,000 managers and staff, funding a public
information campaign to inform the public about changes in the hospital care system, financing a health
reform investment program to provide lease-to-own arrangements for hospitals to make desired investments
in new equipment and facilities, and funding a labor adjustment strategy to transition surplus hospital staff
out of the health sector in Bulgaria.
The component would include the following activities:
(1) Health Reform Investment Program (US$8.OM). This Program will be supported by the
NHIF as a means of encouraging hospitals to make investments in equipment and facilities that
are necessary to ensure high quality and efficient patient care within a sustainable financing
system. Low-interest lease to own arrangements will be available to hospitals to permit them
to make investments that improve energy efficiency or hospital hygiene, or to purchase specific
types of equipment or make particular improvements to their physical infrastructure. The
criteria, repayment terms and other procedures will be defined in advance, so that hospital
managers can make an informed decision on whether to access these funds. A maximum
- 35 -



sub-project size of $150,000 per hospital is envisioned, and the average is expected to be
$100,000. Payments would be made through deductions from the regular payments made by
the NHIF to these hospitals (a valid contract with the NHIF would be one of the key eligibility
conditions), and funds recaptured in this way would be available to finance further investment
activity. The primary objective is to encourage hospitals to make the necessary investments,
while getting the maximum benefit out of a limited pool of funds. Conditions will the similar
to those explained in Component 1(2) above.
Inputs:       Investment fimds, administrative infrastructure of NHIF.
Outcome:  Well equipped and functional hospital care facilities.
Responsible Unit: NHIF, PMU
(2) Labor Adjustment Strategy (US$7.OM). It is clear that in order to have a functional and
sustainable hospital care sector, something needs to be done to address the substantial excess
capacity that currently exists in the health system. Unless this is done, the NHIF will be faced
with increasing pressure to contract with more hospitals, with the likely result that costs will be
much higher than they should be. This labor adjustment program is designed to transition
excess hospital workers out of the health care sector and into other areas of the economy. It
will include severance payments, retraining, and start-up funds for entrepreneurial activity, and
will be financed by the Government. The severance payments component will be based on
existing options and experience as well as on new programs especially designed for the health
sector workers (as discussed for Component 1(3) above). The classic part of the program will
constitute a one-time payment of 6 to 12 monthly salaries (or approximately between USD
1000 per person) for health sector workers and physicians leaving the sector because of closing
down hospitals. It is expected that approximately 2,800 hospital workers will be included in
this program.
Inputs: International expertise, existing and newly developed labor adjustment
programs, severance and start-up payments.
Outcome:      Lower number of hospital workers in the health sector.
Responsible Unit: MOH, NHIF
(3) Hospital Management Information Systems (US$7.5M).  This activity would provide
approximately 150 hospitals with computer hardware and specialized application software to
allow them to communicate with the NHIF regarding patient eligibility, provide activity and
diagnostic information to the NHIF, and facilitate hospital management and quality assurance
activities. By capturing this information at source for both physicians offices and hospitals,
the NHIF estimates that approximately 1,000 full-time staff hires can be averted in the
insurance fund administration. In addition, access to this data will allow the NHIF to carry out
its medical audit and quality assurance functions in a more cost-effective manner by providing
physician and hospital profiling and patterns of practice review. These systems would also
serve as a platform for future development of DRG systems which will allow easier
comparisons of hospital activities.
Inputs:       Information technologies (hardware, standard and specialized software)
and training (see below).
Outcome:      More cost-effective hospital system and health insurance
administration.
Responsible Unit: NHIF, PMU
- 36 -



(4) Training and Public Information (US$4.1M). To ensure that-the equipment and other
investments provided under this component are used properly, this sub-component provides
training in hospital management and case mix systems for hospital managers and their staff for
those hospitals contracted by the NHIF. In addition, a public information campaign will be
funded to ensure that the general public are aware of their rights and obligations under the new
financial and organizational arrangements.
Inputs:      Intemational expertise and local knowledge, media materials
Outcome:        A well informed public that is confident that they will be able to obtain the
care they need, when they need it.
Responsible Unit:   MOH, NHIF, PMU with additional local input
Project Component 3 - US$ 24.74 million
C.    HEALTH CARE FINANCING/NHIF
This component would assist the National Health Insurance Fund in establishing the technological
infrastructure required to operate the national health insurance system. This would include the extensive
hardware and software systems needed, as well as the training and technical assistance required to
implement and maintain them.
The original estimate of staffing requirements for the NHIF was 4,500 individuals, but as a result
of the investments being proposed, both in the NHIF itself and in provider offices and facilities, it is
expected that no more than 1,800 staff will be required when the system is fully operational.
The component would include the following activities:
(1) NHIF Information Systems (US$16.4). This sub-component of the project would include:
(a) the expansion of the NHIF and RHIF's technology infrastructure (hardware, standard
software, communications equipment); (b) the establishment of a fully-redundant back-up /
disaster-recovery facility outside of Sofia; (c) document management and work flow systems;
and (d) a large capacity back-up generator for NHIF HQ building. Database licenses and
communications service charges are included, to be funded out of NHIF resources.
Inputs :     Intemational expertise, together with local knowledge, Information
technologies (hardware, standard and specialized software) and training (see below).
Outputs:     State-of-the-art information systems providing a high level of functionality
Responsible Unit: NHIF, PMU
(2) Training/Software Development (US$9.7). This sub-component includes specialized
training for the information technology (IT) staff, as well as: (a) the extension of NHIF's core
operational system software to cover the contracting and reimbursements of the primary and
hospital sub-sectors; (b) computer-assisted software engineering tools, i.e., "CASE" tools; (c)
general purpose business management software and related hardware, e.g., payroll, personnel,
budget, accounting, etc.; and (d) specialized analytical software to allow NHIF management
to make the maximum use of their accumulated databases.
- 37 -



Inputs:      International expertise, together with local knowledge
Outputs:     State-of-the-art information systems providing a high level of functionality
Responsible Unit: NHIF, PMU
Project Component 4 - US$12.36 million
D.  CAPACITY BUILDING AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT
This component would strengthen the management and institutional capacity within the Ministry of
Health, the National Health Insurance Fund, and the health system generally. It would also provide an
overall package of technical assistance and public information to support the health reform process, and
would fund project management and financial management, monitoring and evaluation activity.
The component would include the following activities:
(1) Training of Staff (US$1.9M). This activity would provide training to staff of the NHIF
related to new procedures and operations, and would fund study tours to allow NHIF and
MOH staff to observe and study first-hand the approaches used by other jurisdictions in
administering their national health insurance system.
Inputs:      Training materials and external technical expertise
Outcome:     Fully capable, professional health system managers
Responsible Unit: MOH, NHIF, PMU
(2) Public Information and Technical Assistance (US$6.8M). This sub-component will finance
an overall public information campaign for potential providers and the general public to
highlight the key changes that will be made to the health system in terms of both organization
and financing, and to describe the rights and responsibilities of each of the affected groups with
regard to these changes. One of the key messages will be the official level of co-payments
contained in the Health Insurance Act, and the fact that payments beyond this level are not
appropriate. This sub-component also funds technical assistance in a number of key areas to
assist in the implementation of the health reforms and to build capacity within the NHIF,
including (but not limited to) the areas of:
* modem management methods (especially in large, geographically decentralized
organizations)
*  health insurance management, focusing on each of the core business processes of the
NHIF
* health care organization and management, including human resource management
* health care utilization management and statistical/financial analysis
* understanding and using actuarial reports and analysis
* managing large distributed information systems
* population-based funding methods
Inputs:      External expertise, media materials.
Outcome: Smooth implementation of health reforms, good level of understanding of reform
process, rights and responsibilities by consumers and providers.
Responsible Unit: NHIF, MOH, PMU
- 38 -



(3) Health Information Standards, Forms Rationalization (US$1.4M). This sub-component
will finance the formulation of health information standards on a national level. The topical
areas of health information standards will include: (a) subject of care; (b) health status; (c)
health provider; (d) health care activities; and (e) health care resources. Health information
privacy and authorization standards will also be addressed. These standards will reflect
national needs and practices, yet be consistent with international best practices, including EU
standards. In conjunction with the health information standards formulation process, the
sub-component will also finance work to rationalize and streamline the numerous reports and
reporting formats used throughout the health sector. This will both improve the efficiency of
reporting and monitoring actives, as well as improve the quality of information by reducing the
burden of line-of-care health service providers.
Inputs:       International and local expertise.
Outcome: More effective operational and management systems based on rationalized and
streamlined set of reporting forms (across the various health sector agencies).
Responsible Unit: NHIF, MOH, PMU, with input from various other health sector
agencies and professional associations
(4) Quality of Care / Accreditation (US$0.2M). This sub-component will finance the expansion
of the recently launched activities to strengthen the NHIF and MOH's capacity to assess and
actively manage the quality of health care though, among other mechanisms, accreditation
processes. This work will be closely coordinated with the health information standards and
forms rationalization initiatives, especially in the quality of care related monitoring and
evaluation activities.
Inputs:       Intemational and local expertise.
Outcome: Higher and more uniform quality of health care provided.
Responsible Unit: NHIF, MOH, PMU, with input from various other health sector
agencies and professional associations
(5) Project Management (US$1.1M). This sub-component provides for the overall coordination
and management of the project activities through funding the PMU director and six additional
staff and paying the operating costs of the PMU. It also provides for project management and
procurement consulting advice, training for the PMU staff, and office equipment, renovations
and a PMU vehicle.
Inputs: Local experts, materials and supplies.
Outcome:     Exceptional project coordination and management.
Responsible Unit: MOH, NHIF and PMU
(6) Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.3M). This sub-component would provide for annual
project audits and for technical assistance to conduct ongoing monitoring and evaluation
activities.
Inputs:       Financial and technical assistance.
Outcome:     Clear understanding of financial situation and project impact.
Responsible Unit: PMU
- 39 -



(7) Front-end Fee (US$0.6M). The Government of Bulgaria has asked that the front-end fee be-
paid out of the proceeds of the loan.
Project Component 5 - US$28.01 million
E.    NHIF INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
This component includes the significant investment in facilities, hardware, software and training that has
already taken place, as form an integral part of the overall implementation of the health insurance system,
and the health reform it supports. These investments will ensure that the first phase of contracting with
physicians can commence as planned on July 1, 2001.
Inputs:      International expertise, together with local knowledge
Outputs:     State-of-the-art information systems providing a high level of functionality
Responsible Unit: NHIF
Project Component 6 - US$2.00 million
F.    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (SWISS GOVERNMENT)
This component includes the substantial technical assistance grant (CHF 3 million equivalent) from the
Swiss government, which will fund essential support in the areas of general management, health insurance
operations, human resources management, information systems management and essential training for
senior managers. These activities form an essential foundation for the activities supported by the project.
Inputs:      International expertise, together with local knowledge
Outputs:     Improved management capability and state-of-the-art information systems
providing a high level of functionality
Responsible Unit: NHIF
Project Component 7 - US$2.50 million
G.    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (USAID)
This component includes additional technical assistance by the United States government through USAID
with respect to their project to support financial and investment management within the NHIF. The Bank
has worked with USAID to ensure that the package of technical assistance being provided compliments the
activities financed by the Swiss government and the Bank. Ongoing aid coordination will be an essential
element of the project implementation.
Inputs:      Intemational expertise, together with local knowledge
Outputs:     State-of-the-art information systems providing a high level of functionality
Responsible Unit: NHIF
-40 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BULGARIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Local  A-  Foreign-    Total
Project Cost BY Component                US $million,   US $million   US Smillion
1. Primary and Ambulatory Care Reform                      8.71         13.95        22.66
2. Hospital Care Reform                                   16.46          9.50        25.96
3. Health Care Financing Reform/NHIF                       2.60         19.88        22.48
4. Capacity Building                                       4.60          6.60         11.20
Total Baseline Cost                                       32.37         49.93        82.30
Physical Contingencies                                    0.44          1.34          1.78
Price Contingencies                                       0.76          1.49         2.25
Total Project Costs              33.57        52.76         86.33
Front-end fee                     0.63         0.63
Total Financing Required              33.57         53.39         86.96
Local       Foreign       "Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million    US $rmillion,  US $million
Goods                                                       11.44         38.19         49.63
Works                                                        1.85          0.47          2.32
Services                                                     1.66          6.97          8.63
Training                                                     5.68           1.56         7.24
Operating Costs                                              1.45          5.57          7.02
Other                                                        9.60          0.00          9.60
Technical Services                                           1.89          0.00          1.89
Total Project Costs     33.57         52.76         86.33
Front-end fee                    0.63          0.63
Total Financing Required     33.57          53.39        86.96
-41 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BULGARIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Macro-Economic Context
According to the CAS, economic dislocation has hit the population of Bulgaria hard. Limited
fiscal resources have sharply constrained the Government's ability to address the needs of the poor. In the
short term, the Government's efforts are focused on ensuring that the costs of transition are socially
sustainable and on reducing the number of families living in poverty after the recent crisis. As shown in the
table below, although economic growth is currently positive in real terms, it has had several setbacks in the
last eight years.
In the medium term, and following the slow-down caused by the war in Kosovo in 1999, the
economy of Bulgaria is expected to show a sustained robust recovery of aggregate output. Inflation is
expected to be moderate, and the exchange rate is expected to strengthen against the dollar over the next
five years.
BULGARIA: MACRO-ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Per capita GNP (Atlas method, constant US$)   1,250   1,250    1,370    1,200   1,180   1,230   1,470
Real Annual Growth of GDP               -15%    1.8%    2.9%   -10.1%   -7.0%    3.5%    2.5%
% increase in Consumer Prices, annual avg.    72.8%   96.0%   62.1%   123.0%  1082.0%   22.3%    0.5%
Public Expenditures on Health (US$ million)    521.6   396.3   474.0   307.1   375.8   460.3   509.4
Public Expenditures on Health (% of GDP)  4.8%    4.0%    3.6%   3.12%    3.7%    3.8%    4.2%
Source: MoF, National Statistical Institute, WB staff estimates
Data for 1999 are preliminary.
Scope of Work
The economic analysis included here is a cost-benefit analysis and it is limited to an exploration of
the likely impact of the key elements of the project relating to the sector reforms being supported and the
establishment of the National Health Insurance Fund. Given that the NHIF implementation and the related
sector reforms are proceeding, this analysis compares the "with" and "without" project alternatives. The
analysis is based on the investment and recurring costs and benefits of undertaking the project over a
20-year period, and examines the impact on the health sector alone (e.g., increased VAT from project
expenditures is not considered as a benefit).
To provide a conservative assessment of the likely costs and benefits of the health reform project
implementation, this analysis focused primarily on the direct impact of the reforms. As a result of the
significant investments being made in information systems it is expected that the National Health Insurance
Fund will be able to operate with a total of 1,800 staff. This compares to an original plan -- which had
been approved by the Government -- by the NHIF for 4,500 staff without these investrnents. In addition,
the severance programs to be funded by the Ministry of Health should permanently remove about 3,840
physicians and hospital staff from the work force thereby relieving some of the pressure on future growth in
health expenditures. The final area examined includes the various investment programs, which will
-42 -



primarily have the impact of improving quality of care, but will also generate some ongoing savings due to
the requirement to pay back some of the funds provided. The following table summnarizes the key benefits:
Key Benefits Identified
Provider Information Systems    1,000  fewer staff required in NHIF
Central Information Systems     1,700  fewer staff required in NHIF
Severance Programs              3,840  fewer staff in health system
Investment Programs             2,200  physicians and hospitals affected
better quality of care, funds reinvested
Costs include the direct investment costs, the replacement of equipment (estimated life of 5 years),
plus equipment maintenance (estimated at 10 percent of the value of the equipment each year).
Potential Savings Not Included
Other areas where savings can be expected, and which are not shown below, include the impact of
the improved information systems on quality assurance and pattems of practice monitoring. The Slovenia
Health Sector Management Project, based on detailed analysis by the Australian Health Insurance
Commission, projects reductions in average lengths of stays in hospitals of almost 30 percent over five
years, with 20 to 30 percent of the decrease attributable to improved health information systems. It should
be pointed out that the ALOS for Slovenia was 8.6 days in 1999, compared to 12.9 for Bulgaria,
Conservatively, a 20 percent reduction or more should be feasible in Bulgaria.
With expected hospital expenditures under the NHIF of approximately BGL 700 million,
equivalent to about US$350 million, and assuming that the reduction in ALOS would (in the short run)
result in lower costs in drugs, food, linen and plant operations, the impact of this reduction would be
approximately US$24.3 million per year. If 30 percent of this saving was attributable to improved
information systems, the effect would be US$7.3 million annually. Of course in the longer run, changes
can be made to salaries and other more fixed costs.
Another area of potential savings is the more effective use of pharmaceuticals as a result of the
introduction of clinical practice guidelines (which include recommendations for prescribing behavior), and
the ability to monitor prescribing behavior through the clinical information systems (for pharmacies as well
as service providers) being introduced through this project. Based on expected drug costs of about BGL
150 million (US$ 75 million), even a 10 percent reduction in unnecessary drug use would result in annual
savings of around US$7.5 million.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The table below provides an overview of the cost-benefit analysis:
- 43 -



BULGARIA HEALTH REFORM PROJECT
COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
Replace &
Initial    Maintain                Total   Net Benefits            Cumulative
SUMMARY          Investments Equipment Total Costs   Benefits    (Cost)        NPV        NPV
2001       7,446                  7,446       1,859      -5,587     -5,587      -5,587
2002      21,665        308      21,972       6,198     -15,774    -14,340     -19,927
2003      26,687      1,629      28,316      10,780     -17,536    -14,493     -34,419
2004      19,734      2,893      22,627      14,924      -7,703     -5,787     -40,207
2005      11,434      4,053      15,487      18,600      3,113       2,126     -38,081
2006                  8,588       8,588     22,787      14,199       8,816     -29,264
2007                 20,725      20,725     26,794       6,069       3,426     -25,839
2008                 19,124      19,124     28,739       9,615       4,934     -20,905
2009                 16,263      16,263     29,431      13,168       6,143     -14,762
2010                 12,274      12,274     29,123      16,849       7,146      -7,616
2011                 10,174      10,174     31,336      21,162'      8,159        543
2012                 26,451      26,451     35,995       9,545       3,345      3,888
2013                 24,408      24,408     37,603      13,194       4,204      8,092
2014                 20,756      20,756     37,184      16,428       4,759      12,851
2015                 15,665      15,665     36,175      20,510       5,401      18,252
2016                 12,985      12,985     40,314      27,329       6,542     24,794
2017                 33,759      33,759     48,391      14,632       3,184     27,978
2018                 31,151      31,151     50,743      19,592       3,876     31,854
2019                 25,813      25,813     48,618      22,805       4,102     35,956
2020                 19,993      19,993     44,939      24,946       4,079     40,035
Sum             86,965     307,014    393,979     600,533     206,554     40,035
PV              71,832     101,844     173,676    213,711      40,035
Main Assumptions:
The following table highlights the key assumptions used in the analysis:
-44 -



ASSUMPTIONS
Loan Amount                               $63.3 million
Discount Rate                            10.0%
Wage Inflation                            5.0%
Non-wage Inflation                        5.0%
Exchange Rate (BGL/USD)                   2.00
Aveage Salary (BGL-2001)                   321 /month
NHIF Staffing no project                  4,500
- savings Provider Systems                1,000
- savings Central Systems                 1,700
NHIF Staffing with Project                1,800
Severance -- Physicians Affected          1,040
Severance -- Hospital Staff Affected      2,800
Severance -- Total Staff Affected         3,840
Unit $ NHIF Workstation                   2,900
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The sensitivity analysis looked at four areas: the discount rate used, the average increase in salary costs,
the expected savings (cost avoidance) in the NHIF, and the expected savings in staff due to the severance
arrangements. The results are shown in the attached table, and indicate that in most cases, even significant
changes in the underlying assumptions do not result in negative net present values. The two areas that are most
sensitive are the NHIF staff savings, where minimum savings of 1,850 staff (4,500-2,650) are required to break
even, and the severance staff savings, when minimum reductions of 1,685 staff are required.
-45 -



Sensitivity Analysis
Base Case
Discount Rate                        4%       10%       12%
NPV ($M)               110.7      40.0      26.7
Wage & Non-wage Inflation            3%        5%       10%
NPV ($M)                24.0      40.0    111.7
NHIF Staff Savings                 2,000     2,700     3,000
NPV ($M)                 7.1      40.0      54.1
Breakeven @ 2,650 total staff
Severance Staff Savings            2,500     3,840     5,000
NPV ($M)                16.9      40.0      68.7
Breakeven @ 1, 685 staff reductions
Risk Analysis
In terms of risks related to the sensitivity analysis, there are minimal risks associated with either
the selection of a discount or inflation rate. The inflation rate used reflects the current projections of
mediutn-terTn inflation. The biggest down-side risk here from a macro-economic perspective is that
inflation will increase significantly. However, since the key savings are related to staffing avoidance or
reduction, higher inflation will amplify the benefits.
The risks clearly reside with the potential staff savings or avoidance. The savings in the NHIF
shown in the base case are the result of considerable discussion by the Bank team with the Fund, and are
reflected in agreements that serve as the basis for the development of this project. As such, there is a high
probability that the agreed staffing levels will be achieved.
Severance staff savings are more problematic, since there are fewer controls to ensure that staff
making use of the severance programs actually stay out of the health care system. The NHIF has some
control on the numbers of physicians, as these have direct contracts with the fund. The hospital sector will
have contracts only at a global budget level, so there are fewer controls on workers who have received
severance payments coming back into the system. The global budgets themselves will tend to serve as a
barrier to the re-entry of these staff. Thus, the system taken as a whole points to a high probability that
those people severed will remain outside the health system. The severance program will be well funded on
a per-staff basis to ensure that people who are severed feel well treated, and have a good chance at
achieving long-term alternative employment. As long as minimum of 1,685 people are be permanently
severed, the overall project will show a positive NPV (ceteris paribus).
-46 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BULGARIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Project Costs by Component and Expenditure Type
Totals Incl. Contingencies
(USS'000)
Civil     Goods      Other      Tech.    Training       TA        Oper.     TOTAL
Works      Gos        Ohr       Services                           Costs
IBRD Plus Local Contributions
A. PrimaryandAmbulatoryCarel         300.0  1,142.5    2,600.0       550.0    1,655.5                           23,248.0
B. Hospital Care Reform            2,000.0   13,534.2    7,000.0      550.0    3,528.0                           26,612.2
C. Health Financing Reform/NHIF              17,147.8                           1,548.8     600.0    5,445.0    24,741.6
D. CapacityBuilding                   20.0      805.0      633.0      790.0      504.0    8,034.2    1,576.6    12,362.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                  2,320.0   49,629.5   10,233.0    1,890.0    7,236.3    8,634.2    7,021.6    86,964.6
IBRD Costs
A. PrimaryandAmbulatoryCarel         255.0   15,118.8                 550.0    1,655.5                           17,579.3
B. Hospital Care Reform            1,700.0   11,278.5                 550.0    3,528.0                           17,056.5
C. Health Financing Reform/NHIF              14,289.8                           1,548.8     600.0                16,438.6
D. Capacity Building                  17.0      670.8      633.0      790.0      504.0    8,034.2    1,576.6    12,225.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                  1,972.0   41,357.9     633.0    1,890.0    7,236.3    8,634.2    1,576.6    63,300.0
Local Costs
A. Primary and Ambulatory Care 1      45.0    3,023.8    2,600.0                                                  5,668.8
B. Hospital Care Reform              300.0    2,255.7    7,000.0                                                  9,555.7
C. Health Financing Reform/NHIF               2,858.0                                                 5,445.0     8,303.0
D. Capacity Building                   3.0      134.2                                                               137.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                   348.0    8,271.6    9,600.0                                      5,445.0    23,664.6
27.2%
Total PROJECT COSTS net of Taxes
-Total Costs                        1,975.0   41,357.9   10,233.0    1,890.0    7,236.3    8,634.2    7,021.6    78,348.0
IBRD Costs                         1,972.0   41,357.9      633.0    1,890.0    7,236.3    8,634.2    1,576.6    63,300.0
Local Costs                                              9,600.0                                      5,445.0    15,045.0
Local Percent                                             93.8%                                        77.5%       19.2%
-47 -



Project Costs by Fiscal Year
Totals Inel. Contingencies
(US$'000)
2001       2002       2003       2004        2005       Total
rOTAL ALL FUNDING SOURCES
A. Primary and Ambulatory Care Refo,    1,293.0    6,539.0    6,557.0    6,375.5    2,483.5    23,248.0
B. Hospital Care Reform                 220.0    2,646.0    9,145.0    8,205.3     6,395.9    26,612.2
C. Health Financing Reform/NHIF       3,283.7    8,922.0    7,769.0    3,144.4      1,622.5    24,741.6
D. CapacityBuilding                   2,649.0    3,557.7    3,215.9    2,008.6       931.7    12,362.8
rotal PROJECT COSTS                     7,445.7   21,664.6   26,686.9   19,733.8   11,433.6    86,964.6
Cumulative                            7,445.7   29,110.3   55,797.2   75,531.0   86,964.6
IBRD Costs
A. PrimaryandAmbulatoryCareRefoi    1,132.5    5,138.8    4,954.5    4,773.0        1,580.5    17,579.3
B. Hospital Care Reform                 220.0    2,339.7    5,773.5    5,017.6    3,705.8    17,056.5
C. Health Financing Reform/NHIF       2,443.5    6,839.9    5,447.9     1,537.8      169.6    16,438.6
D. Capacity Building                  2,634.3    3,505.2    3,180.9    1,973.6       931.7    12,225.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                     6,430.3   17,823.5   19,356.8   13,302.0    6,387.5    63,300.0
Cumulative                            6,430.3   24,253.7   43,610.5   56,912.5   63,300.0
Local Costs
A. PrimaryandAAmbulatoryCareRefoi       160.5    1,400.3     1,602.5    1,602.5      903.0      5,668.8
B. HospitalCareReform                              306.3    3,371.5    3,187.7    2,690.2      9,555.7
C. HealthFinancingReformlNHIF           840.3    2,082.1    2,321.1     1,606.6    1,452.9     8,303.0
D. Capacity Building                     14.7       52.5       35.0        35.0                  137.2
otal PROJECT COSTS                      1,015.4    3,841.2    7,330.1    6,431.8    5,046.1    23,664.6
Cumulative                            1,015.4    4,856.6   12,186.7   18,618.5   23,664.6
- 48 -



Project Costs by Calendar Year
Totals Incl. Contingencies
(USS'000)
2000       2001        2002       2003        2004       2005        Total
TOTAL ALL FUNDING SOURCES
A. Primary and Ambulatory Care R       110.0    4,353.8    6,328.3    6,504.8    4,459.5        1,491.8   23,248.0
B. HospitalCareReform                  110.0    2,701.0    9,145.0    8,232.8    6,395.9          27.5   26,612.2
C. Health Financing Reform/NHIF                  7,744.7    8,345.5     5,456.7    2,383.5       81.1.3   24,741.6
D. CapacityBuilding                   1,190.2    3,419.1     3,360.5    2,617.0    1,284.3       491.7   12,362.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                      1,410.2   18,218.5   27,179.3   22,811.3   14,523.1      2,822.2   86,964.6
Cumulative                            1,410.2   19,628.7   46,808.0   69,619.3   84,142.4   86,964.6
IBRD Costs
A. Primary and Ambulatory Care R       110.0    3,534.4    4,8681       4,902.3    3,165.5       999.0   17,579.3
B. Hospital Care Reform                110.0    2,394.7    5,773.5    5,045.1    3,705.8          27.5   17,056.5
C. Health Financing Reforn/NHIF                  5,863.4    6,143.9    3,492.9       853.7        84.8   16,438.6
D. Capacity Building                  1,175.6    3,419.1     3,308.0    2,582.0    1,249.3       491.7   12,225.7
Fotal PROJECT COSTS                     1,395.6   15,211.5   20,093.5   16,022.2    8,974.2       1,603.0   63,300.0
Cumulative                           1,395.6   16,607.1   36,700.6   52,722.8   61,697.0   63,300.0
Local Costs
A. PrimaryandAmbulatoryCarelB                      819.4    1,460.1     1,602.5    1,294.0       492.8    5,668.8
B. Hospital Care Reform                            306.3    3,371.5    3,1877       2,690.2                9,555.7
C. Health Financing Reform/NHIF                  1,881.3    2,201.6     1,963.9    1,529.7       726.5    8,303.0
D. Capacity Building                    14.7                   52.5        35.0       35.0                   137.2
otal PROJECT COSTS                        14.7    3,007.0    7,085.7    6,789.1    5,548.9    1,219.2   23,664.6
Cumulative                              14.7    3,021.7   10,107.4   16,896.5   22,445.4   23,664.6
Because of the scheduling of project activities, the Government contribution to the project is US$ 14,700 in
CYOO. In subsequent years it is US$3.0 million in CYOI, US$7.1 million in CY02, US$6.8 million in
CY03, US$5.5 million in FY04, and US$1.2 million in CY05. The Government contribution to the Bank
project is 19.2 percent of the total project cost, net of taxes, and consists of the following key elements:
Software Licenses and Communications                                                     $ 5.45  million
Labor Adjustment Programs                                                                 $9.60 million
Subtotal                                                                      $15.05  million
Taxes                                                                                   $  8.61  million
Total                                                                         $23.66 million
A  Government contribution of US$28 million was made in CY99, as part of the Framework Program
activities, which needed to be initiated prior to Bank financing. The Government contribution, net of taxes,
represents 38.9 percent of the total cost of the overall Framework Program (net of taxes).
- 49 -



I
0
LO)



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BULGARIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement methods (Tables A, Al and Bl):
Civil works and goods under the Bank financed components of this project will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit published in
January 1995 including all revisions up to January 1999. Contracts for Consulting Services required for
the Project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January
1999. Project activities not financed by Bank will be procured in accordance with the national regulations.
The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods, are summarized in Table A. Other
procurement information, including estimated dates for publication of SPN and the Bank's review process
is presented in Table B1.
Implementation: A Capacity Assessment has been done for the Project, and the risk rating is high.
A Project Management Consultant will be recruited for the entire life of the project to support the Project
Management Unit. A Procurement Consultant will also be recruited for the first three years of the project
to assist the PMU in procurement activities.
Advertisement: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in June 2000 issue of
Development Business, announcing works, goods and consultant services to be procured and inviting
interested eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to express interest and to request any
complementary information from the PMU. The GPN will be annually updated. The Specific Procurement
Notices will be published at later dates (see Table B 1). For large-value consultants contracts, invitation for
bids will be advertised in the Development Business and national gazette. In the case of NCB for civil
works, invitation for bids will be advertised in a major local newspaper.
1. Civil Works
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for the Health Reform Investment
Fund under the Hospital Care Reform component. There will be 10 separate packages with approximately
$150,000 for each contract, up to an aggregate contract amount of $1.50 million. Bids will be advertised
in the national press and/or official gazette, opened publicly, and awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder.
Bank's Regional SBDs and Evaluation forms will be used. Government entities are ineligible to participate
in Bank financed contracts unless they meet the criteria under the Bank guidelines that they are legally and
financially autonomous.
Minor works (MW) procedures will be used for the Health Reform Investment Fund under the
Primary & Ambulatory Care Reform component. There will be approximately 560 small contracts with
about $500 for each contract, up to an aggregate contract amount of $0.28 million. Minor works
procedures will be used for about 70 smaller contracts with an aggregate amount of $500,000 under the
Health Reform Investment Fund from the Hospital Care Reform component. Minor works procedures will
also be used for the renovation of PMU office with an estimated contract value of $20,000. Minor works
will be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors in response to a
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
-51 -



specifications, the required completion date, a form of agreement acceptable to the Bank and the relevant
drawings. The contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder.
2. Goods
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for contracts above $100,000
equivalent for a total amount of $6.96 million for the procurement of workstation and standard software.
ICB will be used for a total amount of $1.26 million for the procurement of practice and application
software and practice software licensing/training. The procurement of file servers and workstation and
standard software for a total amount of $6.04 million will also use ICB procedures.  Specialized
application and hospital system licensing/training contracts above $100,000 equivalent with the total
amount of $1.18 million will use ICB procedures. The procurement for communications technologies will
use ICB procedures for a total amount of $317,500. Similarly, the main technology plant for the Disaster
Center (i.e. back up servers and related computing equipment) will be procured through ICB for a total
amount of $1.7 million. Workstations and standard software and advanced workstations will be procured
using ICB procedures for contracts above $100,000 for a total amount of $2.21 million. ICB procedures
will be used for contracts above $100,000 for a total amnount of $1.34 million for the procurement of
communications network. Document management work flow will use ICB procedure for procurement for
contracts above $100,000 for a total amount of $1.31 million. Software engineering tools and core
operational software will be procured through ICB for a total amount of $6.55 million. ICB procedure will
be used for the procurement of business management software and analytic and modeling tools for a total
amount of $1.02 million.
ICB procedures will also be used for the procurement of medical equipment for contracts above
$100,000 equivalent for a total amount of $6.9 million. A total of $1.7 million of medical equipment in 10
separate packages will be procured through ICB for contracts above $100,000 equivalent for Health
Reform Investment Fund under Primary and Ambulatory Care Reform component. Under the Health
Reform Investment Fund for Hospital Care Reform component, ICB will be used for contracts above
$100,000 equivalent for 10 separate packages of medical equipment with a. total value of $5.2 million.
Backup power supply for a total amount of $280,000 will be procured using ICB procedures under the
Health Financing/NHIF component. For the Capacity Building component, there will be $770,000 of staff
training equipment/multimedia center to be procured through ICB.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). NCB procedure will be used for the three separate
procurement of media campaign under Primary and Ambulatory Care Reform component (estimated
contact to be $550,000), the Hospital Care Reform component (estimated value to be $550,000), and the
Capacity Building component (estimated contract value to be $790,000).
International Shopping (IS). There will be about 20 different packages of equipment for a total
amount of $0.52 million for international shopping for the Health Reform Investment Fund under Primary
and Ambulatory Care Reform component. Under the Health Reform Investment Fund from Hospital Care
Reform component, there will be 20 separate packages of medical equipment to be procured through
international shopping with the total amount of $0.50 million.
National Shopping (NS). Approximately 20 separate packages of equipment for a total amount of
$300,000 will be procured through national shopping under the Health Reform Investment Fund from
Primary and Ambulatory Care Reform component. Under the Health Reform Investment Fund of Hospital
Care Reform component, 20 different packages with a total of $300,000 of medical equipment will be
procured using national shopping. National shopping method will also be used for the procurement of
- 52 -



vehicles with the aggregate amount of $50,000, and office equipment for PMU with the total amount of
$20,000.
Procurement from UN agency. Medical equipment for Primary and Ambulatory Care Refonn
component will be procured from UNICEF catalogues for available stock items. The estimated amount
will be $1.5 million.
Direct Contracting (DC). Upgrade/expand operations and back up servers hardware and software
will be procured using direct contracting procedures for a total amount of $2.75 million. The NHIF has
already installed a pair of servers to support its operational system. The decision was taken to use
competitive procurement method (ICB) to acquire server for the backup/disaster recovery (which the
incumbent supplier will not be excluded). The upgrades to NHIF's existing production server are
proprietary technologies, and as such, these will be directly procured from the manufacture Compac/Digital
(and through the manufacture's distribution chain, in accordance with the manufacture's intemal business
practices). In relation to the disaster-recovery server, the initial purchase will be ICB. However, the
subsequent capacity upgrade (in concert with the upgrade of the production server) will similarly entail
proprietary technologies and necessitate direct procurement from the manufacturer. If Compac/Digital
wins the ICB for the disaster-recovery server, then the direct contracting for the upgrades would be handled
as a single procurement. If a vendor other than Compaq/Digital wins the ICB, there will need to be two
direct contract procurements.
3. Consulting Services and Training
Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS). For the Primary & Ambulatory Care Reform
component, consultants will be selected using QCBS methods for GP management training/curriculum
development (contract value $550,000). Under the Hospital Care Reform component, QCBS will be used
for the selection of consultants for hospital management training/curriculum development (contract value
$190,000). Under the Health Care Financing/NHIF component, the consultant for specialized IT training
will be selected using QCBS. The total estimated value of the contract is about $1.54 million. The
consultant for core operational system modification and enhancement will be selected through QCBS with
the total contract value of $600,000. Under the Capacity Building component, QCBS will be used for
separate packages for a total amount of $5.18 million for the purpose of technical assistance. Under the
same component, the contracts that will be selected using QCBS are: the production of publications
(estimated amount of $350,000), video/film production (estimated contract value $230,000), information
standards (estimated amount of $540,000), quality of care/accreditation (estimated value $130,000).
Project Management Consultant (estimated amount of $226,000), Procurement Consultant (estimated
amount of $180,000), and GP management training/delivery of training (estimated value of $280,000) will
be contracted using QCBS.
Consultants' Qualification (CQ) For Capacity Building component, the contracts to use CQ
method are: consultant for public opining polling (estimated amount of $60,000) and Project Auditors
(estimated value of $80,000).
Individual Consultants (IC). Under the Hospital Care Reform component, IC method will be used
for the selection of technical assistance on legislative review (contract value $70,000). Under the Capacity
Building component, individual consultant method will be used for the selection of local consultants for
health information standards (contract value $53,000), local consultants for quality of care/accreditation
(contract value $80,000) and monitoring and evaluation (six separate contracts with the total value of
$220,000).
- 53 -



4. Operating Costs
In the case of health infortnation standards and quality of care/accreditation, local staff will be
selected based on quality (Individual Consultant) to conduct the work. Bank will finance the cost of hiring
these staff using operating cost (total value estimated to be $610,000). The Project Management Unit staff
salaries will be financed under the operating cost of the Loan.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00           1.50           0.82           0.00           2.32
(0.00)         (1.27)         (0.70)         (0.00)         (1.97)
2. Goods                           43.69           0.00           5.93           0.00          49.62
(36.41)        (0.00)         (4.95)         (0.00)         (41.36)
3. Services                         0.00            1.89          15.88          0.00           17.77
(0.00)         (1.89)        (15.88)         (0.00)        (17.77)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00           0.00           0.00           9.60           9.60
Severance Payments
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00           0.00           0.63           0.00           0.63
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.63)         (0.00)         (0.63)
6. Operating Costs                  0.00           0.00           1.57           5.45           7.02
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.57)         (0.00)         (1.57)
Total                           43.69           3.39           24.83          15.05          86.96
(36.41)        (3.16)         (23.73)        (0.00)         (63.30)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services.
- 54 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                    Selection   Method,,
-:Services     .   . .  .  -.      .      -  ....    .     ......    -  --.- . .  : .   ^:-,     - 
Expenditure    OQCBS       QBS-   SFB            LCS       . CQ.      Other.    N.B.F.   Total Cost
Category   - - ___...   _____-_   _          _ ..      .   
A. Firms            10.50      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.14      4.34       0.00       14.98
(10.50)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.14)     (4.34)     (0.00)    (14.98)
B. Individuals      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.90      0.00       0.00       0.90
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.90)     (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.90)
Total   10.50     0.00       0.00       0.00       1.04      4.34       0.00      15.88
(10.50)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (1.04)     (4.34)     (0.00)    (15.88)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
.CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 55 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Procurement of civil works, goods and services for the project will be carried out in accordance
with the agreed procurement plan (Table B 1), which will be updated if necessary and included in the
progress reports for Bank review.
1) Civil Works: The first two contracts per year under NCB and Minor Works will be prior
reviewed. The region's updated standard bidding documents for NCB and Minor Works will be used for
civil works contracts.
2) Goods: Prior review of bidding documents, including review of evaluation, recommendation of
award and contract will be conducted for all ICB, and the first two contracts for International Shopping
and National Shopping contracts each year regardless of their value.
3) Consulting Services and Training: Terms of reference for all consulting assignments will be
subject to prior Bank review. Prior review will be carried out for individual consultant contracts of
$30,000 and above and for contracts with firms valued at $50,000 and above. The prior reviews by the
Bank will include request for proposal (RFP), short lists, terms of condition of contracts as well as
evaluation reports and recommendation for award of contracts for technical assistance as well as for
training.  All documents and recommendations involving sole source contracting will be subject to Bank
prior review.
Following award of contracts, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions
of a contract resulting in an increase or decrease above 15 percent of the original amount, the Bank will
reserve the right to prior review of such modifications (including modifications to contracts for consulting
services).
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
.    J  z .       hreC ol_               Procurement              ProrReiiw0
1. Works                    Below $200,000               NCB              First two contracts each
Aggregate $1.50m.                                       year
Below $50,000                MW               First two contracts each
Aggregate $0.8m.                                       year
-56 -



2. Goods                   Above $100,000               ICB             All bidding documents and
Aggregate $43.55m.                                   contracts
Above $100,000              NCB             All bidding documents and
Aggregate $1.89m.                                   contracts
Less than $100,000             IS             First two contracts each
Aggregate $1.02m.                                     year
Below $50,000                NS              First two contracts each
Aggregate $0.67m.                                     year
Aggregate $1.5m.           UNICEF                 All documents
Aggregate $2.75m.       Direct Contracting        All documents
3. Services                 Above $50,000               QCBS                   All steps
Aggregate $10.36m.
Below $100,000               CQ                    All steps
Aggregate $0.14m.                             TOR, Qualification and
Evaluations
Individual Consultants          IC                    All Steps
Aggregate $0.90m.                             TOR, Qualification and
Evaluations
4. Ex-post Review                                                         Review carried out in
accordance with Para.4 of
Appendix I of the Bank's
Guidelines and reviews
during supervision
_________________________    missions. 1 in  5  contracts.
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    $53.91 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement Plan (Table Bi)
- 57 -



Description    Type  Proc.  Proposed   Est.  Invitation   Bid      Bid/RFP   Contract Contract
Method  Num. of   Total  GPN/SPN  Docs/RFP  1. Opening  Signing  complete
Packages   Cost    Local        1.        2.
(US$  Advertise- Preparation Evaluation
million)   ment       2.      3. Recom.
Documents For Award
WORKS                          _
Primary and     CW    MW        560        0.28           Through-out
Ambulatory Care/                                         the life of
Health Reform                                            the project
Investment Fund
Hospital Care /    CW    MW      70        0.50           Through-out
Health Reform                                            the life of
Investment Fund                                           the project
Hospital Care   CW    NCB        10        1.50   First  1. 8/2000   1. 10/2000  10/2000  6/2001
Health Reform                                   Package: 2. 9/2000   2. 10/2000
Investment Fund                                 Local 9/00           3. 10/2000
Other
subsequent
packages
will be
carried out
througout
the life of
the proiect.
PCU Office      CW    MW          1        0.02           1. 8/2000   1. 10/2000  10/2000  11/2000
Renovation                                                2. 9/2000   2. 10/2000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___3. 10/2000
- 58 -



GOODS
Computer Equipment and Software
1. Physician Office Information Svstems
Workstation and    G   ICB       1         2.34   SPN    1. 9/2000   1. 12/2000  2/2001   5/2001
Standard                                         8/2000  2. 10/2000  2. 1/2001
Software                                                            3. 1/2001
Workstation and    G   ICB       1         2.32   SPN    1. 3/2002   1. 6/2002   8/2002   11/2002
Standard                                         2/2002  2. 4/2002   2. 7/2002
Software                                                            3. 7/2002
Workstation and    G   ICB       1         2.32   SPN    1. 8/2004   1. 11/2004  1/2005   4/2005
Standard                                         7/2004  2. 9/2004   2. 12/2004
Software                                                            3. 12/2004
Practice and     G     ICB       1         1.26   SPN    1. 9/2000   1. 12/2000  2/2001   6/2005
Application                                      8/2000  2. 10/2000  2. 1/2001
Software &                                                          3. 1/2001
Practice Software
Licensing and
Training
2. Hospital Manag ement Information Systems
File Servers &   G     ICB       1         3.02   SPN    1. 4/2001   1. 7/2001   9/2001   12/2003
Workstations and                                 3/2001  2. 5/2001   2. 8/2001
Standard                                                            3. 8/2001
Software (1)   _
File Servers &   G     ICB       1         3.02   SPN    1. 4/2002   1. 7/2002   9/2002   12/2004
Workstations and                                 3/2002  2. 5/2002   2. 8/2002
Standard                                                            3. 8/2002
Software (2)        1                          _
Specialized      G     ICB       1         0.88   SPN    1.4/2001   1. 7/2001   9/2001   12/2003
Application                                      3/2001  2. 5/2001  2. 8/2001
Software &                                                          3. 8/2001
Hospital System
Licensing/
TrainiDn (- 1 )
Specialized      G     ICB       1         0.30   SPN    1. 4/2002   1. 7/2002   9/2002   12/2004
Application                                      3/2002  2. 5/2002   2. 8/2002
Software &                                                          3. 8/2002
Hospital System
Licensing/
Training (2)    |_____I
Communica-tions   G    ICB       1         0.32   SPN    1. 4/2001   1. 7/2001   9/2001   12/2004
3/2001  2. 5/2001   2. 8/2001
_____________   ________ l_______ _______           _ 13. 8/2001
59 -



3. NHIF Information Ssemst
Disaster Backup    G   ICB        1        1.70   SPN    1. 9/2000   1. 12/2000  2/2001   5/2001
Center                                           8/2000  2. 10/2000  2. 1/2001
3. 1/2001
Upgrade/Expand   G    Direct      1        2.75   N/A        N/A        N/A    12/2001  3/2002
Servers                Con-
tracting_
Standard         G     ICB       1         0.33   SPN    1. 9/2000   1. 12/2000  2/2001   12/2001
Workstations and                                 8/2000  2. 10/2000  2. 1/2001
Standard                                                             3. 1/2001
Software &
Advance
Wnrkstations
Standard         G     ICB        1        0.94   SPN    1. 9/2001   1. 12/2001  2/2002   6/2003
Workstations and                                 8/2001  2. 10/2001  2. 1/2001
Standard                                                            3. 1/2001
Software &
Advance
W orkstations                  ____     ____     _________
Standard         G     ICB        1        0.94   SPN    1. 9/2002   1. 12/2002  02/2003  12/2004
Workstations and                                 8/2002  2. 10/2002  2. 1/2003
Standard                                                            3. 1/2003
Software &
Advance
Workstations                                                                :
Comm. Network    G     ICB        1        0.51   SPN    1. 9/2000   1. 12/2000  2/2001   12/2003
Servers/PBX/                                     8/2000  2. 10/2000  2. 1/2001
Routers          _                                                   3. 1/2001
Comm. Network    G     ICB        1        0.83   SPN    1. 9/2001   1. 12/2001  2/2002   2/2005
ATM Switch/                                      8/2001  2. 10/2001  2. 1/2002
Routers          _                                                   3. 1/2002
Document         G     ICB        1        0.66   SPN    1. 5/2002   1. 8/2002   10/2002  6/2003
Management/                                      4/2002  2. 6/2002   2. 9/2002
Workflow                                                             3. 9/2002
Document         G     ICB        1        0.66   SPN    1. 11/2003  1. 2/2004   4/2004   12/2004
Management/                                      10/2003  2. 12/2003  2. 3/2004
Workflow                                                            13. 3/2004
Software         G     Two       1         6.55   SPN    1. 9/2000   1. 12/2000  2/2001   8/2004
Engineering            Stage                     8/2000  2. 10/2000  2. 1/2001
Tools & Core           ICB                                           3. 4/2001
Operational
Software_
Business         G     ICB        1        1.03   SPN    1. 9/2000   1. 12/2000  5/2001   8/2002
management                                       8/2000  2. 10/2000  2. 1/2001
Software
Database         G    NBF                  3.85
Licences
Comm. Charges    G    NBF                  1.60
- 60 -



MedicalEquipment
1. Primary and Anbulato  Care Reform                                    .
Medical          G      ICB       1         3.04 SPN 9/00 1. 9/2000   1. 12/2000  2/2001   12/2002
Equipment                                                 2. 10/2000  2. 1/2001
.____  ________  _______  _____3.1/2001
Medical          G      ICB       1         2.66 SPN 3/02 1. 3/2002   1. 6/2002   8/2002   12/2003
Equipment                                                 2. 4/2002   2. 7/2002
_ _____           _______  ________            3. 7/2002
Medical          G   UNICEF       1         1.50              N/A        N/A    12/2000  12/2003
Equipment        _                                                                 .
Equipment for    G      NS       20         0.30          Through-out
Health Reform                                             the life of
Investment Fund                                           the project
Equipment for    G       IS      10         0.52           Through-out
Health Reform                                             the life of
Investment Fund                                           the project
Equipment for    G      ICB   10 (every     1.70   First   1. 9/2000   1. 12/2000  2/2001    Jun-01
Health Reform                  6 months          package: 2. 10/2000 2. 1/2001
Investment Fund                based on            SPN                3. 1/2001
proposals          8/2000
Other
subsequent
packages
will be
carried out
throughout
the life of
the proiect.
- 61 -



2. Hospital Care Reform
Equipment for    G      NS      20         0.30          Through-out
Health Reform                                           the life of
Investment Fund                                          the project
Equipment for    G      IS      10         0.50          Through-out
Health Reform                                           the life of
Investment Fund                                          the project
Equipment for    G     ICB   10 (every     5.20   First  1. 5/2001   1. 8/2001   10/2001    Dec-01
Health Reform                 6 months          package: 2. 6/2001   2. 9/2001
Investment Fund               based on            SPN               3. 9/2001
proposals          4/2001
Other
subsequent
packages
will be
carried out
throughout
the life of
the proiect.
3. Capacity Building         -
PCU Office       G     NS        1         0.02          1. 7/2000   1. 8/2000   9/2000   11/2000
Equipment                                                2. 7/2000   2. 8/2000
3. 8/2000
Backup Power     G     ICB       1         0.28   SPN    1. 9/2000   1. 12/2000  2/2001   5/2001
Supply                                           8/2000  2. 10/2000  2. 1/2001
3. 1/2001
Staff Training   G     ICB       1        0.74   SPN    1. 9/2001  1. 12/2001  3/2002   8/2002
Equipment/                                       8/2001  2. 10/2001  2. 2/2002
Multimedia                                                          3. 2/2002
Center                                                   .
Vehicles         G     NS        1         0.05   Local  1. 8/2000   1. 10/2000  10/2000  11/2000
7/2000  2. 9/2000   2. 10/2000
____________ _  .______  ______  ________            3.  10/2000  1     1
- 62 -



CONSULTING SERVICES AND TRAINING
1. Primary and Ambulator Care Reformr
GP Management   CS   QCBS         1        0.55           1. 9/2000  1. 11/2000  1/2001   4/2001
Training/                                                 2. 10/2000  2. 12/2000
Curriculum                                                           3. 12/2000
Develonment
GP Management   CS   QCBS         I        0.28           1. 2/2001   1. 4/2001   6/2001   6/2004
Trainiing/                                                2. 3/2001  .2. 5/2001
Delivery of                                                          3. 5/2001
Trainin2          .
GP Management   CS                1        0.55           1. 2/2001   1. 4/2001   6/2001   6/2004
Training                                                  2. 3/2001   2. 5/2001
_____________  _______              _3. 5/2001
Health Promotion  CS     a-       1        0.11           Through-out
Training for GP                                           the life of
the project
Health Promotion  CS     *        1        0.17           Through-out
Training for                                              the life of
Nurses                                                    the project
Primary and    Techni NCB         1        0.55           1. 8/2000  1. 10/2000  11/2000  6/2005
Ambulatory Care  cal                                      2. 9/2000  2. 10/2000
Reform Public   Servic                                               3. 10/2000
Information      es
2. Hospital Care Reform
Hospital         CS   QCBS                 0.19           1. 8/2001   1. 10/2001  1/2002   1/1900
Management                                                2. 9/2001   2. 12/2001
Training/                                                            3. 12/2001
Curriculum
Develo ment
Hospital Care    Techni NCB       1        0.55           1. 9/2000  1. 12/2000  2/2001   6/2005
Reform Public    cal                                      2. 10/2000 2. 1/2001
Information    Servic                                                3. 1/2001
es                                                _
Case mix/DRG     CS      *        1        0.83           Through-out
Training                                                  the life of
the project
- 63 -



Hospital         CS               1         0.17          Through-out
Accountants                                               the life of
Training                                                  the project
Hospital System    CS             1         2.31          Through-out
Administrators                                            the life of
Training                                                  the project
3. Capacity Buildi
Specialized IT   CS   QCBS        1         1.54          1. 8/2000   1. 10/2000  11/2000  3/2002
Training                                                  2. 9/2000   2. 11/2003
3. 11/2003
Core Operational  CS   QCBS       1         0.60          1. 4/2003   1. 6/2003   9/2003   12/2003
Software                                                  2. 5/2003   2. 8/2003
_3. 8/2003  I       I
TA Legislative   CS     IC        1         0.07           1. 8/2000   1. 11/2000  1/2001   6/2201
Review                                                    2. 9/2000   2. 12/2000
________                    __________   3. 12/2000
TA - Information   CS   QCBS      1         1.40           1. 8/2000   1. 2/2001  3/2001   6/2005
Systems                                                   2. 9/2000   2. 2/2001
Management                                                3. 12/2000
TA - Financial    CS   QCBS       1         0.40           1. 8/2000   1. 2/2001  3/2001   6/2005
Management                                                2. 9/2000   2. 2/2001
_______                    ~~~~ ~~~3. 12/2000   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
TA - Dynamic     CS   QCBS        1         0.40           1 8/2000   1. 2/2001  3/2001   6/2005
Modelling                                                 2. 9/2000   2. 2/2001
________                  -  3. 12/2000
TA - Contracting   CS   QCBS      I       . 0.85           1. 8/2000   1. 2/2001  3/2001   6/2005
Quality                                                   2. 9/2000   2. 2/2001
Assurance                                                 3. 12/2000
TA - Labor       CS   QCBS        1         0.30           1. 8/2000   1. 2/2001  3/2001   6/2004
Adjustment                                                2. 9/2000   2. 2/2001
Strategv              _        ________13. 12/2000                    _                    _    _
TA - Investment   CS   QCBS       1         0.40           1. 8/2000   1. 2/2001  3/2001   6/2004
Fund                                                      2. 9/2000   2. 2/2001
gDevelopment   I       I       I_ L_1_13. 12/2000
TA - Training    CS   QCBS        1         1.45           1. 8/2000   1. 2/2001  3/2001   6/2003
Program                                                   2. 9/2000   2. 2/2001
EDevelopment   |       |_____                             3. 12/2000  _                   _ _    I
Public Opinion   CS    CQ         1         0.06           1. 9/2000   1. 10/2000  1/2001   6/2005
Polling                                                   2. 10/2000  2. 12/2000
_______                   _________  __________  3.  12/2000        _     _
Media Campaign Techni NCB         1         0.79           1. 8/2000   1. 12/2000  3/2001   6/2005
cal                                      2. 9/2000   2. 2/2001
Servic                                                3. 2/2001
es
-64 -



Production of    CS   QCBS         1         0.35           1. 1/2000   1. 4/2001  6/2001    6/2005
Publications                                                2. 2/2001   2. 5/2001
3. 5/2001
Staff Training   CS       *        1         0.07           Through-out
the life of
the project
Journalists      CS                1         0.07           Through-out
Training                                                    the life of
the project
Videofilm         CS   QCBS        1         0.23            1. 11/2000  1. 2/2001   6/2001   1/1900
Production                                                  2. 12/2000  2. 4/2001
______  _______   ____ _    ________   __3. 4/2001  I
International TA    CS   QCBS      1         0.88            1. 8/2000   1. 11/2000  1/2001   6/2203
- Health                                                    2. 9/2000   2. 12/2000
Information                                                             3. 12/2000
Standards
International TA-  CS   QCBS       1         0.13            1. 11/2000  1. 2/2001   7/2001   6/2004
Quality of Care/                                            2. 12/2000  2. 4/2001
Accreditation                                                           3. 5/2001
Local TA- Health  CS     IC     Various      0.53            1. 8/2000   1. 11/2000  1/2001   6/2003
Information                      small                      2. 9/2000   2. 12/2000
Standards                       contracts                               3. 12/2000
Local TA-        CS      IC     Various   - 0.08             1. 8/2001   1 11/2001  1/2002   6/2004
Quality of Care                  small                      2. 9/2001   2. 12/2001
/Accreditation                  contracts                               3. 12/2001
Study Tour       CS       *        1         0.70            12/2000
Project          CS   QCBS         1         0.23            1. 8/2000   1 10/2000  11/2000  6/2005
Management                                                  2. 9/2000   2. 10/2000
Consultant                                                             13. 10/2000 I         I
Procurement       CS   QCBS        1         0.18            1. 8/2000   1. 10/2000  11/2000  6/2003
Consultant                                                  2. 9/2000   2. 10/2000
______________         _______           _______                        3.   10/2000
Project Audits   CS      CQ        1         0.08            1. 8/2000   1. 10/2000  11/2000  6/2005
2. 9/2000   2. 10/2000
_______  l_______ l________   3.  10/2000          I         L        I
Monitoring and    CS     IC   |   6          0.22            1. 11/2000  1. 2/2001   7/2001   6/2005
Evaluation                                                  2. 12/2000  2. 4/2000
l_____________  l__l____                 3.  5/2000  1  _              l
* Training will be concluded by selected institutions where staff will be sent for a specific training
course/period. The Bank will review and clear the list of participants (along with their qualifications for
selection of training courses), estimated cost, place of training, period of training, etc. on a six monthly
basis.
- 65 -



'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 66 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
:Expenditure Category        Amount in US$mill.on         Financing-Percentage
1 Civil Works                              1.80                         95%
(a) Under Part A (2)
(b) Under Part B (1) and D              0.22                         95%
2 Goods                                    1.90                 100% foreign, 85% local
(a) Under Part A(2)
(b) Under Part B(1)                     4.60                100% foreign, 85% local
(c) Under Part A(1)                     6.00                100% foreign, 85% local
(d) All Other                          26.50                100% foreign, 85%io local
3 Consultant Services and Audit Fees       7.07                         100%
4 Training                                 7.00                         100%
5 Technical Services                       1.93                         100%
6 Incremental Operating Costs              1.50            90% until December 31, 2002, 80%
thereafter
7 Unallocated                              4.15
Total Project Costs                       62.67
Front-end fee         0.63
Total                                     63.30
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
While acceptable disbursement mechanism based on PMRs is not in place, disbursements will take place
using the traditional disbursement mechanism. All disbursements against contracts for civil works and
goods costing US$200,000 or more equivalent, services for consulting firms costing US$50,000 or more
and individual consultants costing US$30,000 or more, as well as audit fees, training and incremental
operating costs will be fully documented. Disbursements below these thresholds will be made against
certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). This documentation will be made available for the required
audit as well as to the Bank supervision mission, and will be retained by the PMU for at least one year after
receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. The
processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the Loan and Borrower
counterpart financing would be managed by the PMU in coordination and consultation with the Ministry of
Finance.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a separate Special Account denominated in US dollars to be
managed by the PMU. The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be US$ 1.0 million.
However, during the initial stage of the project, an amount limited to US$0.5 million will be deposited in
-67 -



the Special Account. When the aggregate amount of disbursement realizes US$5.0 million, the amount
deposited in the Special Account will be increased to the full authorized allocation of US$1.0 million. The
minimum amount of each application should be 20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment
applications should be submitted by the PMU on a monthly basis or when about 33 percent of the initial
deposit has been utilized, whichever comes first. The Special Account would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
- 68 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BULGARIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12                            6
First Bank mission (identification)              11/27/99                      11/27/99
Appraisal mission departure                      05/01/2000                    04/30/2000
Negotiations                                     05/26/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/30/2000
Prepared by:
Bulgarian Ministry of Health (MOH) and National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) working groups
Preparation assistance:
Boyan Doganov, Project Director, NHIF
Denitsa Sacheva, Chief of Staff, MOH
Dusan Ecimovic, Project Management Consultant
Alberto Neyra, Project Preparation Consultant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Dominic Haazen                    Team Leader, ECSHD
Financial Management Specialist
Laura Shrestha                    Operations Officer, ECSHD
Peter Pojarski                    Operations Analyst, ECSHD
Jan Bultman                       Principal Health Specialist, ECSHD
Hong Chen                         Operations Analyst, ECSHD
Leonardo Concepcion                Procurement Specialist, ECSHD
Antoniya Viyachka                  Procurement Analyst, ECSHD
Craig Neal                        Information Technology Specialist, ECSPE
John Langenbrunner                 Senior Economist (Health), HDNHE (peer reviewer)
Armin Fidler                       Senior Health Specialist, ECSHD (peer reviewer)
Jean J. De St Antoine             Principal Operations Officer, ECSHD (peer reviewer)
Gerald La Forgia                  Health Specialist (LCSHH) (peer reviewer)
Nadejda Mochinova                  Program Assistant
Maureen Law                        QER Panel Chair, EASHD
Christopher Walker                 QER Panel Member, HDNHE
loan Luculescu                    QER Panel Member, AFTH2
Forest Duncan                     QER Panel Member, USAID
Rohit Mehta                        Senior Disbursement Officer, LOAEL
Alessandra Iorio                   Senior Counsel, LEGEC
- 69 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project Fiie*
BULGARIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Country Assistance Strategy, April 1998
2. Identification Mission BTOR
3. Preparation Mission BTOR
4. Pre-appraisal Mission BTOR
5. Appraisal Mission BTOR
C. Other
1. Final Report for Health Sector Reform Support Project, Australian Health Insurance Commission,
November 1999.
2. Health Care Systems in Transitions, Bulgaria, European Observatory on Health Care System, 1999.
3. European Standards in Health Sector, Bulgaria Health Insurance Fund, 2000.
4. National Human Development Report, UNDP, Bulgaria 1999.
Volume 1: Trends and opportunities for regional human development.
Volume 2: Bulgarian People's Aspirations.
5. Bulgaria: Consultations with the Poor, prepared for Global Synthesis Workshop, September 22-23,
1999, PREM, WB.
6. Information Technology Background Paper
*Including electronic files
- 70 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BULGARIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borower                        Purpose                                      IBRO      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Revd
P008316       1993 Bulgaria                   ENERGY                                            93.00       0.00       0.00      24.37     25.67       0.00
P033965       1998 Bulgaria                   ENV. REMED. PILOT                                 16.00       000        0.00      15.56     10.85       0.33
P057927       2000 Bulgaria                   ENVIPRIV. SUPPORT SAL                             50.00       0.00       0.00     49.50       0.00       0.00
P008318       1996 Bulgaria                   HEALTH SECTOR RESTRUCTURING                       26.00       0.00       0.00      14.47     16.36       000
P008315       1996 Bulgaria                   RAILWAY REHABILITATI                              95.00       0.00       0.00      17.17     20.83       0.00
P055156       1999 Bulgaria                   REG. INITIATIVE FUND                               5.00       0.00       0.00       1A.      -0.34       0.00
P008323       1997 Bulgaria                   SOCIAL INSUR. ADMIN.                              24.30       0.00       0.00      10.35      8.25       0.00
P051151       1999 Bulgaria                   SPAL (Soc. Protect Adj.)                          80.00       0.00       0.00      36.52     36.61       0.00
P008319       1994 Bugaria                    WATER COMPANIES REST                              98.00       0.00      41.00      34.77     61.82      25.71
Total:     487.30        0.00       41.00      204.19    180.05      26.04
- 71 -



BULGARIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
lFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
0                  BAC Bank                       0.00    0;00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Celhart                        0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.65    0.00
1999               Devnya Cement                 13.90    1.50    0.00    0.00   13.90    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998               Euromerchant FND              29.16    0.00    0.00    0.00   22.58    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Interlease Inc.                0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00
1996               Sofia Hilton                  3.21    0.30    0.00    0.00    1.71    0.30    0.00    0.00
1997                                             10.80    0.00    2.00    9.50    3.27    0.00    2.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       57.07    6.80    7.00    9.50   41.46    6.30    4.65    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 72 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BULGARIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
- 73 -



Europo&    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middle-
Bulgt.i     Asia  Income        Development diamond'
1998
Population. mid-year (millions)                        8.2      473        908                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1,230     2,190     1,710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      10.1     1,039     1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                        .0.6       0.1       1.1                                      Gross
Labor force (%)                                       -0.6       0.6       1.5     GNP                              Gross
per                   .        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992.98)                              capita         '.7           enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverly line)  36
Urban population (% of totfa population)               69         68        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       71         69        68
Infant mnortality (per 1, 000 live births)             18         23        38
Child malnutrition (%C of children under 5)             ..         ,         ,.               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  ..        ..        75
Illiteracy (% of population aqe 15+)                    2          4        14
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-.a.qe population)  99       100       103         " Bulgaria
Male                                                100        101      105               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               98        99        100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..    28.4       10.1      12.3
Gross domestc investment/GOP                          32,9      11.4      14.7                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                     40.8      61.9      45.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            31.1      16.9      13.7
Gross national savings/GDP                            30.3      15.7      129
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -2.5        4.2      -2.1     Dmestic         Xe                   n
Interest payments/GOP                          ,       1.4       4.3       3.7                                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..    29.1       97.2      80.8     Savings
Total debt service/exports                     1. 17.2          14,4      22.3
Present value of debVGDP                       ..       ..      92.2
Present value of debtexports                   ..       ..    143.6
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.6      4.0      -7.0       3.5       4.6           -Bulgaria
GNP per capita                      3.5      -3.0     -5.9       4.8       5.6         -    Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       6.2    .12.2       3.1     -15.6       3.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                    ..    11.8       23.8      18.7    so
Industry    .                                  ..    61.5       25.3      25.5     40
Manufacturing                                ..       ..       16.B      17.0    20
Services                                       ..    26.7       50.9      55.7      0
-20                                 9
Private consumption                            ..    61.5       70.3      71.2   -40
General government consumption                 .,      7.4      12.8      15.1                -GD1    -OOGDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..    42.6       56.4      46.3
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                  -2.5     -2.1      32.9       1.4    30
Industry                                     6.4      -6.2     -11.3       4.3    20
Manufacturng                                 ..       ..    -14.9        6.5    10
Services                                      3.8     -2.0     -19.3       4.0      o
Private consumption                           3.3    -4.9      -22.8      -4.7            93 's'   95   95    W"96
General govemment consumption                 8.6     -4.3      -1.4       4.0    .0
Gross domestic investment                     3.2     -7.7      33.1      44.3   .20
Imports of goods and services                6.1    -16.3       -2.7      -2.8             -     Exports    - -Imports
Gross national product                        3.7     -3.8      -6.6       4.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-grouD average. If data are missina, the diamond will
be incomplete.
74..                                               Bulgaria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Financial Management
General:
A review of Financial Management System was undertaken to (a) review the presence of the
necessary elements for sound project financial management system such as internal controls, project
accounting, project staffing and audit arrangements; (b) assess the project's capacity and readiness for the
implementation of LACI; and (c) prepare a time-bound action plan for strengthening the financial
management system to achieve compliance with minimum LACI standards.
Project Management and Coordination and Staffing:
The Project Management Unit (PMU) will be directly responsible for financial management during
project life. A Steering Committee will be established consisting of senior managers of the Ministry of
Health and the National Health Insurance Fund to provide overall policy guidance to the PMU.
The PMU has recruited a full time project accountant who has advanced level training in finance
and accounting, as well as experience with international projects finance. The project accountant would be
responsible for financial management and control under the project itself and would report to the Project
Director. Technical assistance is being made available to the PMU to assist in establishing the financial
management and control systems. To ensure the appropriate segregation of duties, a second accountant
will also be hired once the project becomes operational.
The overall operating budget for the PMU will be approximately $1,056,000 over the term of the
project, with a capital of $90,000, and an additional $75,000 allocated for project audits. Procurement and
Project Management technical assistance, and training for all staff is being provided to the PMU. These
allocations cover the entire period of project implementation.
Accounting:
A project financial and accounting system has been selected, which is consistent with the software
used in the first health project, as well as other PMU's in Bulgaria. The system as establishes has, inter
alia, an accounting and intemal control system with the capacity to record and retrieve in a timely manner,
all financial and procurement transactions under the project. The system: (a) records and reports all assets,
liabilities, and financial transactions and procurement activity of the project; and (b) provides reliable
financial information for managing and monitoring project activities.
The accounting system (chart of accounts) is classified by component and category of expenditure,
and is able to capture data by sub-component at the level of individual activities. It also reflects the various
sources of funds. Furthermore, the system provides information on the receipt and use of funds and is able
to produce financial reports comparing budget with actual expenditures at any given time. The system as
established will provide financial data to measure performance when linked to the outputs of the project.
Financial Reporting:
- 75 -



Although an acceptable financial management system has been established, disbursements will
start using traditional disbursements methods -- SOEs reimbursements, direct payments, etc. After the
PMU has gained experience with the financial management system and reporting under project
management reports (PMRs), and provided that the financial management system is reviewed and found
capable of handling it, the project will move to PMR-based disbursements (expected June 30, 2001). The
PMU will maintain accounts for the Project and will be responsible for preparing Project Management
Reports (PMR -- see Annex 9 of the Project Financial Management Manual) on a quarterly basis, and
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a PMR for such period,
which:
(a) (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for
the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the project for the
six-month period following the period covered by said report and (ii) shows separately expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit during the six-month period following the period
covered by said report;
(b) (i) describes physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period
covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast
implementation targets; and
(c) sets forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed
out of the proceeds of the credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Project Implementation Plan (PIP):
The Project Implementation Plan includes the financial management policy and procedures manual
developed during the course of establishing the financial management system.
This manual includes (a) special emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and
internal controls; (b) the role of the financial management systems in project management and
implementation; (c) the accounting arrangements required for project management, the format for and
content of project financial reporting; and (d) the auditing arrangements that will be used during project
implementation.
Auditing:
The PMU will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statement, Special Account, and SOEs
are audited by an independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with standards on auditing
that are acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit
report shall be in a format in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The audit report will include a separate opinion for SOEs
against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the Credit and SOEs which will
be included in the audit report accompanying the financial statements.
The audited financial statements of the special accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year,
including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified statement of
expenditures, will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
- 76 -



The audit of the financial statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting
and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe
custody of project-financed assets; (b) a determination as to whether the project implementing entities have
maintained adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; and (c) verification that expenditures
submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing, and identification of any ineligible expenditures.
The estimated overall budget for auditing under the project would be around $75,000, which
appears to be reasonable, given the size and length of the project (5 years). Auditing services would be
procured on a least-cost basis, and packaged as a recurring audit, with no requirement for a new
engagement letter, except in the special circumstances. The PMU will prepare terms of reference and a
short list for the audit and will obtain No Objection from the Bank, prior to Board presentation.
Bank FMS staffing and supervision:
The project was reviewed in detail by a Bank FMS during appraisal and a detailed action plan was
developed to ensure that an adequate financial management system is in place prior to Board presentation.
Because of the timing of the project preparation, it is recommended by the FMS that the project not use on
PMR-based disbursement at this time. A time-bound action plan will be developed to ensure a move to
PMR-based disbursement by June 30, 2001. During project life, an FMS will take part in supervision
missions to monitor the FM of the PMU and ensure compliance with ongoing FM covenants.
Special Account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, and will maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account, denominated in US Dollars.
The minimum amount of the application should be 20 percent of the authorized allocation. The
replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. A conversion account (USD to
Bulgarian Leva) may also be established, as well as separate accounts for Government contributions (USD
and conversion).
The Government will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by the
IBRD under the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial
statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system is being established at
the PMU. Once trained, the Accountants at the PMU would maintain and prepare quarterly financial
reports as part of Project Management Reports.
Accounting software and assessment of Y2K risks:
The project preparation consultant retained by under the Swiss grant has implemented the PAIS
software system in other PMU's in which he is working. Having a number of PMU's in Bulgaria having the
same software should provide a nucleus of staff who are conversant with the software and capable of
supporting each other.  Neither hardware or software purchased have displayed Y2K compatibility
problems.
Conclusion:
Significant progress has been made on the project financial management system and related documentation,
-77 -



the FM system fully satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
- 78 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Social Assessment
Three analyses are included in this section: (a) an assessment and strategy for combating corruption in the
health sector in Bulgaria, (b) a matrix which identifies and describes the interests of various stakeholders;
and (c) an assessment of the how the proposed Bulgaria Health Reform Project will impact upon
stakeholders, particularly vulnerable groups.
I.   A Multi-Pronged Strategy for Combating Corruption
II. Identification of Stakeholders [matrix table]
III. Social Assessment of Poor and Vulnerable Groups
1. A MULTI-PRONGED STRATEGY FOR COMBATING CORRUPTION
The main form of corruption affecting the health sectors in Bulgaria is administrative corruption.
This generally encompasses bribe payments or other private gains to public officials to alter the
prescribed implementation of existing rules and regulations. Common types of administrative
corruption include bribes to connect to public services, to be given priority in the provision of
government services, and to gain licenses. At the root of this corruption is discretion on the part of
public officials to grant selective exemptions, to prioritize the delivery of public services, or to
discriminate in the application of rules and regulations. Though it occurs at all levels of the state
and the economy, administrative corruption is rooted in poor mechanisms of control and
accountability within the state apparatus.
Background: Perceptions of Corrupt Practices in the Health Sector in Bulgaria
While not specifically targeted towards the health sector, a number of initiatives are underway to
monitor public perceptions of public corruption in Bulgaria. These monitoring initiatives, carried
out by "Coalition 2000", seek to gauge public opinions with regard to corruption, rather than
investigating or confirming the accusations made. Quarterly interviews are carried out with a
nationally-representative sample of 1000 persons using a standardized questionnaire. In addition,
in-depth interviews are conducted with political and business leaders.
Based on quarterly polling by "Coalition 2000", the public has consistently ranked custom officers
to be the most corrupt occupational group in Bulgaria, followed by medical professionals and
low-level traffic police. To more deeply explore perceptions of the health sector, one small-scale
study was carried out in the town of Bourgas. More than 90% of respondents said that there is
corruption within the health sector in their towns, while 65% reported that the majority of medical
professionals take bribes.   It is believed that these perceptions of the health sector are held
nationally.
Forms of corrupt practices: three forns of corrupt practices were specifically identified:
1. Public-sector physicians direct clients to private practitioners where they have to pay for
services rather than receiving the free public care. [This practice was reported by 75% of those
interviewed];
- 79 -



2. Clients do not receive health care services in a timely manner unless the physician is given
an "under the table" payment, a present, or favor. Physicians use tactics to postpone medical
treatment until favors are received. [Reported by 61%];
3. Some physicians write prescriptions for imported medications that are too expensive and
provided only at particular pharmacies.- Often, the physician has a financial stake in those
pharmacies. [Reported by 53%].
Public perception of why the physicians engage in corrupt practices were suggested: (1) the
low-pay of physicians (cited by 2/3 of respondents), (2) the absence of measures against those who
take bribes; (3) absence of clear norns to define the relationship between physicians and their
patients; and (4) the health care reform itself (reported by only a small percentage of respondents).
Public perceptions of how corrupt practices can be stopped: Over 80% of respondents reported
that corruption cannot be stopped, but that it can be severely limited. The proposed measures
suggested include: (1) economic changes to ensure salaries for the physicians. The respondents
reported that physicians need at least double their current salaries; (2) new regulations for the
provision of health services; (3) directives to change the relationship between physicians and their
clients; (4) implementation of the health sector reform; and (5) more vigorous measures against
corrupt physicians.
Strategy for Combating Corruption under the Project
As public sentiment can affect the implementation of the health sector reform, the National Health
Insurance Fund (NHIF) has been concerned about public perceptions that physicians engage in
corrupt practices. While not clearly designated as an "anti-corruption" strategy at the time of its
development, the NHIF has already developed and is implementing a multi-pronged approach to
deter corrupt practices. These guidelines will affect all transactions covered by the NHIF, but will
not address private transactions by physicians. While developed independently, NHIF's strategy is
highly consistent with the recommendations of the citizen groups detailed above. Features of the
strategy are highlighted below.
Codes of Conduct. It should be noted that it is within the national tradition to give presents to
physicians as an expression of gratitude for services provided. The difficulty lies in differentiating
between a bribe extorted as a pre-condition for the provision of medical services and a gift freely
given as an expression of gratitude. Consistent with this distinction, the NHIF defines physician
actions as "corrupt" when: (a) s/he requests a current or promised future gift or extra-payment
prior to the provision of services; or (b) postpones treatment until a gift or extra-payment is
received. Inexpensive gifts which are offered after services are provided are often perceived as
allowable. To better define and demarcate between "gifts" and "bribes", the NHIF is developing
and will disseminate "codes of physician conduct".
Payments for Health Services. A standardized 'price list!' which details reimbursement rates for
physicians from the NHIF has been produced and is being widely distributed to both the medical
community and to the general public. The NHIF seeks to widely inform the public about the
maximum charges that will be reimbursed for services financed by the NHIF.
Under health sector reform, the nature of payrnents from patients to physicians has changed
dramatically. Previously, patients often gave gifts to physicians for "free" services that were
- 80 -



financed by the Government. Under health care reform, employees are contributing premiums for
health insurance. Officials believe that patients will perceive that "they have already paid" for the
health care services and will be unwilling to provide additional contributions directly to the
physicians.
Adequate Pay for Physicians. As described earlier, physicians have been grossly underpaid given
their high level of education and experience. The labor adjustment strategy, coupled with the
broader health sector reform, is designed to dramatically increase the base salary of physicians by
reducing the total number of physicians employed and allowing part of the savings to be used for an
improved pay scale for the remaining physicians. In addition, physicians will be awarded
additional incentives to work in remote areas and to treat particular medical conditions.
Public Information. (a) a public inforrnation campaign is underway to inform both physicians and
the general population about the health sector reform, including public rights and responsibilities
under the reform; (b) departments in both the NI-IF and regional health insurance funds have
established "hot lines" to receive complaints from patients with regard to both the quality of
services received as well as over-payments requested. Telephone numbers for these hot-lines are
being widely published as part of the public information campaign using project funds for public
information. Later, hot-lines will be established in all 120 local offices.
Accountability. (a) Medical audits will be carried out in 2% of practices every month, such that
every practice will be audited about every four years; (b) a procedure has been established to
investigate and impose punishment for complaints of corrupt practices. The case will be heard by
an independent review panel, comprised of members of the regional health insurance fund and the
Bulgarian Medical Association. If evidence of corruption is found, the panel will recommend
suspension of that physician's contract with the National Health Insurance Fund for a period of
6-months to 2 years.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: one of the key performance indicators for the monitoring of
the Bulgaria Health Sector Reform Project is to judge whether public perceptions of corrupt
practices among physicians is changing. The indicator will be regularly monitored using qualitative
research methods. In addition, annual reporting to the Bank on progress in this area is a condition
of implementation in the Loan Agreement.
II. IDENTIFICATION OF STAKEHOLDERS WHO WILL BE AFFECTED BY ACTIVITIES PLANNED
UNDER THE HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Degree of
Support
Stake-                          for        How the Project Might      Project Activities
holders     Their Interests   Project's    Positively or Negatively   to Address Issues
Objectives    Affect their Interests
- 81 -



The      *  To ensure            Average to   *     If project objectives    * Improved medical
State;    well-being of the         high       are met, the health reform    equipment;
Govem-   population through                     will be guaranteed, effecting    * Improved training of
ment    improvements in                        positive outcomes in both     physicians;
health status;                       health status and in improved   * Support to health
*  Use of the state's                use of public financial       insurance, thereby
(financial) resources                resources;                    improving the use of
in most efficient                    *     Increased public        financial resources;
manner;                              support for Govt.             * Public information
*  To be perceived as                                              campaigns.
being responsive to
the needs of the
population.
Ministry    *  To ensure           Very high    *      Ditto.                  * Ditto.
of Health   accessibility and                    *     Strengthening of
& 28     equity in health care                 public support for the
Regional   delivery;                            Ministry of Health and for
Health    *  To ensue                          the National Health
Care     quality-of-care,                     Insurance Fund
Centers   sustainability, and
efficient use of
resources;
Ntl      *  To ensure the        Very high    *     Possibility to develop  * Technical assistance to
Health    maximum package of                   quality standards in           develop quality
Insuranc   quality services to the              out-patient and in-patient     standards;
e Fund &    population;                          care and to introduce these   * Improved
28      *  Cost containment;                 indicators in the information    hardware/software for
Regional                                        system of the HIF and          the computerization of
Health    *  Improved                          hospital information system;    health insurance
Insuranc   efficiency of health.                *      Support for             processes;
e Funds    care system;                         improvement of the            * Public information
*  Better                            efficiency of the system;     campaigns for public
administration of the                *     Increased public        awareness.
whole health care                    support for health insurance
delivery system.                     in general, and for the
insurance funds in particular.
- 82 -



The      *  To receive            Medium       *     If the project ('and    * All project
Popul-    high-quality health      (awaiting    especially the component on    interventions.
ation     services when needed,    "proof'    primary and ambulatory
without geographical,    that the    health care reform) is
economical, ethical,     reforms     successful, the whole
cultural, or other      will work)   population would benefit as
barriers.                            existing barriers to care
would be removed.
Vulner-    *  To receive            Medium       *     Vulnerable groups are    * A number of activities
able     high-quality health      (awaiting    expected to benefit MORE      under the project are
Groups    services when needed,     "proof'    from the project than the       specifically designed to
(the un-   without geographical,    that the     general population as:        address the needs of the
employe   socioeconomic,             reforms    A. Reform legislation          mentioned target
d, those    ethical, cultural, or     will      guarantees equitable access to   groups: special public
with low    other barriers.          address     health care services for the  information and
incomes,                              their      whole population (unlike in   education materials and
ethnic                              needs.    the past);                      events, health promotion
minoritie                                        B. The reform assures          initiatives, etc. In
s (the                                         prioritization within the      addition, special studies
Roma),                                          system on the basis of real    (technical assistance)
the aged,                                        health needs at the national   will monitor how the
rural                                          and regional levels;           project is affecting
populatio                                        C. Special incentives are      specific vulnerable
n, etc.                                         being built into the reform to    groups.
encourage physicians to
practice in rural,
under-served areas.
Medical   *  To keep job           Medium to   *       Many doctors will see    * See next row.
Assoc-    positions for their        High       improvements under the
iations of   members;                            project in terms of (1)
Physicia   *  To improve                         salaries/benefits; (2)
ns and    salaries and benefits                 professional growth/training
Dentists   of their members;                     opportunities; (3) quality of
*  To raise the                      medical equipment and
prestige (social                     medical technology used;
position) of medical                 *      However, there is
doctors and dentists;                currently an over-abundance
*  To ensure                         of physicians, and jobs will
professional                         be eliminated under the
satisfaction of their                health reform.
members.
- 83 -



Hospitals   *  Lowering costs;         Mixed       *     Pending: many            *        The project will
*  Improving                          hospitals are awaiting details   provide better support
efficiencies in the                   of closures and plans for       for:
provision of medical                  privatization.                  A.      A better
services;                                                             management system;
*  Heightened                                                         B.      Quality
satisfaction of medical                                               assurance;
staff.                                                                C.       Information
systems;
D.      Resources for
energy conservation,
leading to lower costs;
E.      Heightened
opportunities for human
resources development.
High       *     Many doctors will see    * Provision of improved
improvements under the         medical equipment and
project in terms of (1)        technologies;
salaries/benefits; (2)         * Professional
professional growth/training   development / training
opportunities; (3) quality of    opportunities, especially
medical equipment and          for rural doctors;.
*  To be gainfully                    medical technology used         Improved
employed as                                                           communications
physicians;                                                           equipment;
*  To have sufficient                                                 * Better health outcomes
income and benefits                                                   for patients due to
in their positions;                                                   improved standards of
*  To use better                                                      care;
Physicia    medical equipment                                                     * Improved standards of
ns       and technologies;                                                     living (indirect benefit)
* To have
opportunities for        Very Low    *       Jobs will be             * Severance payments
continuous education;                 eliminated for some             for unemployed medical
*  To have                            physicians, as there is         professionals (to be
opportunities to use                  currently an over-abundance;   financed by Government
better information                    potential for increased         funds);
technology (hardware                  unemployment                    * Retraining activities;
and software)                         *      Will likely lead to      * Seed money for
some social and professional    establishment of
conflicts between medical      entrepreneurial pursuits
professionals.                 (still under discussion).
*     These health
professionals will have
negative impressions of the
health reform, and could act
to discredit the
rationalization effort.
- 84 -



High       *     The importance of         * to be discussed
many nurses will be
heightened with expansion of
primary health care (PHC),
and these nurses will benefit
*  To be gainfully                    from more training and
employed as nurses;                    professional development
*  To increase                         opportunities.
Nurses    opportunities for
higher qualification     Very Low      *     Many nurses will be      * to be discussed
and training;                          worse off, as:
*  To increase                         A. The number of nursing
professional prestige.                 positions will likely drop as
physician jobs are cut;
B. Practicing nurses and
feldshers currently working
in rural areas will be replaced
by physicians;
C. Possible conflicts could
arise between doctors and
nurses.
Local     * To contribute to the     Mixed       * Successful reform will        * All project
Health     well-being of the local    (some       improve the image of local     interventions
Authoriti   population through         respon-     authorities; they will be
es      supporting the invest-    sibilities,    perceived to be responsive to
(262      ments in health           and their   local needs;
muni-    services provided at       financial    * If health financing reform
cipalities   local level;             subsidy,    is successful, health
.   )   * To financial           have been    insurance will efficiently
resources of             removed,    remove the fiscal burden
municipality in most     while new,   from the municipalities;
efficient manner;          as yet
- To be perceived as     unfunded,
being responsive to       respon-
the needs of the local    sibilities
constituency.               are
emerging)
Med.      *  Increase the           Medium,    Reform offers opportunities       * No direct
Univ. (5)   prestige of the           outcomes    to strengthen the role of        interventions.
academic institutions;    are still    medical universities in both
speculative   capacity building and
training (of physicians);
- 85 -



III. Social Assessment of Poor and Vulnerable Groups
Introduction.  The project development objective is to support the Government of Bulgaria in
implementing the reform of its health sector, designed to improve access to health care services and to
ensure on-going financial and operational sustainability. Implementation of the project must be viewed
within the framework of the economic and social context that has evolved over the past decade in Bulgaria.
The transition towards a more market-oriented economy began in November, 1989. The economic
transition that has been occurring since that time has been difficult, characterized by the emergence of
previously-unknown unemployment, falls in real wages, and substantial increases in wage inequality.
Unemployment is of long duration. The ranks of low-paid workers have grown, and their relative wage
status has substantially deteriorated. Poverty in Bulgaria tends to be a result of both low (relative) wages
and low household labor supply. However, work does not keep families out of poverty -- the "working
poor" account for one-third of all poor. Moreover, poverty incidence is quite high, even among families
with two eamers. Thus, Bulgaria does not conform to the usually observed pattem whereby two earners
effectively protect against poverty.
Bulgaria began the transition with a well-developed, albeit inefficient, health infrastructure and
good health indicators in many respects. However, as economic conditions deteriorated, health indicators
stopped progressing and even declined in some instances. Indicators show rising infant mortality, rising
incidence of tuberculosis, epidemics of communicable diseases, etc. In keeping with the transition to a
more market-oriented economy, the country has been moving from a highly-centralized, public sector health
system toward a more diverse and decentralized system. However, the fast pace of decentralization of the
health care delivery system and the unregulated emergence of private health care providers pose a real
threat to the quality of health care. With the assistance of the World Bank and other partners, the Ministry
of Health and the medical community are wrestling with the most complex, and often controversial, issues
such as the introduction of health insurance, the allocation of resources in a decentralized setting, and the
means to encourage greater efficiency and improved quality of health services.
Methodology of the Social Analysis
This social analysis seeks to: (1) identify key stakeholders who will be impacted by the proposed
Health Reform Project; (2) identify poverty-stricken and marginalized groups within the population to
ensure that they are protected under the project, and (3) ensure that the proposed project appropriately
identifies and addresses the needs of both the key stakeholders and vulnerable groups.
The analysis is based on:
* "Consultations with the poor", i.e. recent participatory focus group sessions that were carried out with the
poor to inform the World Development Report 2000/01. These surveys were carried out in three villages,
three towns and three cities in Bulgaria. Special attempts were made to interview the poor, as well as
ethnic minority populations;
* A review of the written literature; and,
* Interviews with informed parties, including Government officials, medical doctors, nurses, and
representatives of NGOs (including CEGA ("Creating Effective Grassroots Alternatives), the leading NGO
working with the Roma.
Identification of Key Stakeholders for the Health Sector Reform Project
- 86 -



This section seeks to identify key stakeholders who will be impacted by the proposed Health Sector
Reform Project and the nature of how they will be impacted. The following table identifies the
stakeholders, identifies their interests, estimates their degree of support for the project, suggests how the
project might affect their interests, and finally identifies specific project activities that were designed to
address their issues. In sum, there are four groups of stakeholders that were considered:
1. The Borrower. In this case, the Bank's most immediate client is the Government of Bulgaria and the
agencies responsible for project implementation: the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance
Fund.
2. Project Beneficiaries: the Government's immediate clients are those who will benefit from improved
delivery of health services and heightened efficiencies in the financing of these services:
* The whole population of Bulgaria (inicluding minority and rural populations).
3. Affected Groups: those individuals, families, communities or organizations who are not direct
beneficiaries (or specifically targeted to receive specialized interventions), but who may be affected and
who might need to be protected or monitored under the project:
e Physicians (who continue to work as physicians), physicians who leave medical service, nurses, etc.;
* The majority Bulgarian population;
e Minority groups (Roma, Turks, Pomaks);
e Urban and rural populations.
4. Other stakeholders: others with vested interests, including donors, non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), religious and community organizations, private sector firms, etc.
e The Bulgarian Medical Association;
 Local governments.
The table in II above outlines the expected impact of the project on each of these groups.
Ethnicity and Social Exclusion:
This section considers whether particular ethnic groups might be vulnerable to exclusion under the
Health Sector Reform Project. We begin with a description of ethnic groups within Bulgaria, and detail
special efforts under the project to ensure that the needs of these vulnerable groups are sufficiently
addressed.
According to Bulgaria's most recent census (4 Dec. 1992), ethnic Bulgarians account for over 85%
of the total population, with sizable minority populations of those of Turkish descent (9.7%), Roma
(gypsies, 3.4%), Pomak (Bulgarian Muslims) 0.8%, and other (including Madedonian, Armenian, Russian,
other) 1.1%. Independent demographic analyses suggest that that the Roma population may have been
significantly under-enumerated, with the correct proportion of Roma being in the 6-8% range.
- 87 -



Ethnic Groups in Bulgaria
(according to the Census of 4 December 1992)
Group                   Total Population  Per Cent
Total                         8,472,724    100.0
Bulgarian                     7,206,062    85.1
Turkish                         822,253     9.7
Roma (Gypsy)                    287,732     3.4
Pomak (Bulgarian Muslims)       65,546      0.8.
Other                            91,131     1.1
By minority ethnic groups:
The recent Voices of the Poor study found that there are three sub-groups of Bulgarian society
with are socially excluded -- the Roma, the disabled, and the Pomaks (Muslim Bulgarians) -- but the
situation is worst in the case of the first two groups. Significant discrimination against the Turks was not
identified.
The Roma are segregated, walled-off -- they live in particular places, in specific neighborhoods,
ghettoes, which are literally walled-off into something like inner cities with their own infrastructure. Local
residents who participated in the focus groups expressed that "we're excluded as if we were lepers; we've
been left here to die".
Unlike the Roma, who are socially excluded, the disabled are excluded because of inaccessibility.
They are often confined to their homes by the absence of elevators, high steps in public places, inconvenient
transportation, etc. Even polyclinics often have no conveniences for wheelchairs. "For the disabled, the
world is inaccessible; for the Roma, it is unattainable."
The Roma
The Roma (an ethnic group often referred to by the pejorative names of "Gypsies" or "Tsigan"),
who arrived in Bulgaria in the 13th and 14th centuries, are the country's most visible minority group. The
number of Roma in Bulgaria varies according to different estimates, from about 300,000 (1992 census) to
600-800,000 (various sources). The Roma in Bulgaria, like those around the world, are not a united and
homogeneous community. Rather, they are heterogeneous in terms of religion (some Muslim, Orthodox,
Protestant); language (Roma dialects, Turkish, Bulgarian), and types of traditional crafts and way of life.
While there are exceptions (such as the socially-integrated town of Kalofer), the status of the Roma
in Bulgaria is similar to that of the Roma in many other countries in Central and Eastem Europe: all of the
components that produce poverty and despair are prominently displayed. Unemployment in many Romani
communities approaches 90 percent. Education beyond the grade-school level is a rarity. Basic services
(adequate housing, running water and sewage, adequate health care) is virtually non-existent.
Social exclusion is common, and the Roma face open discrimination. In the work place, Roma,
who previously had worked in state-owned industrialized segments of the economy doing the lowest-paying
and menial jobs (hauling coal, mixing the cement), became the first to be laid-off or fired with the closing
of the factories. Unemployment rates amongst the Roma have now reached 80-90% (compared with 16%
among Bulgarians as a whole). The situation was made worse by inflation, which had reduced the value of
- 88 -



the social welfare payments. Housing is generally very poor, often in areas where municipal services
(including sanitation services) are vastly inferior to those provided in other areas. Most Roma attend
segregated schools, where the graduation rate has dropped from 60% in the 1980s to about 30% now.
As elsewhere, the Roma are often considered by the rest of the population to be dirty and lazy
people who are prone to crime. That some Roma are active in the black market and prostitution, and have
a disproportionately high crime rate, perpetuates this stereotype. However, to some extent, the stereotype
is self-perpetuating, as poor economic status is partially due to these prejudices and to a great extent is
responsible for the high crime (especially theft) rate. Of course, the Roma do not agree with this
characterization, and reported that they too had had the same living standards as the other people prior to
1990. They too had belonged to the "average" economic class. The economic hardship caused by
unemployment and the dwindling value of public assistance has necessitated petty theft and begging to
avert hunger in the family.
The Voices of the Poor study highlights the stigmatization of the Roma. As reported in that study,
The Roma were frequently discussed as a group apart. For example, while discussing the
percentage of different categories of people in the community, the total was made up to 100%o,
and then some extra 30-40% were addedfor the Roma, because they "don't count" or "they are
in a class of their own". In contrast, Roma [mostly] discussed all social groups in the
community without drawing a distinction between Roma and Bulgarians. The Roma also
identified different sub-categories within their community. The extremely poor among them are
those who have no electricity, running water, toilets. "here's a widow who doesn't even have a
door at her shelter; just a blanket."
What strategies and activities would best meet the needs of the Roma? The Govemment argues
that, in order to improve the social and economic situation of the Roma, and thereby reduce crime amid
economically disadvantaged groups, a comprehensive strategy of encouraging and promoting projects
dealing with the problems of the Roma, such as improving Roma education and encouraging education in
Roma language is required. While the Government has adopted such a strategy, the implementation of
such projects is difficult, constrained not only but also by competing needs for state resources, but also by
the lack of coordination amongst Roma groups in identifying and communicating their needs to
Government.
One qualitative survey conducted by the Roma-Lom Foundation in the late 1990s tried to identify the most
urgent needs. Roma in Lom identified their three biggest problems as: (1) unemployment, (2) low
educational level and low levels of school attendance, and (3) the poor condition of the infrastructure in
their neighborhoods. These results are consistent with what was learned from the Voices of the Poor study.
It should be noted that, while the Roma did not identify. health care as one of the most pressing of
their needs, disturbing inequalities between the Roma and the majority population are seen with respect to
health. The Roma-Lom Foundation reports:
The low living standard of the Roma has a destructive influence on their health. The mortality
rate has been rising in recent years. Only five percent of the Roma reach retirement age,
whereas for the rest of the population the corresponding figure is 35 percent. One of the most
serious problems is tuberculosis. Recently, the Roma-Lom Foundation tested 70 children from
one of the neighborhoods for tuberculosis; forty of them tested positive.
- 89 -



Pomaks (Bulgarian Muslims).
The Pomaks are a Slavic people who live in the Balkan region of southern Europe. They are
usually considered to be Bulgarian since they speak a Bulgarian dialect and have cultural practices similar
to the ethnic Bulgarians. They are distinguished, however, by their non-Bulgarian names and their devotion
to Islam, rather than to Orthodox Christianity. Although most of the world's Pomaks live in Bulgaria,
small clusters are also found in Greece, Macedonia, and Romania. The Pomak economy is based on
agriculture, and raising animals (cows, goats, and sheep) is also important. Most Pomak farners live in
two-story dwellings in rural villages that are surrounded by their fields and pastures. Pomak women are
renowned for their weaving abilities. Many Pomaks also earn income as migrant workers.
Some sentiments expressed in the Voices of the Poor Study suggest that there is a disparaging
attitude toward Pomaks by both ethnic Bulgarians and by ethnic Turks, because they are alien to both
groups. Pomaks voluntarily exclude themselves from both groups and live separately in small communities.
The Turks
The Turks, over 800 thousand people of Turkic ethnicity who live in scattered pockets in
contemporary Bulgaria, are descendants of the Rumelian Turks of the Ottoman Empire which dominated
the lower Balkans until the late 19th century. Of the estimated 7 million Rumelian Turks who had lived in
the Balkan region at the turn of the century, most have emigrated to Turkey, leaving only about 1.5 million
in all of the Balkan states.
During Communist rule in Bulgaria (from 1947 to 1989), the Muslim Turks, with their "outdated"
religious customs, were considered an obstacle to a modem industrialized society. From 1985 to 1990, the
expression of any aspect of Turkic culture was unlawful. During this period, according to Bulgarian state
authorities, there were no Turks in Bulgaria; there were only "Islamicized Bulgarians". These people,
however they were referred to, were systematically discriminated against. They were relegated to the
performance of the least-skilled jobs, and were effectively barred from political access. The Communist
government carried out a much-publicized campaign of forced "Bulgarianization" of the ethnic Turks in
Bulgarian culminated in 1984-85 with the decreed issuance of Slavic names to replace Islamic ones on the
mandatory identity cards. This decree was met with considerable, and sometimes violent, resistance.
Since 1989, the Turks have enjoyed greater freedom and the Muslim community has returned to
some of its old customs. The Turks now have full political, cultural, and religious rights, and have
considerable influence in Bulgaria's government. There is no official discrimination of Bulgarian Turks.
The Voices of the Poor study, when considering socially excluded groups, considered the Turks to be
socially integrated.
The core problem of the ethnic Turks in Bulgaria is very similar to that of the majority ethnic
Bulgarians at present: the poor economic situation. This group has experienced severe economic pressures
because of their traditional occupation as agriculturists and their social immobility. However, some
discrimination by the Bulgarian populace remains. There is workplace discrimination, with most of the
supervisory positions being given to Bulgarians. Though the situation has improved, the legacy of being
denied university education also hurts their economic status. There are few Turkish officers in the
Bulgarian military.
- 90 -



Vulnerable Groups: the Poor
This section considers whether "the poor" might be vulnerable to exclusion under the Health
Reform Project. We begin with a general description of poverty in Bulgaria.
Who are the poor? Estimates of the number of poor people varies according to different research
methods. National statistics for 1997 estimate that poverty is pervasive -- 69.5% of Bulgaria's population
is characterized as "poor". The most disadvantaged are identified as the ethnic minorities discussed above:
the Roma, the Pomaks, and the Turkish minority. Most of the poorest have low educational levels, and
often have many children. The poor also include the long-term unemployed, single mothers, the disabled,
and some retired people. Poverty is estimated to be slightly higher in urban areas, though the lowest level
is reported in Sofia.
The informal focal group discussions carried out for the Voices of the Poor study identified the
following socioeconomic groups within society. (Note that estimated percentages in each category are
indicative only as they were not scientifically estimated).
1. The Rich, 5%. Many in this category are perceived as to have their fortune by dishonest means.
"Nothing has changed -- those who were well off before are well off now too, and those who were poor still
are." "The means by which mobility is achieved have remained the same: politics -- party commitment;
shady dealing and corruption; and connections." However, there is also the new recognition that some
newly wealthy achieved wealth through high education and "being smart".
2. "Normally-living" people: 15%. Normally-living is defined as having steady employment and salaries,
being able to afford holidays and not to worry about the future;
3. "Us", the poor, 70%, the overwhelming majority, who can barely make ends meet. Haven't starved to
death, but each day is unpredictable because of job insecurity and lack of money; Generally, poverty in
Bulgaria is not characterized by real hunger, but rather by cutbacks in consumption and a loss of previous
status associated with job and income security.
4. The Roma, 8%, an intermediate group who are poorer than the poor, but are not really destitute and
social outcasts. Characterized as having exceptionally high unemployment.
5. A small group of the destitute or people living in extreme poverty (2%), who are excluded from the
community -- people who have no food and no shelter. These persons have to rummage in garbage cans
and cannot cope by themselves. In addition to the socially marginalized (drug users), the category also
includes sick elderly people, some disabled, and orphans.
Focus group discussions with "the poor" highlight that respondents do not associate "well-being"
with wealth. They note that the rich have money, but don't necessarily have security nor the respect of the
community. "III-being", however, is identical with poverty, and most focus group respondents reported the
state of ill-being to be their is to "our situation." Poverty, and all of its related problems, is perceived as a
recent problem in Bulgaria -- having emerged shortly after the political change in 1989. It is widely felt
that unemployment and the collapse of the social safety net (which is associated with the availability ofjobs
and social security) are the driving forces behind all other current problems. A commonly expressed
sentiment was that: "even though people were underpaid back then too, they nevertheless had a sense of
security." It was further noted that many of the currently poor were in the "middle-class" a decade ago, and
that their current status was not the result of their own decision or choice. They were victims of the social
transformation.
In identifying their greatest concems, the poor listed: (1) stable employment and steady wages; (2)
-91 -



food security, especially amongst the Roma; and (3) social cohesion, as opposed to the social exclusion and
discrimination faced by the Roma.
The Health Reform Project will not target interventions towards "the poor" as a vulnerable group.
As evidenced by the above description, the majority of the population is characterized as poor. The most
vulnerable (the poorest of the poor) are identified as the ethnic minority populations who will be monitored
under the project.  Finally, it should be noted that many families count on their welfare payments
(unemployment, child benefits, and welfare for socially disadvantaged and disabled people).
Notwithstanding the common complaints about delayed welfare payments and shady dealing at the welfare
office, these are recognized as a safety net though "if we were to depend only on the welfare payment, we'd
starve to death."
Institutions
Which institutions are important in people's lives? According to the Voices of the Poor study, the
labor office, the municipality (often personified as the mayor), the police, and the welfare office are the
most important. The school and different types of health care institutions (hospitals, polyclinics, health
care centers) were consistently mentioned, but were not considered most important, in both rural and urban
settings. At the same time, the most important official state institutions, except for schools and health
institutions, are on the whole evaluated negatively in terms of mistrust and inefficiency. Non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) are popular in large urban areas, but are virtually unknown of in rural sites and
small towns.
The municipalities have significant vested interests in the health sector reform. Until now, local
governments have been one of the major agents channeling resources into the health care system at the local
level, including both out-patient and hospital care. Under the old system of health care financing, about 1/3
of municipal finances went towards health care. Municipalities were responsible for funding and managing
all polyclinics (previously the main instrument of group primary health care) and municipal hospitals.
Municipal authorities were viewed by the local population as the institution responsible for the status of the
health sector and health services in the area, and it is likely that this perception will continue even after the
introduction of the general practitioners, and later on, of the insurance financing of hospital care. With the
introduction of the national health insurance, local authorities will: (a) be relieved of their responsibilities
for the PHC sector, except on the level of managing/renting out facilities to the GPs, and (b) be relieved of
the burdens of financing the local PHC system.
However, at the same time, the municipalities will: (a) continue, for some time period, to be
viewed as the local custodian of the health service sector, and will continue to suffer the consequences of
any problems with the new system; (b) lose a large part of their central subsidy as they are supposed to
cease having expenses for the PHC. However, some municipal budget deficits and indebtedness may occur
as there is not direct correspondence between the loss of subsidy and the loss of responsibilities; and (c)
assume a number of new responsibilities brought about by the new system. Examples include: providing
administrative structure and mechanisms for renting out facilities, for collecting payments from the GPs,
for negotiating contracts with the GPs for use of facilities and equipment, etc.
Health care
Focus Group Concerns about Health Care
The interviews with the poor and with minority populations that were carried out for the Voices of
- 92 -



the Poor study covered a wide-variety of issues and concerns. In ranking those that caused the greatest
concern, participants were clearly most concerned about the effects of unemployment and the loss of steady
wages. They believed this to be the root problem that caused all other major concerns. In prioritizing the
"list of greatest problems" affecting the poor and minorities in rural sites, 16 topics were mentioned; health
was not included. In the urban sites, only 4 groups mentioned health concerns. Specific health-related
concerns mentioned during the focus groups are detailed below.
Heightened Disease Burdens due to the Transition:
A small number of respondents were concerned about heightened risk-seeking behavior
(widespread heroin and alcohol abuse in the Roma population in Varna) and increased disease burdens as a
result of economic transition. While many of the city groups mentioned that a major personal impact of
poverty is disease (and specifically mental disorders such as anxiety and depression), a surprising omission
is that participants did not report current conditions of ill-health. It is known, for instance, that certain
sub-groups of the children within the Roma population are suffering from tuberculosis, but these concerns
were not discussed during the sessions.
Costs of Health Services and Medications:
Many participants were reminiscent for the pre-transition days when everyone was employed and
protected by a social safety net. There was a clearly-expressed desire to have sufficient income (or
Government intervention) to cover what are considered to be the essentials of daily life -- food, health care
services, medicines, heating, and education.
e  How do you make ends meet with only a small pension, high taxes, high bills for utilities, and
high-priced medicines?
3  A paid leave, free health care, a holiday in a sanatorium. And, when they recover, they willfind
their jobs waiting for them and even a welcome party organized by the colleagues. While now a
sudden illness will bring ruin to the family and, at the end, you will be kicked out by your employer.
*   The "rich" are not afraid of accidents because they can afford their hospital treatment;
e  Before 10 Nov 1989, life was better, there was greater security because the prices of foods and
medicines were low and stable (pensioners, Sofia);
*  Medicines are no longerfree-of-charge; that's why it's harder to be ill now;
*   Even if the doctors diagnose your case and write out a prescription, drugs are so expensive. That's
why I asked the doctor to explain the diagnosis to me and then made inquiries about the herbs
recommended by traditional medicine for that illness.
Access for the Disabled:
* There are no lanes for wheelchairs, not even in polyclinics where they are supposed to turn up every
three months in order to get the successive certificate of disability.
Corruption
Corruption was frequently mentioned, particularly by the Roma population, who perceived that their access
to health care services would be limited or eliminated if they did not pay bribes to the physicians.
* Corruption is virtually everywhere -- that's how you place orders at the factory; that's how you make
sure that your child gets decent medical treatment;
- 93 -



* They'll let you die unless you grease their palm. (older Roma men from Filipovtsi, Sofia);
* Doctors won't even look at you unless you give them something;
* We used to [prior to the collapse of the social security safety net] have doctors, and every time a
baby was born in the neighborhood, they came here and made you give the baby medicine. If you
didn't, you were scolded by the doctor. Now, the doctor won't admit Gypsies even in critical
condition unless you pay a bribe.
Access (see also Quality of Care)
The following comments refer for physical access to health care facilities in terms of accessibility
of services, transportation options, etc. Discussion of access in terms of discrimination is covered in the
sections on corruption and quality-of-care.
* The collapse of the transport infrastructure has made access to health services very difficult. The
medical auxiliary who used to commute to the village seldom comes nowadays.. For both humans
and animals, the villagers have now begun to rely on traditional practices -- herbs, midwives, even
witchcraft;
* The collapse of the infrastructure raises specific female problems. Young mothers complained about
the closure of the health care center in the villages of Sredno Selo and Kalaidzhi and the need to
travel to Zlataritsa for check-ups and advice. Since the capabilities of the unit in Zlataritsa are also
very limited, patients are usually sent to Elena, especially for obstetric help. All this adds up to
some 45 km and, given the limited bus services, poses serious problems. Several women told how
they had given birth at home with the help of "old women ". One woman said that she had given
birth in a car on the road to Zlataritsa.
Quality of Care /Discrimination
Participants were asked about the quality of care in the various types of health care facilities
(hospitals, polyclinics, etc.). Most were ambivalent regarding the types of facility --- rather, what's
important is the humane attitudes of the people employed in a particular institution that makes a big
difference. If doctors treat people with respect, the health care institution is evaluated highly. If not, just
the opposite. The hospital is clearly a main problem for the Roma groups. "They treat us like dogs.";
"Once they see that we're Gypsies, they throw us out like dogs" were common expressions from all of the
Roma groups who participated in the focus groups in all sites.
The Health Sector Reform Project within Bulgaria's Social Context
The Health Sector Reform Project, and the National Health Insurance Fund more generally, have developed
a strategy to ensure equal access to health care. Components of the strategy are detailed below:
Guarantees for Equal Access to Health Care Services.
Legislation. With ratification of the "Health Care Establishments Act", the Government is trying to ensure
that the new health system will provide full access and coverage to all citizens of Bulgaria, including the
vulnerable groups. This is achieved through a legislative and regulatory reform that addresses the issue
from the perspective of both the provider and the recipient. Special efforts were written into the law to
ensure that geographically rural areas are included.
- 94 -



Provision of Services. Under the Act and under NHIF regulations, health care provision was planned for
and distributed on a territorial principle, based on the development and implementation of National and
Regional Health Maps. The maps were created on the basis of: (a) the geographical, infrastructure,
demographic, and health status features of the regions; (b) the existing health care institutions and their
potential for providing medical care; (c) requirements for emergency, primary, and specialized out-patient
care, including needs for facilities and medical equipment, and (d) regional health priorities.
Special Efforts for the Provision of Services in "Undesirable" Locations. A set of measures was
developed to attract physicians to remote or less desirable locations. According to the National Framework
Contract, "less desirable locations" are defined as: those that are a long distance from emergency medical
services and hospital centers, places with undeveloped infrastructure, mountainous area, environmentally
undesirable areas, etc. The NHIF will pay the practitioner additional salary of up to BGN 25 per month
for each of the listed disadvantages in the location. The MOH, supported by the first and second health
projects, is also giving these areas high-priority status for refurbishing and equipping.
Full Coverage of Insurance Premiums for Vulnerable Groups. The National Health Insurance Fund seeks
to register every citizen in Bulgaria for health insurance, regardless of his ability to pay. For employed
workers, contributions of 6% are currently being made to the NHIF, of which 80% is paid by the employer
and 20% by the employee. The employer to employee proportion will change with time until the
contribution proportion is equalized at 50%:50%. For workers who have been unemployed for up to one
year's duration, the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (Unemployment Office) is contributing the
premiums on behalf of the citizen. For those who are long-term unemployed or receiving public assistance,
premiums are paid by the municipalities through the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy.
Recognizing that registration for health insurance has only been a recent event, NHIF estimates that there
are 500,000 to 700,000 persons who have not been identified and for whom premiums are not yet being
collected. These are largely persons who work part-time in the agricultural sector. Attempts are being
made, with the assistance of the Ministry of Agriculture, to develop a register of such persons.
Even in the absence of having been officially registered in the health insurance system, patients will not be
refused services by a general practitioner. Upon receipt of services, they will be newly registered in the
health insurance system. Attempts at cost recovery will be made for the current services either through
direct payments by the patient or from the Unemployment Office or through the municipalities, as
appropriate.
Public Education Campaigns. The Public Information Office of the National Health Insurance Fund has
developed public information campaigns to inform the general population about changes that are occurring
as a result of the introduction of health sector reform in the country. Some of the messages include: (a)
how to register for health insurance; (b) patient rights and responsibilities under the health reform; and (c)
advertisement of the correct, reimbursable prices for services. Special messages have been developed to
target particular sub-groups of the population. With project funding, discussions are underway with NGOs
such as CEGA ("Creating Effective Grassroots Alternatives") to investigate how to best inform and work
with communities such as the Roma, who often don't speak or write in Bulgarian language.
Hot-Lines. Special telephone lines will be set-up in the National Health Insurance Fund (already
operational), the 28 Regional Health Insurance Funds, and eventually the local offices to provide guidance
for citizens to report physicians that refuse to provide services, offer mediocre services, or who request
"under-the-payment" payments from their clientele. Procedures to deal with such issues have been
established.
- 95 -



Study Plans and Project Conditionalities A small number of key indicators will be used to monitor and
evaluate the performance of the Bulgaria Health Sector Reform Project. Specific indicators were selected,
and will be reported on regularly by the PMU, to address whether the Roma population truly have access to
the health care services. This information will be gathered using qualitative research methods.   In
addition, one of the loan conditions states that "the Government of Bulgaria will report annually to the
Bank (by April 30 for the previous calendar year) on progress that has been made towards ensuring
uniform access to health services for all ethnic, economic, and geographic groups, as well as the level of
health insurance coverage for these groups and the population generally."
- 96 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Monitoring and Evaluation
Decision Tree and Logframe. A decision-tree which highlights how the World Bank-financed project is
expected to contribute to health sector objectives in Bulgaria was developed as follows:
1. Program Goal: to stop deterioration in the health status of the population
while gradually improving to Western European standards.
2. Project Development Objective: to support the Government of Bulgaria in implementing reform of its health
sector,
designed to improve access and to ensure on-ging financial and operational sustainability
3A. PDO, sub-objective: To improve access and  3B: PDO: sub-objective: to ensure on-going financial
effectiveness of health care and health promotion in  and operational sustainability of the health sector.
Bulgaria.
Output 3.A.1: to ensure access to a basic package of    Output 3.B.1: to ensure financial sustainability of
well-functioning health services for all members of the health insurance system by funding a labor adjustment
population, including vulnerable groups and the rural,              strategy
through a newly-designed network of GPs and hospitals to transition surplus physicians out of the health sector
and to improve provider payment mechanisms.
Output 3.A.2: to heighten quality of health services    Output 3.B.2: to implement new National Health
through provision of better equipment and supplies,    Insurance, ensuring funding at central and regional
improved service standards for quality assurance,                 levels.
and increased incentives to provide high-quality care.
Output 3.A.3: to improve capacity of providers    Output 3.B.3: to improve information flows
through training in use of upgraded equipment, regular   through provision and use of information systems
conduct of medical audits, and availability of Investment    in GP offices, hospitals, & the National Health
Funds                                       Insurance Fund.
for locally-selected upgrades of facilities and equipment.
Output 3.A.4: to better inform public about the
implications
and benefits of the health reforms.
As its project development objective (PDO), the Health Sector Reform Project will support the Government
of Bulgaria to implement a fundamental reform of its health sector, designed to improve access and to
ensure on-going financial and operational sustainability. This objective, when combined with other
non-Bank financed interventions, is expected to contribute to improvements in the health status of the
Bulgarian population. While the Bank loan can influence both the development objective and the larger
sector goals, the Bank will not be able to claim success or failure at the level of health status changes as
these are affected by a wide range of interventions and external factors. Specific outcomes expected from
the project, which the project can be held directly accountable for producing, are highlighted in the decision
tree as Outputs.
- 97 -



Indicators: within the decision-tree framework of project aims and objectives, a specific set of "key
indicators" has been established for the purposes of project monitoring and evaluation. The indicators
selected, as well as methods for collection and critical assumptions are provided in Annex 1. The selected
indicators are linked to specific project activities, which are directly tied to the Government's objectives.
While not designed to capture every change which is likely to occur as a result of the health sector reform,
or from the project more specifically, the indicators are designed to provide strong indications of whether
the project is achieving its objectives in each of the key areas of the project design. While the Government
has chosen to monitor a broader range of indicators than those chosen as key indicators, the Bank will only
regularly monitor the set that are identified in Annex 1.
Methods for Monitoring and Evaluation, including Supervision Reporting: the Project Management
Unit will:
1. Prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs), which detail project financing needs and
sources for the subsequent quarter of project implementation, and describe the financial situation of the
project in terms of actual versus planned expenditures for each project activity;
2. Prepare an annual Implementation Progress Report (IPR), with the first report due on 30 April 2001
(for activities through 31 December 2000). An indicative outline of the structure and contents of the report
format follows. The format will be evaluated during a future supervision mission, after the first report has
been submitted and finalized:
Format for the annual Implementation Progress Report:
a. Executive Sumnary. This section will provide a brief summary overview of project progress up to
31 December, including: (i) summary of project activities, (ii) financial status; (iii) project
successes/achievements, (iv) problems encountered and suggested actions; and (v) major issues still
outstanding.
b. Proiect Activities during Previous Year: this section will provide a short description of project
activities carried out during the previous year, with accompanying tables showing progress relative to
targets/plans for the period and to total project targets/plans (e.g. equipment procured, training
activities completed, studies underway, etc.). Results of any major surveys, studies, or evaluative
activities which analyze or impact upon the health sector reform will be briefly described. In addition,
any major achievements or successes during the previous year will be highlighted. Any problems or
delays will be described and explained, together with proposed remedial actions.
c. Planned Activities for Next Year: this section will include a brief description of activities planned to
be completed during the next year (January 1- December 31), with accompanying tables showing the
relationship of planned activities to project targets/plans;
d. Budget and Financial Status. This section will summarize progress in project expenditure (by
component, sub-component, and activity) during the previous year relative to amounts budgeted for
that period and the overall project cost tables. Explanations for over- or under-spending will be
provided. Progress on claims, reimbursements, and audits will also be described, with comments
provided on any delays or problems encountered and suggested remedial action. This activity will be
closely linked the quarterly report submission but will be done on an annual basis.
e. Proiect Management Status. This section will describe problems or issues relating to project
- 98 -



management, if any, with suggested remedial action.
f. Key Indicators. This section will provide available information on trends in the defined indicators,
relative to project goals, accompanied by appropriate comments. Quantitative values are required on
an annual basis for the following indicators: (i) all indicators that are based on administrative records
of the state, the MOH, the National Health Insurance Fund, or other Government agencies, (ii)
indicators to measure trends in ensuring access to all ethnic, economic, and geographic groups; and (iii)
indicators to measure trends in anti-corruption activities. The latter two sets are specified in the loan
conditions. Other qualitative indicators will be required only at baseline, mid-tern review, and at the
end of the project.
g. Status of Covenants. This section will provide information on the status of project arrangements;
h. Major Issues. This section will provide an analytical description of all major issues in project
implementation arising in any of the aspects listed above. It will also lay out for discussion the
suggested actions for addressing them on the part of both Govenmuent and the IBRD. Any issues with
regard to the relationship between Government and the IBRD will also be highlighted here.
3. Mid-Term Review: the PMU will have drafted a mid-term review by April 30, 2003 (reporting on
progress through 31 December 2002. The mid-term review will follow the format of the annual reports of
above, but will highlight progress towards ALL agreed upon indicators (including those based on focus
groups and opinion polls) and implementation progress and constraints. In addition, the report will
consider whether any adjustments need to be made to the original project design for the remainder of the
implementation period. This report will be used as the basis for a joint MOH-NHIF-Bank mid-term review
mission in June-July 2003.
4. Nationally-representative sample surveys will be conducted at the beginning and end of the project for
the purpose of evaluating whether significant health status changes are occurring within the Bulgarian
population. An over-sampling of vulnerable ethnic and geographic groups will be conducted. While the
project cannot be held wholly responsible for changes in these indicators, as health status is affected by a
wide range of variables, it is important to gauge whether significant changes are occurring in important
disease and mortality patterns in the country. Planning for the specific topics to be covered in the sample
surveys should begin immediately, as these details need to be ftnalized before effectiveness.
_99 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Progress on Health Reform
The Legislative Reform started with the adoption of three fundamental Acts of Parliament that set up the
overall framework for radical changes in the health sector: (i) the Health Insurance Act, (ii) the Act on
Professional Associations of Medical Professionals and Dental Surgeons, and, (iii) the Health Care
Establishments Act.
Health Insurance. The Health Insurance Act was passed by Bulgarian Parliament in June, 1998, with
technical assistance/policy input from the Bank. Initially, this law provided for the collection of insurance
premiums to commence on July 1, 1999, and for the health insurance financing to begin operations by
January 1, 2000 for ambulatory care services and by January 1, 2001 for hospital services. Collection of
premiums started as scheduled. However, the latter was postponed by 6 months, and is now scheduled for
July 1, 2000 for ambulatory care and July 1, 2001 for hospital services. This rescheduling is giving the
Government needed time to prepare for the start-up of the new payment mechanism.
In connection with the above, a National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), and 28 regional offices, were
established. As part of this process, significant investments in infrastructure (e.g., facilities, computers,
and related training) were made as part of the overall implementation process. Modifications to the
premium rates for social security and unemployment insurance were made to provide the fiscal room for the
introduction of the health insurance premiums. Health insurance premiums, amounting to 6% of personal
income (currently divided 80:20% between employers and employees), are being collected at this time by
the National Social Security Institute, under an inter-agency arrangement with the NHIF.
With the introduction of the national system of health insurance in the areas of primary and specialized
care, all insured Bulgarian citizens are guaranteed to have access to a package of health services,
irrespective of their income and property status. As part of this new financing system, a number of free or
highly discounted pharmaceuticals will be available to patients will certain illnesses.
There has been a great deal .of activity by the NHIF preparing for the July 1, 2000 implementation date for
the coverage of ambulatory care services. This has included the specification of the information systems,
ordering of equipment, acquisition and renovation of facilities, design of organizational structures and
hiring of staff, specification of the package of services and payment mechanisms, and the design of training
and public information strategies. Completing any one of these activities by itself in less than a year would
be a major achievement; completing all of this work with the limited number 'of staff available is
remarkable.
The information technology strategy is one area that has experienced rapid development over the past year.
A great deal of work had already been done by the time the Australian Health Insurance Commission
(AHIC) team financed under the PHRD Grant arrived in Sofia, and changes have taken place since they
completed their assignment.  While the NHIF staff working in this area are both dedicated and
knowledgeable, there is a significant need for improved project management skills among the members of
the management team, as well as an immediate need for outside expertise with both project and general
management experience to assist the NHIF in planning and implementing the necessary information
systems. Swiss grant funds are being used to address these needs.
- 100-



Status of Health Establishments under the Restructured Health Care Sector. There are two major
types of health institutions that will change in ternns of their property and privatization status as a result of
the health reform: hospitals and polyclinics.  Per recent legislation and the Government's program, the
status of these institutions regarding ownership and privatization is as follows:
0   Privatization, control, and ownership of hospitals
Re-registration of all hospitals into commercial companies will be completed by September 1, 2000.
With respect to ownership and privatization status, there will be three basic types of hospitals:
1. Municipal hospitals (the current municipal hospitals)
2. United Regional Hospitals (the current 28 regional hospitals)
3. University Hospitals and National Centers (about 20 in number)
After re-registration, the ownership of Cateworv y hospitals will be 100% municipal. Only Category 1
hospitals can be privatized - either by the medical staff or by an external investor through normal
privatization tenders. Internal privatization by staff (a kind of worker-manager buy-out) is only
allowed if 50%+1 of the medical staff wants to privatize the hospital. It is expected that no more than
10% of these hospitals will be privatized between 2001 and 2005, as investor interest is expected to be
limited during the health reform transition period.
Ownership of Category 2 hospitals will be 5 1%: state and 49%: municipal. These hospitals will not be
privatized.
Category 3 hospitals have a special status, with some privatization possibilities. While the majority of
these hospitals will remain state-owned, a small number could be privatized. They are being
re-registered into commercial companies for the purpose of allowing them to hold contracts with the
NHIF and other possible sources of financing such as funds for voluntary health insurance, insurance
companies, employers, etc.
* Privatization,, control, and ownership of polvclinics
Polyclinics are, and will continue to be, 100% municipally owned after the end of re-registration. As
long as they remain, their owners (the municipalities) will be obliged to ensure the funding for capital
investments of the polyclinics. However, if municipalities wish to introduce' improvements to benefit
their populations, municipalities can buy equipment as long as an investment totals more than BGL
10,000 (approximately USD$5,000) or as long as it is a specific medical or health care program.
The polyclinics can be privatized. It is expected that privatization will occur at a quicker pace for
polyclinics, given their smaller size, and the fact that the re-registration of the polyclinics is curreritly
more advanced than that of the hospitals. As opposed to hospitals, polyclinics will be available for
piece-meal privatization - i.e., GPs or specialists will be able to buy separate offices and specific
equipment (rather than being obliged to buy the entire polyclinic).
Municipalities will have contracts with all users of the polyclinics' space, and will rent office space and
medical equipment to them. The payment of salaries and supervision of the medical activities will be
covered respectively by the NHIF and the NHIF/BMA (Bulgarian Medical Association), and-will not
be under the control of the municipalities.
Introduction of General Practitioners (GPs). For the first time, the concept of the "General Practitioner"
- 101 -



as a family doctor is being introduced, which is expected to lead to improvements in relationships between
doctors and patients, and will provide more efficient access to primary health care. The first positive
changes regarding the quality of medical care are expected as early as the end of the year 2000.
The introduction of contractual relations between health care providers and the NHIF, and the combination
of the social and the free-market principles in health care provision, will allow for annual updates of the
benefits package for the insured people and for a stable balance of the doctors' and patients' interests.
Medical professionals will receive fair and adequate payment based on the quantity and the quality of their
work. The primary health care sector currently includes over 5000 general practitioners, more than 6000
specialists, and a large number of nurses, midwives, rehabilitation therapists, laboratory assistants, and
other personnel.
The Basic Package of Medical Services for General Practitioners in PHC was published as Ordinance 28 in
the official Gazette (106) on January 12, 2000. This very detailed package covers not only diagnostic and
curative services, but also health promotion activities (including targeted disease-prevention campaigns,
vaccination, and mother-child care). The detailed formulation of the package also acts as a reference for
both the GPs and the patients as to what might be expected in terms of services. With reference to this
package, the contracted doctors will be responsible for the delivery of services around the clock. They can
organize this together with other GPs in their own and adjacent municipalities. This development should
replace the Emergency Medical Services with respect to home visits and eliminate the PHC activities from
the EMS. The implementation of the PHC package is expected to begin on July 1, 2000.
The payment mechanisms selected and the proposed package of services (the National Framework Contract
which will formally establish the package of services was recently ratified), appear to represent "best
practice" proposals, which should provide the correct incentives for general practitioners to deliver needed,
high quality services. In particular, the proposal is aiming to ensure that services are provided to those
who need them, and that appropriate attention is paid to health promotion and disease prevention by using
the following mechanisms:
*   the use of an age adjusted capitation formula for general practitioners: for enrolled patients
between 18 and 55 years of age the general practitioner gets I x the capitation fee per enrolled
patient, under 3 years of age, it is 2x; between 3 and 18 years of age it is 1.5 x; and above 55 years
the GP will get 1.75 x the basic capitation fee.
*   giving bonuses for preventive care, and management of persons with chronic diseases:
cardiovascular diseases (especially hypertension), stroke, diabetes, kidney failure, chronic
obstructive pulmonary diseases and Parkinson's disease are the conditions for which the GP gets a
15% bonus (calculated over the basis fee) per patient belonging to this category. The GP will only
get paid for one disease category per patient. The GPs are going to use the "episode of care"
reporting system. The Health Insurance Fund will use physician profiling systems and statistical
methods as well as more in-depth medical audits to control the use of this bonus system. Clinical
guidelines are prepared for all these conditions, using a consensus method.
*   if the doctors are organized to deal with urgent care/ calls outside normal office hours and have
submitted a plan prior to concluding a contract, then the GP might get 15% of the basic fee for all
the enrolled patients
*   if doctors are working in poor conditions (mountainous/ bad road conditions; villages more than 50
kilometers from the office of the doctor; poor communication systems with only 1 or 2 telephones
available), then the GP gets 15 % for all the enrolled patients living in this area,
*   in the future the GPs may receive a bonus for attending continuous medical education and for
mentoring new physicians.
-102-



The proposed medical audit function will cover 2 percent of the physician services each month, and will
examine adherence to the conditions of the contract, and the appropriate use of practice guidelines and
rational prescribing practices. This function should ensure that material deviations from accepted practice
are discovered and corrected.
Similarly, the use of global budgets for specialty services with allowances for the capacity to adequately
use higher-cost diagnostic equipment, and reduced payments for services provided beyond the specified
amounts (digressive system), should provide income security for the physicians and high quality services
for patients, as well as help in cost containment. There are three levels of specialties, ranging from
specialists with very basic equipment, via medium level specialists ( 3 different specialties) getting 1.40 x
the basic fee to specialists working in a so-called diagnostic center getting 2 x the basic fee. For 12 visits of
patients/day the specialist gets the basic fee, from 12 to 20 visits per day 0.55 x and for visits over 20 per
day 0.45 x the basic fee. The fees are based on an average duration of 20 minutes per visit and include also
the investment and depreciation/interest costs as well as the costs for auxiliary personnel.
All of this is supported by regional per capita allocations based on the national health care map, with
appropriate allowances for geographic and other peculiarities. The diagnostic centers are expected to deal
with 70 % of the cases (only 30% will be referred to hospital) and will have to be accredited. The foreseen
accreditation will also include a review of the equipment and the contracting mechanism will include an
assessment of the needs for specific expensive equipment. One area of concern, mentioned in the AHIC
report (see section 2.6), was the capacity of the physicians themselves to be ready to contract with the
NHIF and deliver services in accordance with the signed contracts. The NHIF needs to work with the
physicians to address this issue. Some of the funds under the Swiss grant (see section 2.6) will be directed
toward this activity.
The training and public relations strategies also appear to be well thought out and seem to have benefited
greatly from the input of the AHIC Consultants working under the PHRD Grant.
Additional Components of the Government's Strategy in Health. In addition to the details highlighted
above, the Government will continue its role in organizing, managing, and financing emergency medical
aid, state sanitary control, epidemic prevention and control measures, blood transfusion services, hospital
psychiatric care, health promotion, and disease prevention measures. The Government will also continue to
be responsible for the overall management of the health care system and for guaranteeing health care
security through direct financial investmnent and supporting organizational changes, as appropriate.
By the end of its mandate, the Government will have started the implementation of 12 national health
programs which are of vital importance to certain groups of the population suffering from the highest
incidence illnesses in the country. A number of activities beyond the health insurance scope are envisaged
as well that are related to prevention, health promotion, and efficient treatment, and that have a direct
impact on the improvement of people's health.
-103 -






MAP SECTION






I2RD 26532R
22'                     2~~~~~~~3'                                                                                        2227
r; K.,h-v                                                   R    O M  A  N  I A_    4
T. Z           C,-,  K   dj                                                                                                                                           Al       *     rW
k                Kooiodo  ~~~~~~~~                    siso jo~~~~Torno Mogo-le                                                                                              T
Bolov&dhikrD
FED.  REP.    Iit s                                                                                                * o...                                                                                                S
OF                               MO NTA N A                    o. 0   MtRropoly ,o                                                             R-         r                     VARNA              S        ok          c
5.-. Gcber    000' jS1l                   Sloti.,          a    0                                  .
YUGOSLAVIA                        "-'i ,  0                                                                                                                      W        o
(SERBIA/MONT.)                            0-
42'      <       -V       I        V     BDOO      kam<;                                           GraFt 0e0  L             HV    C  s 1< ~5Oo v  o 1  -o,,~9 .4eo^3'^'                                     PiT
OKoloka  ,   ~ ti                                                               40onostil  05AlSo Konsintinov  P  i   i    '    ^ ^                8_    t        t      ap                                              4
4"1bePr            .                                                                         .         r. nooo
9           n           Rz gOO JO513                                   cyorkp0V8   Gorovasov4-znhyKrmn ^)                    . r       _          
so~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          sor "'rmso  Korl 0 '   -    Kno                                       ,            27'r T U R KEY                                                       29
M  CE  ON  A,, N,,0 ',t  s                                                   P. ndoUL pARv 
O'K o Dmo                                                      1                           0000'ro 3j I~/ 
-              -'       -/~~~                                       ~~~~~~ Z   ti
22^        4         Z3L<'J T > Serrl                                      <                      k  _,5-r                              _f                                              @      ObLSTkCAPITAL
HUNGARY/ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~    Uo \>   Dobr                G   R      poE  EonsCoKE  rY                   3ToKom              2                                                                69mc   NAINL-AIA
BokosOR OAIA                                                      .- C    s0 z0 6.          2                           .;L  O
IEE.MN   aZ                                    Aoosro  PoosAzhi              .                            L(uoeeaooa )                                                                    KILOMETERS
42                       N. ryUo                 0Sk  DiUr                                               ' 'eUo4oJei    C           Xyo                                                -4.i  a  asp,ue  y h  a  rog  m  fTc  of
T. K,,            ,,       0BogooRod                                      dA,kr ro             9h"
,).M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo eyCh.       k,I.g                                  seooogood                                                                         (*.0I                                                                         2
i~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Solok  Teono                                    ' Dopo                               oro S7  T              *1  '                                                 hw  D h5mUd'nolmpy  fan PYtr  r n  nos
M                                     S,oloo-Wo - GoEECE                                    .  ' .  5rd,oN                                                                                               I
MACEDONIA  To U,rorr,oo                                                                       *                        Iv  OVMOT}                                                      BULG A RIA1.1I)LOVIV  I
'~~~ jPGvC*    KoIoto'%C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ko
A                                     "%~~~~~~~~~~~'*'0""    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ~~~~~0                                              SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
2,2'                                2j3                                                                                                                                                                       OBLAST CAPITALS
HUNGAR                 G    R   E                                      T. K-,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j    ~*                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
HUGAY'                                                                                                                                                                                                     ---     ROADS
ROMANIA          *''41'$                                                                                                                                                                               PORTS
look                                                                                                              -"- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OBLAST BOUNDAEIES
> YES REP                                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ISEBA/MONT I/   BULGARIA0                                                                                                                                                                                   20       l        1        0       1,
Solis  .-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~KILOMETERS
oUCEOUOIU .--                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This pP..byt~M   - U,t [The Wold Rook
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  o                                                                                                                      r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h. konore, oord Snoi-otio- o-d coy cAh-4,o(roto
LEANIA$                     ~~~~~~T UR K EY                                                                                                                                             show ooti  o  otimply. s A port ofTheWorld- GokDrop.
ooyjogmcr r te ool,rtosdoy te-itory, or coyedoeet
NOVEMBER 1996



