RESTRICTED
Report No.  PE- 1 la
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
KENYA
April Z7, 1970
Education Projects Department



CUREWCY B       YUIVAI
1 KL       20 K Shs.      a    US$2.80
US$1,000                  a    T140 K She.
1,000,000 K Shs.         =    $140,000
GL06SARY OF TERM
Primary Education - School years 1 through 7.
Junior Secondary Education - Forms I-IV, school years 8 .through 11.
Senior Secondary Education - Forms V-VI, school years 12 and 13.
K.P.E. - Kenya Preliminary Exudination
C.P.E. - Certificate of Primary Education; requisite for entry to
secondary schools
C.s.C. - Overseas Cambridge School Certificate; awarded upon successfu
completion of Junior Secondary School
H.S.C. - Cambridge Higher School Certificate; awarded upon successful
completion of Senior Secondary School
G.C.E. - General Certificate of Education; awarded to senior secondary
school leavers who pass the University of London external exam-
inations. This certificate is replacing the H.S.C. in Kenya.
F.T.C. - Farmer Training Center



K E N Y A
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSITONS  . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .
I. INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . .                                  1 . . . . . . . . . . .
First Education Project  . . . . . . . . . . . .1
The Request . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .1
Socio-economic Background  . .                            2 . . . . . . . .  2
The Education System . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3
Education Finance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          4
Capital Expenditure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          4
Recurrent Expenditures . . . . . . . . . . . . .          5
II. MANPOWER AND EDUCATION NEEDS  . . . . . . . . . . . .          6
Existing Labor Force   . . . . . . . . . . . . .          6
Manpower Requirements and Prospects  . . . . . .          6
Educational Needs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          6
III. THE PROJECT  . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         12
General    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  .  .  ..  12
Agricultural Institutes .14
Farmer Training Centers and Mobile Units . . . .         15
Primary Teacher Training Colleges . . .  . . . .         16
Secondary Teacher Training College . . . . . .           17
Cost of the Project . . . . . . . .. . . . . .           18
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT . . . . . . . . . . .         21
Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         21
Professional Services  . . . . . . . . .  . . ..         21
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . ................         21
Disbursements . . .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . .          22
V. RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  . .. .       22
APPENDIX I - The Education System
APPENDIX II - Report of the Agricultural Education Commission, 1967
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Kenya during January-February, 1969. The mission consisted of Messrs. M.
Hultin (general educator), R. E. Byron (technical educator), D. Koulourianos
(economist), K. Thint (Architect), W. van der Wal (agricultural educator),
and P. Marvin (agricultural educator consultant).






LIST OF ANNEXES AND CHARTS
ANNEXES
1.   Past and Projected Enrollment in Primary Schools, 1965-1976
2.   Past and Projected Enrollments in general, technical, agricultural
education and teacher training at secondary level, 1965-1976
3.   Supply and Demand of Primary Teachers
4.   Ministry of Education Net Expenditure
5.   Total Recurrent Education Expenditures
6.   Middle and High Level Manpower, Additional Needs and Supply, 1969-74
CHARTS
1.   Educational Administration, 1969
2.   The Structure of Education, 1969
3.   The Educational Pyramid, 1968 and 1976
4.   Primary School Enrollment, 1960-1976
5.   Enrollment in Secondary Schools and Primary Teacher Training Colleges
6.   Implementation-Expenditure - Disbursement
MAP
Location of Project Schools



K E N Y A
BASIC DATA
General
Area:                                                 224,960 square miles
Total Population:  (1969)                             10.9 million
Growth rate:                                          3.3% p.a.
Density:                                              48 per square mile
Urban Population:                                     10% of total population
Gross Domestic Product (1968) K6 at factor cost:  430.7 million
Distribution of GDP by sector: (1968)
Agriculture                                      34.8%
Commerce-Banking                                14.1%
Manufacturing                                    11.4%
Other                                            39.7%
Annual average rate of growth of GDP in real
terms (1964-68):                                6.3%
GNP per capita: (1968)                                Kb 41.8 or US$117
Central Government total revenue
(domestic sources) as % of GDP:
(1967-68)                                       18.4%
Total public sector expenditure as % of GDP:
(1967-68)                                       21.8%
Education
Population aged 6-15 (1968 estimate)                  2,839,000
Literacy rate (1968 estimate)                         30%
Primary school enrollment as percentage
of relevant age group (1968)                     65%
Secondary school enrollment as a percentage
of relevant age group (1968)                     9%
Total expenditure on education as a percentage
of GDP (1968)                                    6.3%
Education expenditure per capita (1968/69
estimate)                                        US$7.1
Expenditure on education (1967/68 estimate)
as percentage of Central Government              10.6%
expenditures
Distribution of
Student                Recurrent Expenditure on
Level of Education        Enrollment (1968)           Education (1968/69 est.)
Primary Education               91.3%                            56%
Secondary Education              8.1%                            33%
Higher Education                   .1%                            6%
Teacher Training                   .5%                            5%



K E N Y A
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Su mary and Conclusions
The major emphasis of this project is upon a much needed
expansion and improvement of the agricultural education and training svs-
tem of Kenya to make possible an increase in agricultural productivity,
the most important sector of Kenya's economy. The project would assist in
establishing or expanding agricultural institutions at professional, sub-
professional, and skilled labor Levels. It would round-out the existing
agricultural education and training system and would establish for the
first time a complete system designed to produce a properly balanced mix
of agricultural manpower. The manpower targets prescribed by the Kenya
Agricultural Education Commission, which conducted an intensive study of
the agricultural sector, could be satisfied by the output from the expanded
system recommended in this report.
ii.       The remainder of the project would reinforce and extend reform
measures initiated under the first IDA education project. This project,
IDA Credit No. 93-KE, provided US$7 million for primary teacher training
and secondary school expansion and became effective October, 1966. With
continued satisfactory progress, the project should be completed in advance
of the closing date, December 31, 1970.
Mii.      The proposed project would comprise the following:
(a) construction and equipment of academic buildings, student
hostels, and staff housing for:
- a faculty of agriculture at University College in
Nairobi,
- a new agricultural institute and extensions to two
existing institutes,
- six farmer training centers and three new mobile
training units,
- extensions to 11 primary teacher training colleges
and 8 technical secondary schools;
(b) equipment for one secondary teacher training college and
one technical institute;
(c) preparation of a comprehensive education development plan;
(d) a study to determine measures necessary to promote curri-
culum development and textbook production and distribution;
(e) technical assistance for strengthening the admin-
istration of agricultural training, development of
the faculty of agriculture, and for items (c) and (d)
above.



- ii -
iv.       Adequate numbers of qualified candidates would be available for
each project school. Teaching and administrative staff would be available
either from Kenyan institutions or from abroad under various assistance
programs.
v.        The locations of the project schools are satisfactory and sites
either have been acquired or are being acquired.
vi.       The unit responsible for supervising the first IDA education
project would be re-organized and would be assigned administrative res-
ponsibility for this project also. The Ministry of Works is expected to
design most of the buildings, assisted where necessary by consultant
architects. Contracts for equipment, furniture, and construction would
be awarded under the Association's rules governing international competi-
tive bidding. Construction would be completed near the end of 1974.
vii.      The government would be able to meet its share of the pro-
ject's capital costs. The recurrent costs are within the government's
capacity; the government has agreed to examine its projected educational
expenditures, educational priorities, and possible ways of achieving
economies.
viii.          Subject to the provisions in paragraphs 5.01 and 5.02, the
project is suitable for an IDA development credit of US$6.1 million, 66%
of the estimated total project cost of US$9.3 million. The proposed credit
would finance the estimated foreign exchange component of US$4.4 million,
72% of the credit, and US$1.7 million of local costs, 28% of the credit.



APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT IN KENYA
I. INTRODUCTION
First Education Project
1.01      IDA Credit Agreement No. 9' -KEE, signed in August 1966, provided
US$7 million to help finance an expansion of primary teacher training and
secondary education In Kenya.  Under the Credit, practical courses were
introduced into the secondary school system, previously limited to academic
subjects.  Agricuiltural education was a minor element in this first project
because the Kenya Agricultural Education Commission had not yet completed
its study of the nation's need for an expanded and improved agricultural
education system. Personnel changes in the project unit, and shortages of
specialists in the Ministry of Education created some initial difficulties
but the first education project is now progressing satisfactorily and will
be completed before the closing date, December 31, 1970.
The Request
1.02      An FAQ/Bank mission visited Kenya in September-November 1968
to assist the government in preparing a second education project based
primarily upon the findings of the Agricultural Education Commission.
The mission was also requested to identify and prepare other priority
project items.
1.03      In January-February, 1969, a mission comprising Messrs. Hultin
(general educator), R.E. Byron (technical educator), D. Koulourianos
(economist), K. Thint (architect), W. van der Wal (agricultural educator)
and P. Marvin (consultant, agricultural educator) appraised the project,
to which a large general secondary school program had been added by the
government subsequent to project preparation.
1.04      During appraisal, the general secondary school program was drop-
ped from the project because of the absence of an acceptable secondary
education development plangand the need to examine alternatives in expand-
ing the senior level of secondary education (Forms 5 and 6). In addition,
several items were removed from the project because they were considered
to have low priority, were premature, or had not been adequately prepared.
1.05      The project, as appraised, accordingly consists of:
(a)  buildings, furnishings, equipment, staff housing and
student dormitories to establish:
- a faculty of agriculture,
- one agricultural institute and extensions to
two existing institutes,
- six farmer training centers and three mobile
extension training units,
- extensions to 11 primary teacher colleges and 8
technical secondary schools;



- 2 -
(b) equipment for one secondary teacher training college and
one technical institute;
(c) the preparation of a comprehensive educational develop-
ment plan;
(d) a study to determine measures necessary to promote
curriculum development and textbook production and
development;
(e) technical assistance for strengthening the adminis-
tration of agricultural training, development of the
faculty of agriculture, and for items (c) and (d)
above.
The estimated total cost of the revised project is US$9.3 million, and the
foreign exchange component $4.4 million, 47% of the total costs.
Socio-economic Background
1.06      The population of Kenya is about 11 million and the annual growth
rate 3.3%. Average population density is 48 per square mile and, excluding
urban areas, ranges from 700 per square mile in the agricultural highlands
to one per square mile in the pastoral areas. The rural population, account-
ing for 90% of the total, is located mainly in the west around the shores
of Lake Victoria in the coastal areas and in the highlands centered around
Mount Kenya. The two main urban centers, Nairobi and Mombasa,gaccount for
60% of urban population; in addition, there are 34 centers with populations
in excess of 3,000. The uneven population distribution accentuates the
need for efficient educational planning and innovation to equalize educa-
tional opportunity and maximize the utilization of resources. Migration
from rural areas to urban centers is high (7% per annum), exacerbating
social problems in urban centers where employment opportunities have not
met expectations of migrants. Family planning is supported through the
Family Planning Association and public interest overtaxes available resources.
1.07      The average growth rate of the economy during the period 1964-68
was 6.3%, with a somewhat higher figure in 1968. The government has set
growth rate targets at about 6-1/2% for the period 1969-74 with strong em-
phasis upon the development of agriculture and related industries and tour-
ism. Foreign trade accounts for a high proportion of national income (47%),
and exports, particularly of agricultural-products, will play a dominant
role in determining the future growth rate. The agricultural sector repre-
sents 35% of GDP and is the most important sector in the economy.
1.08      The proposed project, with its emphasis upon increasing the
supply and improving the quality of professional and sub-professional
agricultural personnel, as well as up-grading the skills of farmers, is
intended to stimulate the development of the agricultural sector and
thereby assist in increasing the over-all growth rate of the economy.



- 3 -
The Education System (see also Appendix I)
1.09      The Ministry of &duc.ation (Chart 1) supervises all education in
Kenya except agricultural and in-service industrial training programs. The
Ministry has recently been reorganizzed but further reorganization is re-
quired to estae3lie-1h or strengithen divi&sions respons4ble for specialized
functions at the Minti Ly, such as planninS, curriculum development, school
construction and Lechizcal education.
1I10 IEfforts ane hDeil_g made to 11Africanize"1 the education system which
has remaieud BriLI-horiented in atruLtur4, curricula and examination stan-
dards (Chart 2).  Tihe East African Examinations Council has been established
and curricula are grz.iually being  nade more relevani to Kenya, but the plan-
ning and development of physical facilities outpaces curriculum revisions.
1.11      Overall enrollmuent in education (Annexes I and 2) has increased
rapidly since independence in 1963 and has surpassed the enrollment tar-
gets of the first 5-Year Development Plan of 1964 by 6% in primary and
80% in secondary education. At secondary level, this has caused serious
problems of staffing and maintenance of academic standards.
1.12      The qpuality of primary education, which is seven years in
duration, has been improving steadily. Repetition, particularly in high-
er grades, is still frequent but retention rates have increased from 30%
to 60% in the 1960's. The proportion of qualified teachers has risen to
73% of the total and is planned to increase to over 90% by 1974 (Annex 3).
A revised curriculum, introduced in 1967, will be modified further to
include natural sciences and basic agriculture in the primary schools as
a means of promoting rural development.
Basic Data - Primary Schools, 1968
% of Age         Teachers          Pupil-Teacher   Boys-Girls
Enrollments   Group    Number   % Qualified          Ratio           Ratio
1,210,000       65%      37,900         73%          32:1           60:40
1.13      A similar improvement at the junior secondary level has not
occurred due largely to an almost unchecked proliferation of self-help
unaided junior secondary schools (Appendix I). Since 1965, 265 new junior
secondary schools have been established, with little consideration for the
prospects for economic development of the regions in which the schools have
been located, the population distribution or the availability of transporta-
tion. Most of the new schools are too small to permit an economic use of
the specialist staff and the physical facilities that would be needed for
the new diversified curriculum. An expansion of the junior secondary school
system on the basis of the diversified curriculum introduced in the first
IDA project is desirable, but a development plan should first be formulated
and accepted by the government to regulate the growth of the junior secon-
dary system and to rationalize school sizes and locations.



-4-
1.14      Enrollments in senior secondary education have expanded by 20%
per year during 1965 to 1968 but the system has maintained an acceptable
quality and a good teaching staff, largely composed of expatriates on two
or three-year contracts. Because of the demand for more high level, science-
oriented manpower, the government has decided to further expand this level
of secondary education, with increased emphasis on science. An examination
of the possible alternatives to accomplish the desired expansion is neces-
sary to ensure that: (a) the demands of the university and post-secondary
institutions for qualified applicants are satisfactorily met on an appro-
priate geographical basis; (b) maximum economies in teaching staff and
space are realized; and (c) the junior secondary school system (Forms I-IV)
does not become unduly biased towards pre-university studies at senior
level.
Basic Data - General Secondary Education, 1968
% of Age        Teachers            Pupil-Teacher
Level        Enrollments  Group    Number  % Qualified            Ratio
Forms I-IV      98,200 )
)   8%      4,640         59%            22:1
Forms V-VI        3,200 )
Education Finance
1.15      Educational expenditures have increased in pace with the increased
enrollments at all levels (Annexes 1 and 2) and have absorbed an increasing
share of the government's income. The total budget of the Ministry of
Education was KE 10.8 million in 1968/69, about 2.5 times its size in
1964/65 (Annex 4). Total public and private recurrent education expenditures
were Kf 20.8 million and KE 23.4 million in 1967/68 and 1968/69, respectively
(Annex 5) corresponding to about 6% of GDP.
Capital Expenditure
1.16      Investment expenditure for education increased from 14.4% of total
government educational expenditures in 1965/66 to 27.5% in 1968/69. Almost
half of the capital expenditure of the Min4stry of Education was financed
in the last four years by foreign grants and loans. With financial respon-
sibility for primary schools delegated to local authorities, the government
concentrates its capital expenditure for education at secondary and post-
secondary levels. In the last two years, general secondary education ac-
counted for 56% of the total, university for 19%, teacher training for 11%
and technical education for 12% (Annex 4).
1.17      For the next five years the government intends to allocate to
education about KiE 3.0 - 3.5 million annually for capital expenditure, re-
presenting almost 12% of its total capital outlay. The distribution among
levels and types of education is expected to follow the pattern of the
last two years. The private sector's likely contribution to this type of
expenditure is not known.



-5-
Recurrent Expenditures
1.18      The recurrent expenditure of the Ministry of Education increased
from KE 4.8 million in 1965/66 to an estimated KE 7.8 million in 1968/69,
corresponding to an average growth of 17.2% per annum. This rate by far
exceeds the growth rates of GDP and of governme^at recurrent revenue, about
6.3% and 8% per year, respectively, and is due in part to the more rapid
expansion of the educacion sector as compared with other sectors. The
emphasis that the government has Deen placing upor. secondary education is
reflected by its share of the Ministry of Education's recurrent expenditures
during 1964I65 - 1968/69 (467) compared with higher education (17%) and
teacher training (16%). Technical education, despite higher recurrent costs
per unit, accounted for only 9% of the total, and administrative overhead
absorbed the balance.
1.19      It is estimated that between 1968/69 and 1974/75 total recurrent
expenditure on education will increase to KL 42 million (Annex 5) or by
79%; an average arlnual rate of 10%. Since rapid expansion in enrollment
is expected in the more expensive levels and types of education for which
the central government has almost full financial responsibility, its edu-
cation budget must increase at an even faster rate. In addition, because of
the increasing financial difficulties of local communities, the central
government is under increasing pressure to assume financial responsibility
for the unaided (Harambee) schools which are being established without
adequate control of thieir numbers (para. 1.13). There is evident need for
an educational planning model to serve as a framework for future education-
al development.
1.20      To a large extent the increase in recurrent costs is due to the
fizt that education in Kenya is an expensive service, contrasted with the
c.ountry's low per capita income and prices of other services. As in some
other African cauntries, the high recurrent costs are attributable to re-
latively high staff salaries and fringe benefits, high standards of in-
structional and living accommodation in the upper levels of the educational
system, excessive boarding at post-primary levels, and low student-teacher
ratios, especially in upper secondary and higher education. The recurrent
expenditures of the Ministry of Education cannot continue to grow at a
rate which by far exceeds the growth rate of the government revenue. The
Ministry of Education must, therefore, re-examine its educational develop-
ment targets and should increase its efforts to achieve economies consistent
with new education targets. The government has agreed to initiate studies,
without delay, to find ways of reducing costs and increasing the efficiency
of the system.



- 6 -
II. MANPOWER AND EDUCATIONAL NEEDS
Existing Labor Force
2.01      The labor force in 1967 was estimated at 3.5 million and wage
employment at close to one million. Kenya does not have an employment
service, and unemployment in the monetary sector can not be measured
accurately; it is estimated at about 100,000. Of the wage employment,
private industry and commerce account for 23%, public service 22%, and
rural employment the balance. The literacy rate at 30% of the adult popu-
lation is one measure of the quality of the labor force.
2.02      High and middle level manpower consists of 114,000 workers of
whom 46,300, or about 41%, are non-citizens. The percentage of non-citizens
is approximately 47% in the private sector and 26% in government adminis-
tration where Africanization has proceeded faster. The participation of
non-Kenyans varies from occupation to occupation, ranging from almost 90%
of arch4tects and dentists to 5% of social workers.
Manpower Requirements and Prospects
2.03      General.  Estimates of future manpower needs and supply have been
based on yet unpublished data of a recent manpower survey and compilation
of statements of requirements collected from various sources.  The Report
of the Agricultural Education Commission* (Weir Report) provides the basis
for projections of agricultural manpower needs.
2.04      To avoid adverse effects on the rate of economic development, the
government has proceeded cautiously with the replacement of non-citizens by
Kenyans. In the long run, however, a reduction in the percentage of middle
and high level positions occupied by non-citizens leading ultimately to
their complete replacement is the goal of the government. At present, in
most areas of middle and high level employment, shortages are acute, des-
pite the high proportion of expatriates, and will continue even with the pro-
jected increases in supply. These increases will be possible only with the
establishment and expansion of the educational and training institutions
described below.
Educational Needs
2.05      Agricultural Education.  The economic future of the country is
inextricably tied to the success of measures to improve the quality of
agricultural products and to reduce unit costs to competitive levels. In
view of the low educational background of Kenyan farmers, these objectives
will be difficult to achieve, and will require sizeable increases in the
number of trained agricultural personnel. The revised and expanded struc-
ture of education must quickly create the services to convey the new agri-
cultural technology to more than 7 million farmers. The Kenya Agricultural
*    Republic of Kenya, Nairobi, 1967.



- 7 -
Education Commission (Appendix II), which conducted an intensive study of
the needs of the agricultural sector for trained personnel and the various
alternatives for adapting and improving the agricultural education and
training system of Kenya to best meet these needs, recommended the esta-
blishment of: (i) a faculty of agriculture within University College,
Nairobi; (ii) one new certificate level agricultural institute and the
expansion of two others; and (iii) about 12 new farmer training centers.
2.06      University Level.  By 1980, about 80 graduate agriculturalists will
be required annually for public and private agricultural development. Pres-
ent vacancies in the Ministry of Agriculture and a high percentage (about
50%) of non-citizens in service indicate that shortages in this level of
agricultural manpower already exist. The report of the Kenyan Agricultural
Education Commission concluded that, although 870 additional university
graduates in agriculture and veterinary medicine would be needed from 1970
to 1980, only 316 were likely to be available at the present rate of out-
put, including students returning from overseas studies and Kenyan graduates
of University College, Makarere, Uganda. The faculty of agriculture at this
College, originally intended to serve Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania, graduates
about 20 Kenyans annually, but will soon reserve its enrollment to meet
Uganda's needs. The Senate of the University of East Africa agreed in 1967
that the constituent colleges of Nairobi, Makere, and Dar-es-Salaam would
become independent national universities upon expiration of the present
agreement in 1970. Because of the uncertainties resulting from dependence
upon foreign institutions for an adequate supply of badly needed agronomists,
and the inherent advantages in educating its degree level personnel in an
institution with curricula, practical work, and research activities attuned
to the Kenyan agricultural environment, the government has decided to esta-
blish a faculty of agriculture within University College, Nairobi.
2.07      Middle-Level.  Middle level agricultural manpower is trained in
Kenya at diploma and certificate levels. The capacity of Egerton College,
the only diploma level institution in Kenya, is sufficient to meet the fu-
ture demand for diploma holders, but specIal efforts will be needed to in-
crease the output of certificate holders to meet the estimated demand of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The Weir Report estimated the demand for agricul-
tural certificate personnel during 1970-80 to be 3,480, compared with the
present combined annual output of 170 from the existing two institutes.
To meet the estimated future needs, an expansion of the institutes is neces-
sary as shown below:
Enrollments                        Outputs
Present   New   Total            Present   New    Total
Embu             160       90    250                70      30      100
A.H.I.T.I.*      250       60    310              100       30      130
New Institute    -        250    250               -       100      100
Total     410      400    810               170      160     330
*    Animal Health and Industry Training Institute.



- 8 -
Limited and unsuitable farmland constitutes a constraint to a further ex-
pansion of the Embu Institute beyond that proposed above. A new institute
to be located in the Western Province, a densely populated area with good
development potential and with ecological conditions which require a type
of farming different from the rest of; Kenya. At present, no agricultural
training center exists in Western Kenya. An agricultural institute in this
region, properly equipped and provided with sufficient school farm land,
could demonstrate to extension workers and farmers alike the possibilities
of agriculture under the prevailing climatic and soil conditions.
2.08      Farmer Training.  To provide training in modern agriculture and
home economics, 30 Farmer Training Centers (F.T.C.) have been established
and at present are serving an area with about six million inhabitants.
The training centers provide courses of one to two weeks' duration in
improved farming techniques to farmers and their wives and are scheduled
in accordance with seasonal demands. In addition, they are important centers
for the in-service training of extension workers and farm leaders. The capa-
city of the centers ranges from 20 to 106 trainees per course. The FTC's
also serve as centers for young farmer clubs and informal rural educational
activities. In regions with sparse and scattered population, mobile units
are employed to carry the instruction to remote meeting places.
2.09      The Farmer Training Centers have proven to be a successful means
of up-grading the skills of the farmers and, consequently, the government
proposes to expand their number so that each of the country's 41 districts
may be served either by an FTC or a mobile unit. Because of the need to
increase farm productivity, this is a commendable objective, but only as a
first target. After suitable geographical distribution has been achieved,
a further expansion would be desirable in order to reduce the number of
inhabitants served by each FTC.
Division of Training, Ministry of Agriculture
2.10      Agricultural training below diploma level is the direct responsi-
bility of the Ministry of Agriculture. At present, only one officer has
been appointed to administer the existing agricultural institutes, farmer
training centers, and in-service extension training. With the expansion
of the programs required by the agricultural development of the country and
with total annual recurrent costs of agricultural training expected to
reach about US$1.6 million equivalent wvithin about five years, increased
supervision within the Ministry of Agriculture will be required. The govern-
ment recognizes the need for setting up a division within the Ministry of
Agriculture which will be responsible for planning, organizing, and super-
vising all training within the Ministry and for providing liaison with agri-
cultural education and training institutions outside the Ministry. The
division will have to be adequately staffed with specialists in planning,
curriculum development, teaching methods, and inspection. During negotia-
tions, the government agreed to establish an organizational structure appro-



priate to the division's functions, and to provide the division with adequate
numbers of qualified staff within one year of the Credit Agreement signing.
During its initial two yeai, the division would be assisted by a qualified
specialist 1n organizatioa anc; administration of agricultural training.
Primary Teacher Trainir.
2.11      Primary education is to be rmada available to about 75% of the
primary school age group in 1974, compared with 65% in 1968; this corre-
sponds to an incercare in enrollment from 1,210,000 in 1968 to 1,750,000
in 1974, which is reasonable. The additional enrollment would require an
annual supply of 2,900 teachers for new posts and replacements, and imply
an increase of the total teaching staff from 38,000 to 50,000. Planned
expansion of the primary teacher training colleges would increase the out-
put f-rom 2,400 graduates in 1968 to 3,400 in 1974 (Annex 3). In addition,
an avrerage of 1,100 unqualified teachers would be upgraded each year. Eight
of the existing 24 colleges, in buildings unsuitable for modern diversified
teacher training, cannot be expanded economically and should be phased out.
It has been decided to increase the combined capacity of the remaining
colleges from 5,750 in 1968 to 7,400 by increasing class sizes from 25
to 30, by more intensive use of hostels and dining facilities and by new
construction. Eleven colleges which are located in areas with prospects
for development should expand to accommodate 500 to 700 students each,
depending upon the population of the catchment area. The majority of these
colleges were included in the first IDA project and are considered suitable
for expansion. They must be provided with additional buildings for admin-
istration and tuition and, in some cases, dormitories and staff housing.
The teaching facilities would comprise classrooms, laboratories and work-
shops in arts, crafts, home economics and agriculture, subjects which will
be given increased emphasis in the reformed primary education.
Secondary Teacher Training
2.12      A further expansion of secondary teacher training (Appendix I)
is projected to keep pace with the expanding secondary school system. The
university will produce 150 graduate teachers a year in the 1970's for
Junior and senior secondary levels. The four post-secondary colleges will
expand to produce 600 diploma teachers annually in academic and practical
subjects for junior secondary schools. The projected supply would be
sufficient to meet the demand for qualified teachers in all government-
supported schools, which are expected to increase their enrollment from
68,000 in 1968 to 113,000 in 1974; a gradual replacement of expatriate
teachers would then be possible. The supply would not be sufficient, how-
ever, to improve the teacher situation in the unaided schools if their
enrollments increase to 94,000 as is estimated. The acute teacher shortage
in the unaided schools will be reduced after the requirements of supported
schools have been satisfied in the mid-1970's. Some teaching equipment is
necessary at Kenyatta College but otherwise the teacher training institution
would be able to implement their programs if further bilateral aid were pro-
vided in accordance with existing plans.



- 10 -
Technical Education
2.13      Informal reports of employers show a demand for technical school
leavers that far exceeds the supply. Expected growth of the industrial
sector at a rate of about 6% p.a. and the expected departure of many non-
citizens, a high proportion of whom are technically trained, will further
increase the demand. At present, only about 30% of the candidates for
admission can be accepted. The number of places in secondary technical
education including technical, trade and business schools is planned to
increase from 4,500 to 8,800 by 1974, but will only partially alleviate
the shortage; further expansion is not advisable because of administrative
constraints and lack of qualified technical teachers. The planned increase
in technical secondary school enrollment is part of a larger program to re-
structure technical education at secondary level and would effect a wider
adoption of the reformed curriculum which is being introduced in this type
of school. Under a new curriculum, trade programs are being phased out in
favor of pre-vocational and pre-technical programs designed to ease progres-
sion to the next level of education and to improve vertical and horizontal
mobility in employment.  This curriculum, assisted under the first IDA pro-
ject, has gained acceptance by industry and students alike.
2.14      Post-secondary technical training is conducted in Kenya Polytech-
nic, Nairobi, and in Mombasa Technical Institute. For the most part, the
programs are organized through arrangement with employers. Because almost
all students in these courses are employed, the emphasis is on upgrading.
As the coastal area served by the Mombasa Technical Institute continues
to grow industrially, an expansion of the institute probably will be
required. For the present, however, the institute has sufficient teaching
space but is in need of additional instructional equipment required for
proper demonstration and student practice in laboratories and workshops.
Ministry of Education Reorganization
2.15      The present organization of the Ministry needs to be strengthened
in order to provide more effective supervision and stimulus to the develop-
ment of the following specialized functions of the Ministry. During nego-
tiations, the government agreed to take the following remedial measures:
Planning: Due to a shortage of experienced staff, educatIonal
planning is conducted on an ad hoc basis, despite the urgency
for a development plan for secondary education (paras 1.13 and
1.14).  The Division of Planning within the Ministry will be
reorganized and strengthened to enable it to plan the rational
development of all levels and types of education for which the
Ministry is responsible. The senior officers will include an
educational planner, a social demographer and an educational
economist.  These posts would be filled under technical assist-
ance provisions, if necessary, in order to expedite the prepara-
tion of a comprehensive education development plan.



- 11 -
Introduction of new curricula and teaching methods: Tea2hing
methods in Kenya have been traditional and until recently have
been unaffected by the activities of the curriculum development
center. In addition, new media such as school radio and in-
structional television have been introduced on a modest scale
but have not gained wide acceptance. The Kenya Institute of
Education within the Ministry should be responsible for provid-
ing leadership in these new areas.  Tha government has agreed
to place the Instltute directlyj ;.nder the Chief Education
Officer so that its recommendations will carry due weight.
Moreover, a feasibility study will be initiated within six
months of the Credit Agreement signing, to determine the meas-
ures necessary to develop, evaluate, and promote new curricula,
together with the associated production and distribution of new
textbooks.
School Construction: A separate division responsible for
standards of construction and space accommodations could
effect economies. Some cost reduction measures implying
higher utilization of school facilities were decided upon
some time ago but have been implemented slowly because of
insufficient supervision. Such a division will be esta-
blished and adequately staffed within 12 months of credit
agreement.
Technical Education:   A division responsible for technical
education will be strengthened in order to provide sufficient
attention to the development of technical education, which
has not kept pace with overall development of education in
Kenya. As part of the expansion of this division, a qualified
Kenyan counterpart to the chief of the division will be appointed
within 12 months of the Credit Agreement signing.
2.16      The Ministry can execute the above organizational changes without
external assistance except for the formulation of an education development
plan and the feasibility study of curriculum development and textbook pro-
duction.
Summary
2.17      A qualitative improvement and quantitative increase in the educa-
tion system of Kenya is necessary to provide the personnel required to meet
identified manpower shortages.  Extensive planning in conjunction with a
feasibility study of curriculum reform is required prior to expansion of
general and technical secondary education, but the primary and secondary
teacher training systems should be expanded now to keep pace with expected
increases in school enrollments and to reduce the percentage of unqualified
teachers.  To meet the manpower targets established by the Kenya Agricultural
Education Commission, the agricultural education and training system should
be rounded out to provide trained agricultural personnel at all levels.
The proposed project would finance the technical assistance required for the
development of the needed education plan and the feasibility study of curri-
culum development and, in addition, would make possible the required expan-
sion of the agricultural and teacher training systems.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
General
3.01      The project includes the financing of:
- construction and equipment of new institutions
and extensions to existing institutions as listed
below;
- preparation of a comprehensive educational develop-
ment plan;
- a feasibility study of curriculum development and
textbook production;
- technical assistance; and
- establishment of a project implementation unit.
The estimated cost is $9.3 million.
Planned
Type of                         Enrollments         Boarding       Staff
Institution               Number   New   Total      Accommodation Housing Units
(Students)
University Faculty
of Agriculture              1       300     300           280             23
Agriculture Institutes
-    New               1      250      250          250             13
-    Extensions        2      150      560           -               1
Farmer Training
Centers 1/                  6       360     360           360            69
Farmer Training
Mobile Units                3        -       -              -             -
Primary Teacher
College - Extensions       11    2,880   5,640         1,230             47
Secondary Technical
School - Extensions         8    1,700   3,900            520            19
Secondary Teacher
College - Equipment         1       0    1,600             -             -
Technical Institute
- Equipment            1       0      620            -              -
Totals                 5,640  13,230         2,640            172
1/   Figures for F.T.C.'s show daily capacities only.  An estimated 1,200
persons per annum will attend courses of an average two weeks' duration
at each F.T.C.



- 13 -
3.02      The institutions to be assisted under the proposed project would
have a total capacity of 13,230 student places, of which 5,640 would be
new.  Provision for studeutt boarding and staff housing amounting to 22% of
the total project cost is necessary because of the regional or national
nature of all institutions involved and the unavailability of adequate
housing. The schedule of accommodations, with a use factor varying from
80% to 96%, is econo-mical.
3.03      Faculty of Agriculture.  the Faculty of Agriculture would be
established within the University College, Nairobi, and would offer instruc-
tion in a three year program in crop production and animal production lead-
ing to a Bachelor of Science degree. The Faculty would enroll its first
class (50 students) In 1970/71 and would have a total enrollment of 300
when fully operative. Expected output would be about 80 per year by 1980.
Since Kenya now has only a diploma level college and two certificate level
institutes, the establishment of the Faculty of Agriculture and the proposed
expansion at certificate level described below would provide Kenya with a
complete agricultural education and training system in accordance with needs
and with a proper balance of degree, diploma, and certificate level agri-
cultural programs.
3.04      All first-year students would attend classes at the main campus
of University College in Nairobi. This arrangement would enable the new
agricultural courses to be started economically and would result in more
intensive use of some specialized teaching areas in the university. In
addition, students in the first year of the agricultural faculty would
benefit from the broader cultural environment of the university and the
academic strength of existing science courses. The final two years of
instruction would allocate about 25% of the students' time to practical
work and would be offered at Kabete, seven miles from the university,
where 600 acres are available for practice farming and research.
3.05      The project would provide the buildings and equipment required
at Kabete and some additional buildings and equipment at the main campus.
A number of bilateral agencies and a U. S. foundation are interested in
assisting the development of the Faculty of Agriculture and are considering
providing staff and overseas training of Kenyan counterparts. During the
initial years, administrative officers, planners, and about 70% of the
teaching staff would have to be brought from abroad. Because the magnitude
and character of external assistance has not yet been sufficiently deter-
mined, the project would provide four man-years of technical assistance, as
a reserve, to ensure that any required expertise in planning and administra-
tion would be available during the faculty's initial years.
3.06      A staff recruitment plan has been prepared and is acceptable to
the Association. The expatriate staff prescribed in the plan probably will
be provided by bilateral agencies, but to ensure that all teaching positions
will be filled on schedule, the government has agreed to employ the required
teachers under contract, if necessary. In addition, the government has
agreed to prepare a staff development plan which would program the measures



- 14 -
required to provide a Kenyan teaching staff. The staff development plan,
agreeable to the AssociAtion and with assurances that the government would
implement the plan, would be completed within six months after the signing
of the Credit.
3.07      With the accommodations that would be financed under this project
and with the level of guidance to be provided by the expatriate specialists
and the interested assistance agencies, the Faculty of Agriculture is ex-
pected to develop into a major force in the modernization of Kenyan agri-
culture.
Agricultural Institutes
3.08      To assist in meeting the demand for certificate level agricultural
personnel (Para. 2.07), the project would:
(i) provide additional teaching and boarding accommodations
and modern instructional equipment which would enable the
two existing agricultural institutes at Embu and Kabete
to increase their enrollments by 90 and 60 students,
respectively, and to improve the quality of their training
programs; and
(ii)  establish a new agricultural institute in the Western Provincewith
an enrollment of 250 students to provide instruction re-
levant to the ecological conditions prevailing in the
western region of Kenya (Para. 2.07).
The institutes at Embu and Kabete (Animal Health and Industry Training
Institute) are located in the central region of Kenya and provide instruc-
tion compatible with agricultural conditions in that region. The Embu
Institute offers courses in general agriculture and home economics, and the
Kabete Institute teaches animal health and range management. As the basic
objective of these institutes is to provide qualified middle-level personnel
to the extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture, the curricula of
the two-year programs are heavily oriented towards practical subjects, and
approximately 40% of the students' time is spent in practical work. The
curricula have recently been modified in accordance with the recommendations
of FAO specialists and are satisfactory for this type of institution. Both
existing institutes have adequate acreage for practice farming and demon-
strations; the new institute at Kakamega would have 500 acres, which are
ample.
3.09      The standards for awarding certificates upon completion of the
courses have been determined by each institute and have resulted in some
uncertainties regarding quality. With the expansion of this level of train-
ing to comprise three institutes with a combined enrollment of 810 students
- and with further expansion likely - national certificates should replace
the institutes' certificates and should be awarded on the basis of recom-
mendations by a National Certificate Examinations Board. The government



- 15 -
has agreed to establish this board within the Division of Training of the
Ministry of Agriculture with representation from each institute and appro-
priate departments of the Mt . Ltry of Agriculture to formulate uniform
standards for the agricultural1 institutes. This board would also be res-
ponsible for ernsuring that the contLnt of the training programs is conti-
nuously up-dated and made responsive to the actual demands for certificate
level personniel.
3.10      As candida-es are admitted upon completion of Form IV and second-
arv educat on u? Lo this level has greatly inicreased during recernt years,
adequate numbers of qualified candidates should be available. "'o accom-
modate tne proposed iacreased enrollment, approximately 30 additional
teachers would be requ-Ired over the next four years. About 40% of this
number could be provided without difficulty from the Faculty of Veterinary
Science at University College, Nairobi, and the balance would be provided
by various external aid agencies.
Farmer TraininR Centers and Mobile Units
3.11      This project item would comprise six farmer training centers and
three new mobil e units to extend the coverage of basic agricultural instruc-
tion into the regions not reached at present by the existing farmer training
centers or mobile units (Paras. 2.08 and 2.09). Each farmer training cen-
ter would consist of two classrooms, a library, a farm workshop, a school
farm, and a hostel for 60 students. Each center would provide one to three
weeks' courses in improved agricultural techniques to farmers and their
wives. Trainees would be recruited by regional extension field workers and
would be provided with boarding at nominal charge while at the center. No
difficulty is expected in operating the centers at capacity because the
population in each of the six districts in which the centers would be
located ranges from 71,000 to 260,000, and experience with the existing
centers indicates that the farmers are receptive to the program. Each
course would emphasize practical farming skills and would allocate about
80% of the instruction time to field demonstrations. In addition, three
weeks in-service refresher courses would be offered to the lower cadres of
field advisory staff. With a capacity of 60 and an average of 20 courses
per year, the six centers would provide training to 7200 farmers annually.
3.12      Most existing centers have farms larger than necessary for dem-
onstration purposes and must farm the excess land for the financial support
of the centers. In many instances, the burden of managing the farm has
adversely affected the principals' attention to the teaching responsibilities
of the centers. During negotiations, the government has agreed to relieve
the principals and the teaching staff from the burden of managing farm
lands in excess of training requirements.
3.13      To improve liaison with farmers and extension workers in each
district, the government has agreed to establish local advisory committees
for each farmer training center, consisting of the District Commissioner,
District Agriculture Officer, representatives of cooperatives, local leaders,
and the center's principal. The committees will also advise on curriculum
development and program scheduling.



- 16 -
3.14      Three mobile units would be provided to carry instruction in
animal production into the remote and sparsely populated pastoral areas
in the eastern and northern parts of the country. Each unit would consist
of a truck, equipped with films, other audio-visual teaching aids, and a
tent in which lectures and demonstrations would be given. Courses would
be usually two or three days in duration at locations accessible to suf-
ficient numbers of farmers.
Primary Teacher Training Colleges
3.15      The project would enable 11 primary teacher training colleges:
(i) to increase their enrollments from an average of 250 students each to
a more economical size of 500 to 700 each; and (ii) to more effectively
prepare teachers to teach the reformed primary school curriculum (para. 2.11).
The proposed expansion would make possible a reduction in the percentage of
unqualified primary school teachers from the current level of 27% (para. 1.12)
to 9% in the mid-1970's. The planned rationalization of the primary teacher
training system would eliminate additional small inefficient colleges and
would ensure that the output of the system would correspond to continuing
demands thereafter.
3.16      An adequate supply of qualified candidates is assured for admis-
sion into programs at three different levels - upon completion of primary
school, Form 2, and Form 4. No difficulty is anticipated in recruiting
the additional teaching staff required from among graduates of the Kenya
Science Teacher Training College, Kenyatta College, and the Faculty of
Education in University College, Nairobi.
3.17      Technical Secondary Education.  As part of the comprehensive re-
form of technical secondary education which was assisted under the first
IDA education project (para. 2.13), the project would provide additional
classrooms, laboratories, workshops and residential accommodations to enable
eight technical secondary schools to increase their combined enrollment from
2200 to 3900 students. When completed, the eight schools, located in centers
of population with high growth potential, would represent about 90% of tech-
nical secondary school enrollment.
3.18      The reformed curriculum provides a broader education than pre-
viously possible and is well balanced between academic and technical sub-
jects. Upon completion of the second year, students elect either a one or
a two year pre-craft course leading to possible apprenticeship training or
a two year pre-technician course leading to either employment or studies
at university or polytechnic level. In each of the four years, practical
subjects constitute 40% of instruction time, and 60% during the two year
pre-craft course.
3.19      An adequate supply of qualified candidates for admission exists
(Para. 2.13), but ,an expansion of technical teacher training will be neces-
sary in order to provide the additional technical teachers required by the



- 17 -
project, approximately 24 per year beginning in 1973. A four year technical
teacher training program initiated at the Kenya Polytechnic Institute in
1967 with bilateral assist2a.ce has aot produced any teachers thus far and
has only 38 trainees at presenr. T.f supported with sufficient bursaries,
the program could graduate 30 per year beginning in 1974. Even if this
output were achieved, the proportion which would be employed in the project
schools is not known,, aad a shortage of qualiiied Kenyan technical te.achers
therefore is not un1ikUv.  The government has agreed to recruit, either
through bilateral or z,%altilateral. assistance programs or under contract,
sufficient numbers of qualiiied technical teachers from abroad to equal
whatever shortfal' in qualified Kenyan technical teachers may develop in
the project technical secondary schools.
Secondary Teacher Training College
3.20      This item would provide US$80,000 equivalent of badly needed
science equipment and teaching aids to the Kenyatta Secondary Teacher Train-
ing College. The college, a government owned and operated institution with
an enrollment of approximately 600 students, is located in a former military
camp near Nairobi and has adequate academic and residential buildings.
Ultimate enrollment is planned to be 1,600 students. It is one of the four
institutions 1/ on which the burgeoning secondary school system must depend
for a satisfactory supply of qualified teachers. A much needed qualitative
improvement is dependent upon the availability of modern science teaching
equipment and the introduction of effective teaching aids.
3.21      Technical Institute.  The Mombasa Technical Institute, which was
provided with dormitories and classrooms under the first IDA education pro-
ject, was proposed by the government for conversion into a polytechnic insti-
tute. In the absence of a development plan, this expansion would be pre-
mature. Additional instructional equipment to improve the quality of ex-
isting programs and a renovation of electrical circuits in some workshops
to permit full utilization of available equipment are needed so urgently,
however, that US$80,000 equivalent is included within the project for these
purposes.
3.22      Technical Assistance.  The project would include the cost of the
following technical assistance items which would be programmed in agreement
with the Association:
(a) Two man-years for the organization and staffing of the
Training Division of the Ministry of Agriculture (Para. 2.10);
(b) Two man-years to provide guidance in the establishment of
the new agricultural institute in the Western Province and
the expansion of the Embu institute (Para. 3.08);
1/   The others are the Kenya Science Teacher Training College, the Faculty
of Education, University College, and the Kenya Polytechnic.



- 18 -
(c)  Two man-years each for an education planner and a social
demographer and one man-year for an educational economist
to assist in preparing a comprehensive education development
plan (Para. 2.16);
(d)  Four man-years to provide guidance in planning or administration
to the Faculty of Agriculture, in the event that such assistance
is not provided by external aid. (Para. 3.05)
(e)  Consultant services, as required, to conduct a feasibility
study to determine the measures which would be necessary,
together with their associated costs and tentative timetable,
in order to revise primary and secondary school curricula
and develop textbook production. A sum of US$250,000 would
be provided for this study.
Cost of the Project
3.23      The estimated capital costs and foreign exchange component of the
various parts of the project are summarized below:
K Sh (millions)        US$ (millions)   % of
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Total
1. Faculty of Agriculture    7.21   6.71   13.92   1.01  0.94    1.95  21%
2. Agriculture Institutes    4.37   3.27    7.64   0.61  0.46    1.07  11%
3. Farmer Training Centers   4.51   2.70    7.21   0.63  0.38    1.01  11%
4. Primary Teacher Colleges  9.27   5.73   15.00   1.30  0.80    2.10  22%
5. Secondary Technical
Schools                   3.43   4.00    7.43   0.48  0.56    1.04  12%
6. Secondary Teacher
Training College           -      0.57    0.57    -    0.08    0.08   1%
7. Technical Institute         -      0.57    0.57    -    0.08    0.08   1%
8. Technical Assistance       1.35   3.21    4.56   0.14  0.45    0.64   7%
9. Project Administration    1.08   1.99    3.07   0.15  0.28    0.43   5%
10. Contingencies              3.72   2.35    6.07   0.52  0.33    0.85   9%
Total               34.94  31.10   66.04   4.89  4.36    9.25 lOOZ
m    -O=   WAN==                    _



- 19 -
3.24      The costs by various types of expenditure would be as follows:
K Sh (millions)        US$ (millions)   % of
1.   Construction               Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Total
Academic & Communal
facilities              10.07   4.35   14.42   1.41  0.61   2M02  22%
Boarding facilities        6.22   2.64    8.86   0.87  0.37   1.24  13%
Staff houses               4.93   2.07    7.00   0.69  0.29   0.98  11%
Site development            3.71   1.57    5.28   0.52  0.22   3.74   8%
Professional fees          0.86   1.64    2.50   0.12  0.23   0.35   4%
Sub-total            25.79  12.27   38.06   3.61  1.72   5.33  58%
2.   Furniture                   2.50   1.07    3.57  035  0.15   0.50   5%
3.   Equipment and Books         0.50  10.21   10.71   0.07  1.43   1.50  16%
4.   TechnCcal Assistance        1.35   3.21    4.56   0.19  0.45   0.64   7%
5.   ProJect Administration    1.08   1.99    3.07   0.15  0.28   0.43   5%
6.   Contingencies               3.72   2.35    6.07   0.52  0.33   0.85   9%
Total                34.94  31.10   66.04   4.89  4.36   9.25 100%
3.25      The foreign exchange component of US$4.4 million equivalent, re-
presenting 47% of total project costs, has been calculated as follows:  (i)
building and site development, 30%; (ii) furniture, 30%; (iii) professional
fees and administration, 65%; (iv) technical assistance, 70%; and (v) equip-
ment, 95%. An IDA Credit of US$6.1 million equivalent would cover the
foreign exchange costs, 72% of the credit, and finance US$1.7 million equiv-
alent of local currency costs, 28% of the credit.
3.26      The Government of Kenya has selected all school sites, which are
satisfactory, and would provide them without cost to the project. Suffi-
cien.t land is available for the schools requiring expansion. To avoid
delays in the start of construction of the new schools, the government has
given assurances that it would promptly take all requisite steps for the
acquisition of the required lands and shall ensure that such lands would
be available immediately as needed for construction.
3.27      Construction cost estimates have been derived from the cost of
buildings in the first education project and recent building costs in the
Nairobi area, with adjustments for regional differences. From 1963 to
1967, the construction industry expanded at an average rate of 15.5% per
year and construction costs increased approximately 14% per year. During
the last two years, the growth rate of construction has levelled off to



- 20 -
about 8% per year, with a rise in construction costs of about 5%. As the
increase in costs can be expected to continue, current unit construction
costs have been increased by 11% in the above estimated costs to cover the
anticipated rise in building costs during the construction period. A 15%
contingency allowance has also been included for construction which is
reasonable in view of the high proportion of extension work. For furniture,
a contingency allowance of 7% has been included to cover increases in labor
and materials costs. The overall average provision for contingencies is
9%.
3.28      Preliminary equipment lists have been reviewed, and the revised
lists are now reasonable in scale and estimated costs. These costs have
been increased by 7% to cover price increases and possible up-dating of
the lists.
3.29      Estimated unit costs (excluding professional fees and contingen-
cies) for the new project schools, as shown below, are reasonable for each
level of education. The relatively low building unit costs for agricultural
institutes and FTC's is due to their more austere standards of accommodation
and the lower cost of labor in rural areas.
New Schools' Unit Costs (US dollars)
Site     Build-  Furni-   Equip-
Cost CategorY         Unit   Development  ing       ture     ment      Total
1. Academic and Communal
Agricultural      Student      167       670      78       378     1,293
Institute       Place
Farmer Training   Student       95       529      60       266       950
Center          Place
2. Boarding
Agricultural      Boarding      70       280      52        -        402
Institute       Place
Farmer Training   Boarding      54       296      44        -        394
Place
3. Staff Housing
(Average)
Agricultural      Staff      1,225     5,106    226         -      6,557
Institute       House
Farmer Training   Staff        875     4,378    176         -      5,429
Center          House



- 21 -
3.30      Because of the differences in the level and length of training
provided in the project agricultural institutes and other Bank/1 DA financed
agricultural schools, costs per student place are not strictly comparable.
Consequently, the following costs, indicative of these differences, provide
only a rough measure of comparison --- $1,290 per student place in the
project agricultural institutes (grades 12 and 13) versus $850 in the IDA
financed Malaysian agricultural schools (grades 10-12) and $3,070 in the
IDA financed Sudaniese agricultural iaszitutes (grades 13-15).  As the falm-
er training centerv  would be the first to be financed by the Bank/IDA, a
comparison or' their costs is not possible.
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Administration
4.01      At the present, the project unit responsible for the execution
of the first IDA education project consists of staff assigned by the
Ministries of Education and Works. This unit would be reorganized and
established within the Ministry of Education to provide the Ministry of
Education with sufficient influence over the unit's activities. The re-
organized unit would then be assigned responsibility also for the imple-
mentation of the proposed project. It would include, on a full-time
basis, the following staff: (a) a Project Director, an architect, an
educator, and (b) an equipment specialist and an accountant. The officers
under (a) would be appointed within three months of the Credit Agreement
date and those under (b) within six months of the Credit Agreement date;
all would be acceptable to the Association. The project unit would be
provided with adequate supporting staff and other facilities. The opera-
tional expenditures of the project unit and salaries of the principal
officers described above are included within the total project cost.
4.02      To improve the effectiveness of the project unit, the government
has agreed that (i) the Project Director would report directly to the Per-
manent Secretary of the Ministry of Education and (ii) the Project Account-
ant would have overall supervision of all project accounts, including the
responsibility for authorizing payments.
Professional Services
4.03      The Ministry of Education would employ the services of the
Ministry of Works for the design and supervision of the project schools and,
as necessary, consultant architectural firms acceptable to the Association.
Procurement
t
4.04      Contracts for the supply of equipment and furniture and for
construction would be awarded under international competitive bidding. As
in the first project: (a) items would be grouped to the extent practicable



- 22 -
to form sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk procurement; and (b) pro-
cedures for prequalification Df civil work contractors would be acceptable
to the Association. It is unlikely, however, that many foreign firms would
submit bids, except for equipment, since Kenya has a well-developed furni-
ture manufacturing industry and a highly competitive construction industry.
Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a pre-
ferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. costs of competing imports or the
existing rate of duty, whichever is lower.
Disbursements
4.05      The Association would disburse 100% of the CIF cost of imported
equipment, the foreign exchange component of technical assistance and 59%
of the remaining costs. In case of change in the total cost of the project,
the percentage would be adjusted at the Association's option in order to
spread the disbursement throughout the construction period (Chart 6) and to
ensure that the total disbursement would equal US$6.1 million or 66% of the
actual total project cost, whichever is less. Undisbursed funds would be
available for other priority items closely related to the project.
V.  RECOMKENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, the government confirmed that it would:
(a) initiate studies without delay to determine methods for reducing educational
costs; (b) establish a section responsible for school construction standards;
and (c) establish a National Certificate Examinations Board to administer the
awarding of national certificates in agriculture (paras 1.20, 2.15, and 3.09).
5.02      In addition, the government provided assurances that:
(a) The Division of Planning within the Ministry of Education
would be reorganized and strengthened to enable it to plan
the rational development of all levels and types of edu-
cation for which the Ministry is reponsible (para. 2.15).
(b) A staff development plan to provide a Kenyan teaching
staff for the Faculty of Agriculture, agreeable to the
Association and with assurances that the government would
implement the plan, would be completed within six months
after the Credit Agreement signing (para. 3.06).
(c) A project unit would be established in the Ministry of
Education to supervise the implementation of this project
and also the completion of the first project (Credit
No. 93KE). The following specialists, agreeable to the
Association, would be appointed on a full-time basis to



- 23 -
the project unit: a project director, an architect and
and educator, within three months of the Credit Agree-
ment signing; and an equipment specialist and an account-
ant within six months of the Credit Agreement signing
(para. 4.01).
5.03      Subject to the assurances and fulfillment of conditions described
in paras. 5.01 and 5.02, the project wouLd provide a satisfactory basis
for development credit of US$6.1 million equivalent, 66% of the estimated
total project cost of US$9.3 million equivalent.






APPENDIX I
THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Legislation
1.        Three major acts govern education in Kenya:
(a) The Education Act, which nrovides legislation for
public and non-nublic schools, defines the role of
central and local education authorities and school
boards, sets the rules for inspection, examination
and school financing;
(b) The Teachers Service Commission Act;
(c) The Higher Education Loans Fund Act, which deals
with grants and loans to students in higher
education.
Administration
2.       'fhe organization of the Ministry of Education is shown in
Chart 1 which also shows the regional administration and the structure of
administration for primary schools, secondary schools and post-secondary
institutes. The Ministry also administers grants to University College,
Nairobi, but otherwise has no authority over the Univeristy.
3.        The Ministry has an inspectorate responsible for school super-
vision and examinations. Technical education, teacher training and general
education development is handled by a planning department, which is short
of staff and burdened with routine work. Higher education, administration,
personnel and financing are handled by a department under the Deputy
Secretary of Education. The semi-autonomous Kenya Institute of Education
is responsible for curriculum development and the coordination of educa-
tion research, preparation of education materials and teacher training.
It reports to the Inspectorate, and proposes changes in curricula and
teaching methods. There has been much emphasis in the past on general
education in Kenya and this is reflected in the Ministry, where the tech-
nical education division has not been adequately staffed. School con-
struction rests with the Ministry of Works.
4.        The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for vocational
agricultural education in Kenya and has an education division to administer
farmer training centers and agricultural institutes.
Primary Education
5.        Primary education in Kenya comPrises seven years and terminates
in a common examination for all primary schools -- The Kenya Preliminary
Examination, which is a prerequisite to secondary school entrance.



APPENDIX I
Page 2
6.        Local authorities are responsible for primary schools and pay
teachers, supply equipment and, in urban areas, build the schools. In
rural areas parents build the schools as part of self-help schemes. Almost
all primary schools are day schools and co-educational.
7.        Enrollment in primary education (Annex 1) has increased from
1,042,000 in 1965 to 1,210,000 in 1968 and is projected to be 1,931,000
in 1976. The enrollment as percentage of the appropriate age group was
61% in 1965, 65% in 1968 and will be 80% in 1976, which is a reasonable
increase towards full literacy in Kenya. The enrollment increase is close
to the projection of the current 5-year Plan (1964-1969) and only 6% above
target. Dropout rates have been high but retention rates have now increased
to 60% from 30% in the early 1960's. The repetition rate is still high in
standards 6 and 7 (Education Pyramid - Chart 3). Many students repeat
voluntarily, striving to raise their grades while awaiting places in secon-
dary schools. Class sizes vary from 30 to 50.
8.        A new curriculum for primary education was adopted in 1967 with
increased emphasis on natural sciences and practical subjects. The verna-
cular is the teaching language in the lower standards and English is taught
as a subject. Much effort is now being directed to the improvement of
English which is Kenya's official language and the teaching medium in
secondary and higher education.
9.        It has been possible to improve the quality of the primary
teachers gradually since the expansion of primary education has been close
to planned estimates.  In 1965, 65% of the teachers were qualified, the
rate was 75% in 1968 and is expected to be over 90% by the mid-1970's. The
current teaching stock is 37,900.
Secondary Education
10.       Students who complete primary education may proceed to 4 or 6
years of general secondary education, 3, 4 or 6 years of technical-agricul-
tural education, or to primary teacher training. There are also opportuni-
ties for students to take up teacher training or vocational education after
2 or 4 years of general secondary education.
11.       There are three types of secondary schools:  maintained schools
which are completely financed with Government funds; assisted schools which
receive the major nart of their financing from the government and the re-
mainder from voluntary agencies; unaided schools which receive no government
financing assistance.  The maintained schools are run by Boards of Governors
and therefore enjoy a certain degree of autonomy as do assisted and unaided
schools.
12.       Enrollment in secondary education (Annex 2) increased from 56,300
in 1965 to 112,200 in 1968 and is expected to be 243,000 in 1976. About 4%
of the appropriate age group received secondary education in 1965. In 1968
the percentage was 9% and it will be about 15% in 1976. Expansion in the
late 1960's has been considerably faster than was expected, 30% per year



APPENDIX I
P.age 3
as against the projected 12%. This is particularly true for general secon-
dary education with a 1968 enrollment 80% higher than originally projected.
The rapid growth is caused mainly by the uncontrolled proliferation of the
unaided self-help schools -- the Harambee schools. Secondary education is
now offered in 601 schools against 336 in 1965. The 265 new schools start-
ed with few excertions as harambee schools, but once the schools have been
built the government is often asked to take over the schools and finds it
difficult, for political reasons, to re:3se to do so.  The unchecked se-
condary school expanision has lowered the quality of teaching and the
proportion of qualified teachers has decreased, from 757 in i965 to 59% in
1968, simultaneously with an increase in student.: teacher ratio.  The teach-
ing staff numbered 4,6ho in 1968 with 44% Kenyans.
13.       It had been assumed that the Harambee school development, with
its village secondary schools, would reduce the proportion of student
boarding but this has not been the case; in general secondary education,
where boarding is less common than in other types of secondary schools,
about 40% of the students are still boarders. Although the proportion of
girls in primary schools has increased to 40/'r, the proportion in secondary
schools has decreased in the late 1960's and only about one-fourth of
secondary school students are girls. Class sizes are 35-40 in junior
secondary education and 25 in senior secondary education.
14.       Most teaching materials and equipment are of British origin, and
local production is very limited. Recently, however, some East African
textbooks for primary education and secondary education subjects have been
published.
15.       General secondary education comprises a four-year course which
leads to the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate. In selected schools,
this is followed by a two-year course leading to the Cambridge Overseas
Higher School Certificate. To better relate the examination to African
needs, an East African Examinations Board has been created but so far only
the examinations in Swahili have been Africanized. Final examinations in
Forms IV and VI are regarded as so important that the performance of stu-
dents during terms is usually ignored.  This overvaluation of examinations
has led to an emphasis on those parts of the curricula which can be con-
trolled by tests while other parts not so easily controlled are set aside.
About 70% of school candidates obtain a full Form IV certificate and 50-60%
a full Form VI certificate.
16.       The education given in the general secondary schools is academic
and some of it is irrelevant in the Kenyan context, but the government is
trying to broaden the curriculum, revise examinations, build and equip
workshops and laboratories, train teachers in new subjects and new methods,
prepare new syllabuses and teaching materials, and persuade staff, parents
and pupils to accept the changes. One of the main purposes of the first
IDA education credit was to provide facilities for courses in agriculture,
technical subjects, commerce and home economics in junior secondary educa-
tion.



APPENDIX I
Page L
PrimaqZ Teacher Train
17.       There are 24 small primary teacher colleges with an enrollment
of 150-250 each. A consolidation into fewer and larger colleges is now
being expected for better teaching and economy, and the number will be
reduced to 16 with 480-660 students each. Total enrollment in 1965 was
4,800, increasing to 5,750 in 1968, and in the mid-1970's will be 7,400.
The annual output will increase from 2,400 in 1968 to 3,400-3,500 in
1974-1976.
18.       The small size of existing colleges permitted only academic
subjects and the graduates have been poorly prepared to teach subjects of
relevance for primary school leavers' daily life in rural or urban areas.
To some extent the trainees have been taught to prepare a minority of
primary students for secondary education rather than a majority for life
as adults in a rural village. This is now being changed and subjects such
as agriculture, arts, crafts and home economics are given greater emphasis
in the primary teacher training colleges.
Technical Education
19.       Technical education is offered in five secondary technical
schools, ten secondary trade schools and at the post-secondary Kenya
Polytechnic. The secondary technical schools offer a four-year school
certificate course with technical biases in engineering and building.  At
selected institutions two-year senior secondary courses are run for those
who have shown exceptional ability in the junior secondary courses. The
secondary trade schools offer a four-year course for Junior Technicians
nd a three-year course in a selected trade (City and Guilds). The
Junior Technician is eligible for sandwich courses at the Polytechnic or
at the Mombasa Technical Institute.
20.       Business courses are offered at Kenya Polytechnic and the
Mombasa Technical Institute. Most business education is, however,
offered in private schools in Nairobi and in Mombasa with little govern-
ment control of their quality. Statistics on part-time courses and busi-
ness education in private schools are inadequate. In aided schools less
than 200 took commerce in 1968. Total enrollment in 1976 in technical
education, including business education, is projected at 11,000.
21.       The trade schools are closely coordinated with the system of
trade tests and entry into apprenticeship and this has set their educa-
tional pattern. The reputation of the trade schools with the employers
has been fairly poor because the courses have been unrelated to Kenya's
industrial needs such as refining of agricultural products, wood processing
and machinery rerair. Efforts, however, are being made by the government
to improve the situation and the Ministry of Education has reformed the
vocational school curriculum. The Ministry of Labor organizes opportuni-
ties for onward training of graduates. Provision of new facilities in
nine schools through the first IDA project has improved the schools'
physical facilities considerably.



APPENDIX I
Page 5
22.       Kenya Polytechnic is a nost-secondary regional institution which
gives four-year post-secondary courses for School Certificate holders and
also sandwich and part-time courses. In 1968 the institute enrollments
included 1,900 full-time and part-time students, expected to increase to
over 2,000 in the mid-1970's. The Polytechnic receives assistance from
UNDP and the U.{; the teaching is of good quality.
23.       in 1968, more than 90% of the Leaching staff in technical schools
was qualified and 50% were Kenyans.  Th%e staff situation is therefore fairly
satisfactory.  The large expansion projected for the 1970's would, however,
require a teacher training program and plans are underwoy to train anprox-
imately 30 teachers a year in Kenya Polytechnic with technical assistance
from the U.K. and possibly other bilateral sources.
4Ericultural Education
24.       Veterinary Science, the only higher level agricultural education
in Kenya, is offered in a four-year degree course by the Faculty of Vete-
rinary Science of University College. The Faculty comprises the Department
of Veterinary Anatomy, Animal Husbandry, Clinical Studies, Pathology and
Microbiology, Physiology and Biochemistry. The entrance qualification is
the Higher School Certificate, obtained after successful examination at the
end of Form VI. In 1968, enrollment was 190 and the teaching staff was 38.
25.       At present, there is no Faculty of Agriculture in Kenya.  Kenyan
students are trained in a 3-year course at the Faculty of Agriculture of
the University College, Makerere, Uganda, a constituent college of the
University of East Africa. In addition, Kenyan students follow agricul-
tural courses in overseas universities. The present intake of the Uganda
faculty is 80 students, and is shared in almost equal parts by Kenya, Uganda
and Tanzania.
26.       Diploma courses are offered only at Egerton College, located in a
mixed farming area of the Kenyan HIighlands, a highly developed region. It
is a semi-autonomous institution administered by a Board of Governors that
includes representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture. Egerton receives
basic financial support from the Kenyan government, since its curricula are
mainly designed to train personnel for government service. First-year
students are selected from amongst those who have completed four years of
secondary education, and are offered three-year courses in the following
fields: range management, animal husbandry, agricultural education, general
agriculture, and agricultural engineering. A two-year course in dairy tech-
nology is also offered. About 30% of the teaching time is devoted to practi-
cal work. In 1968, the enrollment was 450 students, and is expected to in-
crease to 600, when the recently started course in agricultural education
will operate on full scale and a planned diploma course in home economics
will start. The College is a full boarding school. At present it has a
teaching staff of 40, most of whom are university graduates.



APPENDIX I
Page 6
27.       Certificate courses prepare technical assistants who are almost
entirely employed by the Ministry of AGriculture. Kenya has two insti-
tutions at this level:
(a) Embu Agricultural Training Center offers a two-year
course for future agricultural field workers. It is
situated on the southern slopes of Mount Kenya, adjacent
to an agricultural research station, in the central highly-
populated area of Kenya, and administered by the Ministry
of Agriculture. Entrance requirements include completion
of the four year secondary school. Students are given
practical and theoretical instruction in most aspects of
agriculture and the allied sciences, and refresher courses
for in-service training are provided. A staff of 27
teachers and instructors, partly degree level and partly
diploma level serve the present 160 students. The projected
enrollment would be 250 students. Since the Center is a
national institution and caters to students from all parts
of Kenya, it is a full boarding institution.
(b) The Animal Health and Industry Training Institute (A.H.I.T.I.)
at Kabete, near Nairobi, trains Animal Health Assistants and
Range Assistants in a two-year course of practical and
theoretical instruction. It is located close to the Vete-
rinary Science Faculty and the Central Insemmination
Station. In addition, shorter specialized courses are
given in specific aspects of the livestock industry.
Boarding facilities are available since the students, men
and women, come from all parts of Kenya and beyond. The
present enrollment is 250 students and expansion to 310
is planned. The teaching staff of 22 are partly graduates,
partly diploma holders, and partly practical instructors
at certificate level.
28.       Another type of middle level agricultural training is given
at the Dairy Training School at Naivasha, about 30 miles north of Nairobi.
Courses of up to 5 months' duration are designed for managers of rural
milk collection centers. The capacity is 30 students.
29.       Thirty centers provide training for farmers and their wives in
agriculture and home economics. The primary role of a farmer training
center (F.T.C.) is to induce change and an attitude of mind receptive to
new ideas among practicing farmers, and to encourage the adoption of
better farming methods. Short courses on practical topics of 1-2 weeks'
duration are offered. Emphasis is placed on farming skills, and ample
time is allowed for practical field demonstrations. In-service refresher
courses are also offered for the lower cadres of field and advisory staff.
In addition the F.T.C. is used by the young farmer clubs of Kenya and is
regarded as a centre of rural educational activity. A few F.T.C.'s have
a demonstration farm of a type common to the area, operated by a capable
tenant and available for student instruction. Many F.T.C.'s also have



APPENDIX I
Page 7
farms which provide financial support. The farms are managed by the prin-
cipals, often to the detriment of their other responsibilities. The
average capacity of the F.T.C. is 60 students. The average teaching staff
is 7, including 1 or 2 female teachers. Twenty two of the existing F.T.C.'s
are administered by the government, one by the Kenya Tea Development Autho-
rity, and seven by the Christian Council of Kenya Rural Training.
Secondary Teacher Trainn
30.       The total annual supply of secondary teachers is about 300 but
will increase to 800 in the mid-1970's. Graduate teachers are trained at:
(a) University College, Nairobi, which offers:
(i) a one-year post-graduate diploma course;
(ii) courses in education taken as one of the three
subjects for first degrees in arts or science
(b)  Makerere University College in Uganda, a college of te
University of East Africa and therefore open to qualified
Kenyans, which offers a three-year course for a Bachelor
of Education degree as well as a post-graduate course for
diplomas.
(c) Overseas universities. About 30 Kenyans each year receive
teacher training overseas.
Non-graduate training for secondary teachers is offered as one or three-
year courses; one-year courses for Form VI graduates and three-year courses
for Form IV graduates:
(a) Kenyatta College outside Nairobi, with an enrollment which
will increase from 600 in 1968 to 1600 in 1976, trains
teachers in general subjects, arts and crafts, music, and
home economics. Kenyatta College also offers four-year
graduate courses in education.
(b) Kenya Science Teachers College, a college largely staffed
and financed by Sweden, has an enrollment of 210, expected
to increase to over 400 in the 1970's. Teachers are trained
in modern methods of teaching sciences and industrial arts.
(c) Egerton College, which trains 40 teachers for agriculture
each year.
(d) Technical teachers are trained at the Kenya Plytechnic.



APPENDIX I
Page 8
Higher Education
31.       Higher education is offered in the University College, Nairobi,
two secondary teacher training colleges, a medical training center, Kenya
Polytechnic and the Egerton Agricultural College. Total enrollment was
2,700 in 1965 and is now 6,500. The University College is the only degree-
giving institution in Kenya and is constituent college of the University of
East Africa. The increased need for specialized high-level (manpower in
Kenya has led to a fast growth of the College and a requirement for addi-
tional faculties.
Adult Education
32.       Responsibility for adult education was transferred from the
Ministry of Labor to the Ministry of Education at the end of 1964 and
a Board of Adult Education established in 1966 to coordinate the activi-
ties in this field. They include literacy and adult education, libraries,
museums, continuation classes, some vocational training, TV and radio
programs, and the Literacy Centre has trained over 4,000 volunteer lite-
racy teachers and published reading material appropriate for the classes.
33.       In addition, there is an Institute of Adult Studies at University
College which has two branches, the Department of Extra-mural Studies at
Nairobi and the College of Social Studies at Kikuyu. The Department pro-
vides evening, weekend, correspondence, radio, TV, and vacation courses,
while the College gives either short courses of 3 weeks or long courses of
a year, both residential. Most of its students are sponsored.



APPENDIX II
REPORT OF THE AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION COMMISSION, 1967
Background
1.        In 1965, seven of the country's ten million people depended
directly upon agriculture for livelihood. Agriculture represented 40%
of G.D.P., three times larger than &ay other sector of the economy, and
was the source of 60% or "enya's exports.  Development Plan projections
indicated that the overwheiming mnajority oi primary school leavers in
the future would of necessity find jobs in agriculture.
2.        In the 1966/70 Development Plan, the government allocated 34%
of development expenditures to agriculture, and at the same time indicated
that the efficient utilization of these funds would depend upon the avail-
ability of skilled staff to administer the projects, and that to ensure
growth in the future, a rapid increase in the pool of trained and expe-
rienced manpower in the agriculture sector would be essential. It was
also appreciated that to achieve agricultural growth targets, Kenya would
have to increase the levels of general knowledge and skills of the farming
population.
3.        This would require the investment of funds for new programs
and facilities at the four main levels of agricultural education and
training comprising:
i. University education;
ii. Intermediate level training consisting of three-year
post secondary diploma courses, and two-year post
secondary certificate programs;
iii. Short term training of farmers and farm managers;
iv. Agriculture courses in secondary schools;
The Commission
4.        Against this background, the government sought and obtained
financial support from the Rockefeller Foundation for the establishment
of a Commission to study agricultural education. The nine-man Commission
served under the chairmanship of Dr. J. R. Weir, Director of the Science
Secretariat, Privy Council Office, Government of Canada, and included
two overseas experts and senior representatives of Kenyan institutions
and government services. The Commission first met in November 1966, and
the (Weir) report was presented in August 1967.
Terms of Reference
5.        The terms of reference of the Commission were:
i. to evaluate the existing system of agricultural education
and to suggest changes required to achieve the government's



APPENDIX II
Page 2
objectives for increasing the rate of growth of output and
farm income;
ii.  to prepare an agricultural education plan that would assure
the requisite flow of trainees;
iii. to estimate the capital and recurrent costs of the plan;
iv.  to recommend sources of external technical assistance and
capital funds for the plan;
v.  to give detailed consideration to special aspects of the
plan, including in particular, the establishment of a
Faculty of Agriculture in Kenya.
Summary of Principal Recommendations
6.        i.  A Faculty of Agriculture to provide degree programs in
Agriculture and Agriculture Sciences should be established
in Kenya.
ii.  Egerton College should be expanded to accommodate 500
students and its curricula should be revised.
iii. The Animal Health and Industry Taining Institute and the
Embu Agricultural Training Center should be expanded to
310 and 250 places respectively.
iv.  A new institute, with a capacity of 300 students, should be
established in Western Kenya, and ultimately as needs dictate,
a similar institution would be needed in the Coast Province.
v. A Farmer Training Center should be established in each
agricultural district, and up to twelve of these should be
built before 1980.
vi. A National Council for Agriculture Education should be
established.
vii. Primary school syllabi should should be oriented to the
development of an understanding of the processes and
problems of agriculture in Kenya.
viii. Agriculture and agriculture science courses in the
secondary schools should be supported.
ix.  An Agrlculture Education Division should be established in
the Ministry of Agriculture.
x.  All teachers in intermediate level agricultural institutions
should be university graduates.



KENYA SECOND IDA PROJECT
Past and Projected Enrollment in Prinery Schools
1965 - 1976
Year         Standard                                                                              Total
1          2          3                      5          .6          7            _5
19655          1o,700    165,800    139,300    135,100    126,LOO    122,500    157,300          1,012,100
1966           193,900    166,100    152,900    130,300    120,900    132,700    1L6 ,00         a., 01,400
1967           228,800    183,600    165,600    1146,900    123,'-00    1,36 OO    11)7,600      1,133,200
1968           250,800    207,800    178,500    158,900    132,700    1314,200    146,800        1,209,700
*
1969           265,000    225,000    198,000    169,000    1412,000    14o,'000    1L :,000      1,282,000
1970           280,000    238,000    213,000    188,000    152,000    152,000    150,000         1,373,000
1971           295 ,000    253,000    227,000    202,000    169,000    162,000    162, 000       1,172 ,000
1972           310,000    265 5,000    240, 000    216,000    182,000    179,000    172,000      1 ,54,ooo
197_           325,000    279,000    252,000    22,'000    195,000    192,000    129,000         1,66o,00c
197)4         3*0,000    292,000    266,000    239,000    206,000    205,000    202,000          1,750,000
1975           355,000    306,000    278,000    253,000    215,000    216,000    21;5,000        1,'83p,000
1976           370,000    320,000    291,000    269,000    225,000    225,000    23'5,00) 0      1,931,Q0O
* 1. Actual enrollments to 1968, proJected enrollments frDm 1960 forward.
2.  Drop-out rates between first four standards assumed tD be 10i;, 5%, 5% and iOS respectively.
3.  Drop-out rates between Standards 5, 6 and 7 obscured by hig-h repetition rates,
estimated t3 be 10,000 p.a.



ANNEX 2
KENPA SECOND IDA PROJECT
Psot and projected enrollment in general, technical. agricultural adouation and
teacher trainirg at seconIg7 level
1296  - 1976_1
Form 1              Form 2              Form 3              Form 4              For  5              Form 6                   Total
1965    General Sec.                 19000               12600              7800                 6800                1130                 720                     48o5o
Technical & Agricultural      900                 800                700                 400                  200                200                       3200
PTT & STT-/                  1850                1780                530                 360                 300                 250                       5070
TOTAL     -mm
1966    General Sec.                24100                18500              11200                7100                1360                 950                     63210
Technical & Agricultural      950                 840                710                 500                  300                 200                      3500
PTT & .STT                   1630                1770                700                 460                 520                 310                      4&0
TOTAL      72tO0
1967    General Sec.                31800               26600              16900                10800                1620                1120                     88840
Technical & Agricultural    1050                  920                830                 600                  250                 250                      3900
PTT & STT                    1340                1560                970                 680                 630                 510                      12
TOTAL       90 0
1968    General Sec.                35600               28500              19500               14600                 1770                1390                    101360
Technical & Agricultural    1200                 1060                950                 690                  350                250                       4500
FPTT & STT                   1460                1309               1080                1000                 900                 580                         2
TOTAL        72
1969    General Sec.                44000               32000              22000               18000                2200                1750                     119950
Technical & Agricultural    1400                 1240               1130                 840                 400                 300                       5310
PTT & STT                    1400                1250               1260                1200                1240                 650                      6
TOTAL
1970    General Sec.                44000               40000              25000               20000                2700                 1900                    133600
Technical & Agricultural    1700                 1350               1250                 900                 500                 400                       6100
PTT & STT                    1400                1250               1260                1090                1400                1090 0360
TOTAL      167060
1971    Genral Sec.                 47000               40000              30000               23000                 3000               2300                     169300
Technical & Agricultural    1800                 1600               1350                 950                 too                 900                       6900
PTT & STT                    1400                1250               1350                1100                1900                1250                       7850
TOTAL      tSO
1972    General Sec.                51000               42000              30000               27000                3500                2600                     156100
Technical & Agricultural    1900                 1710               1540                1150                 800                 600                      7700
PTT & STT                    1350                1300               1430                1270                1500                1430                      8280
TOTAL      1720CO
1973    General & Sec.              57000               46000              32000               27000                4100                3000                     169100
Technical & Agricultural    2100                 1900               1700                1200                 800                 700                       8400
PTT & STT                    1350                1300               1430                1600                1500                15900                     840
TOTAL      10
1974    General Sec.                66000               91000              35000               29000                4100                3500                     1886CO
Technical & Agricultural    2400                 22000              2000                 1300                1000                gOO                       9800
PTT & STT                    1400                1300               1580                1400                1600                1500                      8780
TOTAL       7
1975    General See.                69000               59000              38000               32000                4400                3500                     205900
Technical & Agricultural    2700                 2400               2200                1600                1200                 900                      11000
FIT & STT                    1400                1350               1500                1500                1600                1500                      88TAL 
1976    Gernral See.                72000               62000              45000               34000                4800                3700                     221500
Technical & Agricultural    3000                 2600               2400                1B00                1100                1100                      12000
PTT & STT                    1500                1400               1350                1500                1650                1550                      8950
TOTAL      24t
1J  Projection, from 1969, aseumaing drmp-out ratee between  forms    of 10%, 25% and 10%.  Dop-out rate, in technical achools  asauoed to be
10%, 10% and 25% in view of the holding powar of 3-year craft  cursee,.
PTT _ Primary T.ahere in Training.
STT   Secondary Teecher  in Trdning.
Ndote:  Totals of years 1965-69 he been rounded up to 100's and totals of yeare 1970-76 to 1000'.
Augua t, 1969.



KENYA   Second IDA Education Project
Supply and Demand of Primrary Teachers
1968      1969      1970      1971      1972      1973      1974      1975       1976
Pupils in primary schools    1,210,000 1,282,000 1,373,000 1,472,000 1,564,000 1,660,c00 1,750,000 1,838,000 1,931,000
Assumed pupil/teacher ratio     32.5      34.0      35        35        35        35        3.5        35        35
Number of teachers required     37,300    37,800    39,300    42,100    44,700    47, 400    50,000    52,500    55,200
TRAIED TEACHERS
(a) from previous year less
3; wastage                 24,300    26,900   29,700    32,300    35,100    38,000   11.l,Ioo    4t1,300   147,400
(b) supply from colleges        2,400     2,600      2,500     2,700     2,900     3,200     3,400     3,400      3,600
(c) upgraded teachers           1,000      1,100     1,100     1,200     1,200     1,200     1,200      1,200     1,200
TOTAL TRAINrD  TEACHERS         27,700    30,600    33,300    36,200    39,200    42,1400    45,700   148,9oo    52,200
Untrained teachers (residual)    9,600     7,200     6,ooo     5,900     5,500     5,000      4,300     3,600     3,00a
TOTAL STOCK                     37,300    37,800    39,300    42,100    44,700    17,ttoo    50,000    52;500    55,200



AMNE It
IISTRr OF  CDUCADIT 11 NET I lB
(in EL)
Rnecremt 2qemitwres    Capital Expenditures
1964/65         1965/66         1966/67 -       1967/68         1968/69        1964J/65 to 1968/69       1967/68 to 1968/69
(est.)          (est.)              S                         S
Primary 5ducatim                    267,084          73,002          58,644          63,5W           85,OiD             1.9
Secondary Education               1,395,439       2,105,758       2,747,955       3,301,570       3,8h1,800            45.9                       56.1
Technical Education                366,457          508,818         524,485         570,500         610,33D             8.9                       11.9
Teacher Training                    769,076        833,740          919,268       1,028,559       1,124,4lW            16.0                       11.0
Higher Education                    676,699         743,796         910,799       1,127,515       1,409,500            16.7                       18.8
Administration and Other
Scheme. and Services               41D.709         590.165          631.54          714.756         742,620            10.6                        2,2
TOTAL RICCOURRNT               3,885,464       4,855,279       5,792,665       6,806,431       7,813,700           100.0                      100.0
Change %                                           + 24.9%         + 19.3%         + 17.5%         + J147%
Capital Expenditure:               453,1194        819,177          700,900       2,217,438       2,958,1bS8
Of which first IDA project            -              (2,621)       (170,387)     (1,150,191)     (1,797,620)
TOTAL EKPD(DITUID              4,338,958       5,674,14%6      6,493,565       9,023,869      10,772,158
Change S                                           + 30.7%         + 14.kS         + 38.9%         + V.tl
Capital expendita" aS 
of total expenditure                10.5%           114.1           10.8%            24.5%           27.5%
Sourcet Ninisty of Education, An4wlL Report 1967, Table 35.
Republic of gerqa, 1968/69 Fstimates of Recurrent Hxpenditre, 1968.
Republic of Kenya, Development Etimates for th  YeLar V968/69, 1968, amd loca1  avaiAble data.



ANNEX 5
TOTAL RECURRENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
(in KL)
)f,67/6S           1968/69
Primary                                11, 76,000         12,738,360
Local and CentrYu  G3overnments         8,246,440          9,290,770
Fees                                    3,229,560          3,h47,590
Secondary                               5,63h,500          6,5150
Ministry of Education                   3,301,570          3,841,800
Fees                                    2,332 ,930         2,677,650
Technical                                 616,170            703,900
Ministry of Education                     570,500            610,330
Fees                                       75,670             93,570
Agricultural                              158,150            163,500
Ministry of Agriculture                   158,150            163,500
Teacher Training                        1,028,550          1,124,440
Ministry of Education                   1,028;550          1,124,440
Higher Education                        1,169,166          1,4418,419
Ministry of Education                   1,127,515          1,,409,500
Office of the Attorney Gen.(Law Sch.)      41,651             38,919
Administration and Other Schemes          714,756            742,620
Ministry of Education                     7141,756           742,620
Grand Total                   20,827,292          23,*410,689
Source: Estimates from government publications and locally available data.



2IDDL3 AND HIGH LEVEL MANPOIIER, 1969-74
Additional Needs and Supply
Supply 1/                 Surplus (+) or Deficit (-Y
At Present    Wits Projected        At Present    With Projected
Educational Background                Needs 2/         Rate           Increase              Rate           Increase
tTp-versity Education                 9,200            2,400           3,800            - 6,800          _ 5,400
Agricultujre & Veterinall 3/
Certificate                        3,480            1,490            2,850           - 1,990          -   630
Diploma                            1,280              800            1,320           -   480          +    40
University Degree                    870              316              800           -   554          -    70
(Agriculture)                       (680)            (151)            (635)         (-   529)        (_    5)
(Veterinary)                        (190)            (165)            (165)         (_    25)        (-    25)
Qualified Teachers
Primary                           29,200           20,400           24,4o00          - 8,800          - 4,800
Secondary                          7,600            2,000            3,600           - 5,600            4,000
1/ From Kenya's institutions, except for University Degree in Agriculture where graduates from Makerere College,
Uganda, and other foreign countries are included. It is assumed that 50% of the girls learning school will
not seek employment; girls account for about 25% of secondary school enrollment.
2/ All non-citizens are assumed to be replaced by Kenyans by 1982.
2/ Needs and Supply for 1970-80.



KENYA: EDUCATIONAL ADMINISTRATION, 1969
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENT  --------                            - -              MINISTER  FOR  EDUCATION
TEACHERSA SERVICE COMMISSIONr                                                             VISORY COMMITTEE
(EMPLOYERS)                                                     
PERMANENT SECRETARY
F-
|CHIEF EDUCATION OFIe | E
CHIEF INSPECTOR                                                            |       DEPUTY CHIEF                                                                    | DEUYS_RTY
OF SCHOOLS                          EDUCATION OFFICER                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPUTY SECRETARY
OF SC HOOLS   l                                      |    ~~~~~~~~~(DEVELOPMENT) <
ASSISTANT CHIEF                 [  PRINCIPAL FINANCE
DEVELOPMENT I                                       EDUCATION OFFICER                   AND ESTABLISHMENTS              HIGHER EDUCATION
(ADMINISTRATION)                         OFFICER
NSCTRAT                         |A INPROVINCIAL EDUTIO  OFFICERS |
(17)  OF EDUCATION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
SECONDAR (252D) O |       | TECHhlC^          |       |TEACHERS COLLEGES
AND INSTITUTIRNS        ~~(26)
rOU.Ty EIDUCA T.10 .FFCEt ]
Ir 
ERIMARYO DC9TI6S
(61351
M-hC I969                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD- 4377






KENYA: STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION, 1969
Secondory Vocationcal EducCtion
PreF- Techniciln Kenya Polytechnic
(N   eReq )Pre - Crat
Mombasa Technical Institute
Primary Education                                                                             Medical Training Center
}               - ,~~~          ~~ KPE                         {Diploma in Agriculture
iCertificate in Agriculture
iFormer Training Centers                                                                                    First Degree Programs, University College, Nairobi
(No Pre Requisite)                                                                              
EL    ~    ~    Arts, Science, Commerce, Engineering, Agriculture'
Generol Sec ndory Education   C             HSC
4  Diploma in Education
I1 2       3     4Bachelor of Education
2g 3        4     5Architecture, Medicine, Surgery, Veterinary Science
Teacher Training
flsY
*-To Start in 1970
KPE-Kenya Preliminary Examination
liii  ~                               SC - School Certificate
HSC - Higher School Certificate
P2
I _Sbl - Secondary Teacher Training
1  PI IP2 1LP31P4I- Primary Teacher Training
-   Included in second IDA Project
(2R) IBRD- 4372






KENYA: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID, 1968-1976
SECOND IDA EDUCATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENT IN PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
FORMS
6
SENIOR
{          I        .   .1968|
SECONDARY      E                    197rA
4
JUNIOR      3
SECONDARY
tI              Im1                  
STANDARDS
6
----------------
PRIMARY      4I
3I
0          50,000         100,000        150,000       200,000        250,000        300,000        350,000       400,000
NOTE: In 1968 Enrollment in Primary Education was 1.21 mill, and in Secondary Education 112,200.                                             0)
In 1976 Proyected enrollment In Primary Education is 1.93 mill. and In Secondary Education 243,000.
LAugust 1969                                                                                                                            IBRD-4376






KENYA: SECOND IDA EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT, 1960-1976
(MILLIONS OF PUPILS)
2.0        D  X                                                 -                                                    I       1         2.0
~~~  80 .0,
ENROLLMENT
1.5                                                                6                                                                  1.5
65%                      -.0
ENROLLMENT               --
(40% GIRLS)         --
ENROLLMENT/
1.0                                                                                                                                   1. 0
.O 49%                                                                                                                             .
E7ROLL
.5                                                                                                                                  .5
0                                                         I       I               I            I       I           I                O
1960   1961    1962    1963    1964   1965   1966   1967    1968   1969    1970   1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976                I
_E                          ACTUAL-                                                           PROJECTED                                    > 
August 1969                                                                                                                           (R)IBRD-4375






KENYA: SECOND IDA EDUCATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENT IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS AND PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES
(THOUSANDS OF PUPILS)
250                                              I                           I                      i5%0F AGE GROUP       250
15O  AG GOU ----
200   X                                                                                                                    200
I"    0,,,E,,,  ,
1 5 O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 % OF                       w < , , ._S   
AGE GRlOUP     ol '
TEACHER TRAININGi    
10 0                         XX .As..... eds                                                                               100
4G/ OF     <
50 5___    --                                                                                         t--0
0                                                                                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~- -
IO                                                         9%O       I             I              I'                      O5
1960   1961   1962   1963   1964  1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976
50R) 50RD-43
(2R) IBRD- 4374 
01






KENYA: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION EXPENDITURE DISBURSEMENT
YEAR                   YEAR                   YEAR                    YEAR                    YEAR
S  2131415  4170112   2    53 4  6 7 8 910 11121 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1112 1         8 5 4  5 7 2  10I112 1  2 34516 71 011g
SURVEY AND                                                                                                                                      92
PREPARATION OF SITES                                 1 T   TT'                                                          8.20
ADMINISTRATION                    i1       '        K
PROGRAMMING AND                                                                                              00
ARCHITECTS BRIEF                                                                                6 7I 
/  ~~~~~oj6,10
PRELIMINARY DESIGN                                                                                0
FINAL DESIGN                                                                              000
WORKING DRAWINGS AND[,
CONTRACT PREPARATION                          r       rr
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT v                            DIS B
~~ hM~~~~J                Guarante~~~~~~e Period
TENDER AND
(in millions of                                  ( in millions of U. S,Dollorsj
U. S . Dol lors)
IBRD - 4375(2R)






KENYA
SECOND  EDUCATION  PROJECT
D ISTR IBUT ON BY LOCATION AND TYPE OF SCHOOLS
(P-j,,ct Sch.o.l Only)
A.        P - yI_aTY-eacher Ta-nin"            D.  A  Seconad  acYn    C    S               r    Q Farmen  Ta nCsntEs.
K....a.....yan                                                                             Ci J.r. 0,ok
Thogoto                                       Eldoret                                      Kianyaga
4acha.ko                                       Kabete                                       -arirgo
Kiga'll                                          S-ngaInI
Kagumo                                        Mchkaos                                      Susla
losorijot                                     Hombasa l.T.C.A A lUIra-   1nstjt2e
Ke-ncho                                       Nairobi l.T.C.                               E.b.
A_saI                                         Hob-asa T-ch. InMtitota                      4n ral l-ealti  Inst,tutn
KSanzytta Collgn
m.    s SeconaJwTacher TrLYtIIYY
C.
E         T       H        I      0       P      I     A
V  )                                   0                             '/MOYALE                                                     /
LOD WAR
EL WAKo                           |
MORSABIT
<I                                                                                                                                                                            >  .  
9  C;X)   :?/                                                                                     WA,AIR
IKTALE                                 o MARALAL
.An0                   MOODY GASHI
o   ,.t~~~~ AKAME_-_, Lo, -  
HOTHOMSON'S                         40R                                                           *               ,
K        t rSOLAI  F                      NY               40                                                                                
\o                          ~~~~~~~GARISSA&      
AY ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    .                     K A  E BLWEZI A                                                                -
2     4        0             OSA                                     .'_
NOVEMBER  1969                                                                                                                                            ID  2 c  tMALINDI  3
L E G E N D                                                                    XW                                  S  
-------ONE  DOT  REPRESENTS  5,000  PERSONS                                                                           O     ,.  
,,,,,, ,. AILWATS. r,.....-''
L                       _                               ~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~~~~~0 20 4  6  0  I.. MIL-S '
INOVEMBER 1969                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 2573R



