CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 185 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 20, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 185 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 20, 1970
0


﻿AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1970, between REPUBLIC
OF KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASsOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to the Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in the Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral term defined in the General Conditions have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to six million one hundred
thousand dollars ($6,100,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account as provided in, and subject to the rights of can-


﻿4
cellation and suspension set forth in, the Development
Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreemert, as such allocation shall be modified from time
to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by
further agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed under the Development Credit Agreement:
(a) such amounts as shall have been paid (or if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services included
in Categories I and II of the allocation of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; and
(b) the equivalent of fifty-nine per cent (597) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, of such amounts as shall be re-
quired to meet payments to be made) for goods or
services included in Categories III, IV and V of the
said allocation of the proceeds of the Credit; pro-
vided, however, that if there shall be an increase in
the estimate of such payments for goods or services
included in any of the Categories III, IV and V, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower adjust
the above percentage as required in order that with-
drawals of the amount of the Credit then allocated to
such Categories and not withdrawn may continue
pro rata with the payments remaining to be made for
goods or services included in such Categories.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made under Categories I and II of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of


﻿5
this Agreement on account of payments in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services sup-
plied from, the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and
September 1 commencing September 1, 1980 and ending
March 1, 2020, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on March 1, 1990, to be one-half of one per
cent (  of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1 _%)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement to expenditures on the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the


﻿6
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits published by the Bank in August 1969 and in
accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such goods and
services shall be subject to the prior approval of the
Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used ex-
clusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound technical, financial and administrative standards and
with due regard to economy, and shall provide promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources               '
required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall promptly take all
requisite steps for the acquisition and retention by the
Borrower of all such lands, interests in land and properties
and all rights, powers and privileges as may be necessary
or proper for the construction and operation of the educa-
tional institutions included in the Project and shall ensure
that such lands are available immediately as needed for the
purposes of said construction.
SECTION 4.03. For the purposes of carrying out the
Project,
(a) the Borrower shall within three months of the date
of this Agreement, establish in the Ministry of Education
a Project Unit on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association; such unit shall also be responsible for the


﻿7
completion of the project described in the Development
Credit Agreement No. 93 KE dated August 19, 1966, be-
tween the Borrower and the Association;
(b) the Borrower shall appoint on a full time basis the
following staff of the Project Unit acceptable to the Asso-
ciation:
(i) a Project Director, an architect and an educator,
within three months of the date of this Agreement;
and
(ii) an equipment specialist and an accountant within
six months of the date of this Agreement.
(c) the Borrower shall provide the Project Unit with all
supporting staff, facilities and other resources required for
the purpose of the Project TJnit.
SECTION 4.04. (a) Expept as the Association shall other-
wise agree, in the carrying out of Parts V, VI and VII of
the Project the Borrower shall employ or cause to be em-
ployed qualified and experienced experts and consultants
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, upon terms
and conditions (including terms of reference) satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause the architectural services and the con-
struction works included in the Project to be carried out by
architects and contractors respectively, acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association, and employed under con-
tracts satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall furnish or cause to L  furnished to the
Association for its approval, promptly upon their prepara-
tion, the plans, specifications, contracts and work schedules
for the construction included in the Project and any mate-
rial modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail
as the Association shall request.


﻿8
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the minis-
tries or departments of the Borrower responsible for the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof; shall enable
the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods and any relevant records and documents; and shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Project, the goods and services, the operation of the
educational system of the Borrower and programs for edu-
cational development in its territories and the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of the ministries or
departments of the Borrower responsible for the carrying
out of the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower undertakes to insure or
cause to be insured the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and
other hazards incident to acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
SECTION 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause the educa-
tional institutions included in the Project to be so operated
as to promote the educational objectives of the Borrower
and to be provided with qualified teachers and administra-
tors in adequate numbers.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the buildings, furniture
and equipment of the educational institutions included in


﻿9
the Project to be adequately maintained and shall cause
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made. The
Borrower shall establish appropriate administrative and
financial procedures for the purpose of such maintenance.
SECTION 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall, within six months
after the date of the Development Credit Agreement, com-
plete a staff development plan, acceptable to the Associa-
tion, for the purpose of providing a Kenyan teaching staff
for the Faculty of Agriculture, and shall promptly imple-
ment such staff development plan.
(b) The Borrower shall strengthen the Training Division
in the Ministry of Agriculture. To that end, the Borrower
shall appoint to the Training Division, within one year after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement, adequate
additional qualified staff in planning, curriculum develop-
ment, teaching methods and supervision.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause the principals and teaching staff in
the farmer training centers included in the Project to be
released from the duties of managing and farming land in
excess of the training requirements.
SECTION 4.09. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic condi-
tions in the territories of the Borrower and the intcrna-
tional balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower


﻿10
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.10. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect ,n its
territories.
SECTION 4.11. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period therein set forth, then at any subsequent time
during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable im-
mediately togther with the service charges thereon and upon
any such declaration such principal, together with such
charges, shall become due and payable immediately, any-
thing in the Development Credit Agreement to the con-
trary notwithstanding.


﻿11
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1975 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 6.02. The date of August 30, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 4.05 of this Agreement shall terminate on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall ter-
minate or on a date 20 years after the date of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
SECTION 6.04. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
SECTION 6.05. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:
Finance
Nairobi


﻿12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused the Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and to be delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ LEONARD OLIVER KIBINGE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                         in Dollar Equivalent
I  Technical Assistance                     450,000
II  Equipment and books                     1,430,000
III  Site Development and Construction       2,940,000
IV   Project Administration and
Professional Services                   460,000
V   Furniture and locally procured
equipment and books                     300,000
VI Unallocated                                520,000
Total    6,100,000
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to V shall decrease, the amount of the
Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for, such
Category will be reallocated by the Association to Cate-
gory VI.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
any of the Categories I to V shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of the Cate-
gories III to V, an amount equal to 59% of such increase)
will be allocated by the Association, at the request of the
Borrower, to such Category from Category VI, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as deter-
mined by the Association, in respect of the cost of the items
in the other Categories.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
A. The Project consists of the following parts:
I. The construction, furnishing and equipping of the
following institutions: one university faculty of agriculture,
one new agricultural institute, six farmer training centers
(new or virtual replacement) and three new mobile exten-
sion training units.
II. The expansion of the following existing institutions:
two agricultural institutes, eleven primary teachers colleges
and four secondary technical schools.
III. The conversion of one primary school into one sec-
ondary technical school.
IV. The equipping of the following existing institutions:
three secondary technical schools, one technical institute
and one secondary teacher college.
V. The completion of a comprehensive education devel-
opment plan.
VI. The completion of a feasibility study of curriculum
development.
VII. The provision of technical services to assist the
Ministry of Education in education planning and to under-
take a feasibility study of curriculum development, and to
assist University College, Nairobi, and the Ministries of
Education and Agriculture, in the operation of the institu-
tions included in the Project.
B. The specific institutions included in the Project, their
planned capacities and the approximate areas to be con-
structed for each institution are set forth in the Annex to
this Schedule, as such Annex may be amended by agree-
ment between the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1974.


﻿15
ANNEX to Schedule 2, page 1
List of Educational Institutions
1. Faculty of Agriculture.
Approximate
Name of            Staff    Total    Construction
Institution        Houses Enrollment   Area Ft.2
University
College of
Nairobi            23    300 (300)   101,000
2. Agricultural Institutes.
Additional Approximate
Name of            Staff    Total    Boarding  Construction
Institutions       Houses Enrollment   Places     Area Ft.2
Embul                 1    250 (90)     (90)       36200
Ahitil               -     280 (60)      -          2900
West Kenya
Institute of
Agriculture        13    260 (260)    260       51000
3. Farmer Training Centers and Mobile Extension Train-
ing Units.
Additional Approximate
Name of            Staff    Total    Boarding  Construction
Institutions       Houses Enrollment    Places    Area Ft.2
01 Joro Orok         11     60 (60)      60        17200
Kianyaga             12     60 (60)      60        20300
Baringo              11     60 (60)      60        19000
Bungoma              12     60 (60)      60        20300
Busia                12     60 (60)      60        20300
Kwale                11     60 (60)      60        19000
1 Expansion


﻿16
ANNEX to Schedule 2, page 2
4. Primary Teachers Training Colleges.
Additional Approximate
Name of           Staff    Total   Boarding  Construction
Institutions      Houses Enrollment   Places   Area Ft.2
Kilimambogo          8   480 (256)     50       26500
Thogoto              7   480 (314)    140       24700
Machakos            141  480 (328)    190       26100
Kigari               2   480 (281)    240       26100
Kagumo              -    660 (333)    140       24700
Egoji                2   480 (231)    135       20400
Mosoriot             1   480 (226)     -         8200
Kericho              1   480 (167)    200       24500
Asumbi              13   480 (292)     -        22200
Eregi               11   660 (309)    140       31200
Shanzu               2   480 (247)     -        16600
5. Technical Schools and Technical Institutes.
Additional Approximate
Name of           Staff    Total   Boarding  Construction
Institutions      Houses Enrollment   Places   Area Ft.2
Nyeri2              -    480 (480)     -         -
Eldoret3            -    315           -         -
Kabete3             -    510           -         -
Kisumu'              9   330 (160)    140       22600
Machakos3           -    350           -         -
Meru'               10   350 (160)    140       26600
Mombasa ITC1        -    315 (175)    140       15300
Nairobi ITC1        -    280 (130)    100       12900
Mombasa Tech.
Inst.3            -    624           -         -
6. Equipping only of Kenyatta Teacher College, Nairobi.
1 Expansion; 2 Conversion; and 3 Equipping
Figures in ( ) represent additional enrollment.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. Contract for Civil Works
(a) The several civil works included in the Project shall
to the extent practicable, be grouped to form one or more
economical bid package.
(b) Prior to inviting bids the Borrower shall submit to
the Association for approval:
(i) lists containing the types and groups of works pro-
posed to be let and the estimated costs thereof, to-
gether with a description of the method to be used
for obtaining bids in respect to each one;
(ii) the description of the proposed international ad-
vertising coverage, and the draft bid notices; and
(iii) the description of prequalification procedures to-
gether with the list of firms the Borrower proposes
to invite to bid.
(c) After the bids have been received and evaluated,
the Borrower shall, prior to the award of contract, send to
the Association a summary analysis of the bids and, for its
approval, a brief justification of the Borrower's decision on
the award.
(d) As soon as a contract has been awarded, two con-
formed copies thereof will be sent to the Association
promptly after execution of such contract and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal in repect of such contract.
(e) The Borrower shall request the Association's ap-
proval for any proposed change in a contract involving a
price increase of 5% of the original contract price or of
more than the equivalent of US $10,000, whichever is less,
together with reasons for the proposed change.


﻿18
2. Contracts for Equipment, Books and Furniture
(a) Prior to inviting bids, the Borrower shall submit to
the Association for approval:
(i) lists of all items of equipment, books and furniture
required for the Project, showing the specifications,
the estimated unit and total prices of each item.
Items shall be indexed, coded and numbered for
identification with each of the project items and the
spaces for which they are required, and shall be
grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as
shall be consistent with sound technical and procure-
ment practices. Amendments of such lists, which
may be made from time to time, will also be sub-
mitted to the Association for approval;
(ii) draft standard bidding documents, the draft forms
of contracts, the draft bid notices, and the proposed
international advertising coverage.
(b) Procurement shall be limited to those items of equip-
ment, books and furniture which are specified in the ap-
proved lists mentioned in sub-paragraph 2(a) (i) above and
which shall be identified in contract documents by the same
indexes, codes and numbers as in such lists.
(c) With respect to the procurement of equipment, books
and furniture, and pursuant to paragraph 2.8 of the Guide-
lines for Procurement referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, the Borrower and the Association agree that
where bids are submitted by any manufacturer established
in the territories of the Borrower of any such goods manui
factured or processed in the territories of the Borrower to
a substantial extent as determined by the Association (here-
inafter called Local Bid), the following rules shall be ob-
served for the purpose of comparing any Local Bid to any
bid other than a Local Bid (hereinafter called Foreign
Bid):


﻿19
(i) all taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower shall first be deducted from
the total of any Foreign Bid;
(ii) the portion of any such Foreign Bid resulting from
subparagraph (i) above which represents the c.i.f. (Mom-
basa) price of such goods shall then be increased by 15%o
thereof or by the amount of such taxes as generally apply
to such goods if imported into the territories of the Bor-
rower by non-exempt purchasers, whichever is lower;
(iii) the figure resulting from sub-paragraph (ii) above
shall be deemed to be the price of any such Foreign Bid for
comparison purposes;
(iv) the price of any Local Bid shall be equal to the
ex-factory price of the goods offered;
(v) if the price of the goods offered under the lowest
evaluated Local Bid is equal to or lower than the price of
the lowest evaluated Foreign Bid resulting from sub-para-
graph (iii) above, then the lowest evaluated Local Bid may
be considered the lowest evaluated bid for the purposes of
paragraph 3.9 of said Guidelines; and
(vi) in cases where a Local Bid is considered, pursuant
to sub-paragraph (v) above, to be the lowest evaluated bid,
the bid analysis submitted to the Association shall state the
amount of the taxes referred to under sub-paragraph (ii)
above.
(d) In case of a contract to be awarded to a bidder other
than the lowest bidder (within the meaning of the foregoing
sub-paragraph 2(c)), or of a contract involving a price of
10%  or more above the original estimate as submitted
under sub-paragraph 2(a) (i) above, the Borrower shall
send to the Association, after the bids have been evaluated,
a summary and analysis thereof and a brief justification of
the decision on the award, and request the Association's
approval before making the award.


﻿20
(e) Promptly after bids have been evaluated and the
contract has been awarded, the Borrower shall furnish the
Association with the following:
(i) a certificate signed by the Project Director that the
goods tendered for are in accordance with the quantities
and specifications in the list approved by the Association
under sub-paragraph 2(a) above;
(ii) a summary of the tenders received, a brief analysis
of the tenders and justification for the Borrower's decision
in making the award; and
(iii) two conformed copies of the contract awarded,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
in respect of such contract.


