Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4118-LSO 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Health Sector Reform Project II) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 19, 2006
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4118-LSO 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 2006, between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A)  the Association has received letters dated November 9, 1999 
and June 17, 2005 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to strengthen and reform the Borrower’s health sector (the Program) 
and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(B) the Borrower has requested that the Association support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of credits over a period of approximately ten 
years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program;  
 
 
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from various Development Partners 
(as hereinafter defined) grants and loans to assist in the financing of the Program;  
(D)   the Borrower, the Association and the Development Partners (as hereinafter 
defined) have entered into a Statement of Intent (SOI) providing for common procedures 
on budget allocation, cooperation and exchange of information and monitoring and 
evaluation;  
(E) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a development credit  
agreement dated July 21, 2000 under which the Association has lent SDR 4,900,000 in 
support of the first phase of the Program (the First Credit); and  
 
(F)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the second phase 
of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of said Project 
(the Second Credit); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
3
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
(b) 
   Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is amended to 
read as follows:- 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Development Partners” means, collectively, African Development 
Bank, the Development Cooperation of Ireland, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the 
World Health Organization, the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation, the 
Krenditanstalt für Wiederaufbau and any other entity or developmental organization or 
agency, including donors, participating in, or assisting the Borrower with, the carrying 
out of the Project; and, are signatories of the SOI; 
(b)  
“Eligible Category” means Category (1) set forth in the table in Part A.1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  4
4
(e) 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which runs from April 1 through 
March 31 of the following year; 
(f) 
“MTEF” means the Borrower’s medium-term expenditure framework, a 
3-year rolling health sector expenditure program and budget developed in conjunction 
with the Borrower, the Association and the Development Partners;  
(g) 
“MOHSW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Social 
Welfare; 
 (h) 
“National Medical Waste Management Plan” means the Borrower’s plan 
approved by the Association on June 2, 2005 containing recommendations and 
implementation procedures related to the mitigation of mismanagement of health care 
waste in the Borrower’s territory;  
(i)  
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
August 15, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods 
(or longer) of Project implementation; 
 (j) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in 
paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement outlining policies and implementation 
procedures for the Project; 
 (k)  
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on July 21, 2004 and on behalf of the Borrower on 
July 27, 2004; 
 
(l) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 (m) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  5
5
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to four million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 4,500,000). 
Section 2.02 (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.  
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
Page  6
6
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 
15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2015 and ending June 15, 2045. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2025 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.  
Page  7
7
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, health and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b)  
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
 Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives and the 
next phase of the Program; and 
Page  8
8
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04 
The Borrower shall acquire and install new accounting software 
for the project accounting unit of the MOHSW by no later than March 30, 2006. 
Section 
3.05 
The Borrower shall hire a Procurement Officer and an 
administrative secretary for the procurement unit of the MOHSW by no later than March 
30, 2006. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made, 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Page  9
9
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation;  and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
 
Page  10
10
 
ARTICLE V  
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)  
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and 
(b)  
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the 
 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
 
to the terms of the agreement providing therefore. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association  
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02 
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 5.01 
(b)(i) shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)(ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE V I 
 
Termination 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  11
11
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Development Planning of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning 
 
P.O. Box 395 
 
Maseru 100 
 
Lesotho 
 
Facsimile:  
 
266 310157 
 
266
310622 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or  
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
12
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Maseru, Kingdom of Lesotho, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
 
By /s/ Timothy Thahane 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Ritva Reinikka 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
13
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1) 
Goods, works, 
(a)      2,400,000 
 
100% of foreign  
 
consultants’ services,  
in the aggregate for  
 
expenditures and  
 
operating costs and 
FY05/06 and FY06/07 
 
90% of local 
 
training 
 
 
expenditures for goods 
(b)      1,685,000 
 
and works; 90% of local 
 
in the aggregate for  
 
expenditures for  
FY07/08 and subsequent  
operating costs; and   
 
FYs until project completion  
100% for consultants’ 
 
services and training 
 
(2) 
Refunding of  
 
415,000 
 
Amount due 
 
 
Project Preparation 
 
pursuant to Section 
 Advance 
 
2.02(b) 
of 
this 
 
Agreement 
 
_________ 
 TOTAL 
 4,500,000 
 
========  
 
Page  14
14
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c) 
the term “training” means the reasonable cost of registration fees, travel 
and per-diem of trainers and participants, training materials, rental of facilities and 
equipment and other costs related to training to be carried out under the Project; and 
(d)  
the term “operating costs” means reasonable MOHSW expenses, which 
would not have been incurred absent the Project, including office supplies, vehicle 
operation, travel and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Borrower.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a)  
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  
(b)  
payments made for expenditures for goods, works, and services under a 
contract which any national or international financing institution or agency, other than the 
Association, shall have financed or agreed to finance under any other credit or grant; and 
(c)  
in respect of Category 1 (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Part A 
of this schedule, unless the Borrower has submitted evidence satisfactory to the 
Association (annual MTEF reports) which clearly indicates the Association’s annual 
contribution to the Program for FY07/08 and subsequent FYs until the Project is 
completed.   
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) operating costs and training, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
Page  15
15
 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
Borrower’s Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
Page  16
16
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
Page  17
17
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 600,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
Page  18
18
 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  19
19
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  20
20
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in achieving a sustainable 
increase in access to quality preventive, curative, and rehabilitative health services by 
increasing access to, and quality delivery of, essential health services.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Essential Health Services Delivery
Establishment and strengthening of district health management teams in ten 
districts including: (i) the acquisition of information technology equipment; (ii) the 
acquisition of medical equipment and maintenance systems; (iii) the provision of 
essential drugs, office space, and training; (iv) the provision of technical advisory 
services for an assessment of the scope for enlarging community and household 
involvement including the implementation of recommendations made under such 
assessment; and (v)  development of 
districts’ capacity to report data to MOHSW and of 
use of such data at district and central government levels. 
Part B:
Strengthening Human Resources
Strengthening MOHSW’s capacity to: (i) develop and use e-classrooms for 
continuing professional education of health workers; (ii) facilitate the review and 
development of a curriculum to make trained nurses multi-skilled; (iii) institute improved 
career structures for health sector staff including medical officers and nurses hired on a 
contract basis; and (iv) develop a health worker posting policy to match staff skills with 
service delivery needs. 
Part C:
Improving Efficiency of Health Sector Financing, Financial Management and 
Planning
1. 
Development and implementation of a national health sector financing policy 
including assessments of: (i) the role of the public sector; (ii) efficiency in mobilization 
and allocation of public financing and strategies for ensuring sustainable financing; and 
(iii) alternative health financing instruments including social health insurance and 
community health financing. 
2. 
Strengthening the financial management system in the health sector and the 
Borrower’s medium-term sector expenditure program including support for the adoption 
and implementation of periodic sectoral expenditure reviews. 
Page  21
21
 
Part D:
National Referral Hospital Queen Elizabeth II
Support for the Borrower’s plan to develop the design, construction and 
equipping, with private sector participation, of a facility to replace its current national 
referral hospital through the provision of technical advisory services for the preparation 
of an environmental assessment and the management of the public-private process.  
Part E:
Medical Waste Management
Implementation of the National Medical Waste Management Plan including: 
(i) the acquisition of waste segregation and incineration equipment; (ii) development and 
implementation of public awareness campaigns; (iii) training of health sector workers; 
and (iv) the provision of protective clothing for medical waste handlers.   
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008. 
Page  22
22
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
(other than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding.   
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and 
works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3.  
Procurement from UN Agencies.
Goods (including HIV related goods), drugs 
and vaccines, regardless of cost, may be procured directly from Inter-Agency 
Page  23
23
 
Procurement Services Office (IAPSO), 
United Nation’s Children Fund (UNICEF), 
United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and World Health Organization (WHO) in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality-and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to prior approval of the 
Association. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants, the report on the qualifications 
and experience of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Association.  All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Page  24
24
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. 
Overall Project Implementation
The Borrower, through MOHSW, shall: 
(a) by February 15, 2006, take all measures necessary on its part to organize, in 
conjunction with the Association, a workshop for the launching of the Project which shall 
cover, 
inter alia
,
disbursement and procurement procedures, monitoring and evaluation 
indicators and detailed timetables for the implementation of the Project; 
(b) carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual, 
said manual to include, 
inter alia
,
the Borrowe
r’s medium-term expenditure framework,  
the National Waste Management Plan and implementation procedures thereof, a financial 
procedures manual, a procurement manual, monitoring guidelines and other related 
documents for the execution of the Project.  The Project Implementation Manual may be 
amended from time to time with the Association’s prior approval. In case of any conflict 
between the terms of the Project Implementation Manual and those of this Agreement, 
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail;  
(c) 
maintain until the completion of the execution of the Project within the 
MOHSW, in form and with functions and resources satisfactory to the Association; (i) a 
monitoring and evaluation unit; (ii) a project accounting unit; and (iii) a procurement 
unit; and  
(d)  
maintain until the completion of the execution of the Project, within 
MOHSW, competent staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications and experience shall 
at all times be satisfactory to the Association including the following specialists: (i) an 
operations manager; (ii) a financial manager; and (iii) a procurement manager. 
2. 
Annual Procurement Audits
The Borrower, through MOHSW, shall:  
(a)  
have a procurement audit carried out annually by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, the conditions of which are defined in more details in the 
Project Implementation Manual, to review procurement records and documentation 
(including statements of expenditures) as well as verifying the physical existence of 
goods, equipment and services, especially building construction and rehabilitation, 
acquired throughout the Project;  
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement audit report of 
Page  25
25
 
said auditors, of such scope and detail as the Association shall have reasonably  
requested; and   
(c)  
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
procurement records and documentation and the procurement audit thereof as the 
Association shall from to time reasonably request.  
3.  
Reports and Mid-term Review
(a)  
Reports 
The Borrower, through the MOHSW, shall: 
(i)  
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
performance indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association on or about January 31 of each 
year during Project execution, or such other date as the 
Association and the Borrower shall determine; (A) a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a)(i) of this paragraph 
 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and (B) a draft three-year rolling 
expenditure program for the subsequent year; and 
(iii) 
review with the Association and the Development Partners, by 
February 15 of each year during Project execution, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section.  The review shall cover, among 
other things: (A) the progress made in meeting the objectives of 
the Project; and (B) the Borrower’s overall performance in the 
execution of the Project.  Thereafter, the Borrower shall take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  26
26
 
(b) Mid-term 
Review 
The Borrower, through the MOHSW, shall: 
(i) 
no later than February 28, 2007 or such other date that the 
Borrower and the Association shall determine, carry out (jointly 
with the Association and the Development Partners), a mid-term 
review (which correlates to a third joint annual review) and 
evaluation of progress made towards the achievement of the 
Project’s objectives, including an evaluation of the progress 
achieved in meeting the targets agreed by the Borrower and the 
Association as necessary for the attainment of said Project 
objectives; and  
(ii) 
no later than September 30, 2008, submit to the Association an 
overall assessment for the results achieved in the execution of 
the Project and of the Borrower’s readiness to move into the 
third phase of the Program.  
Page  27
27
 
SCHEDULE 5
 
Performance Indicators 
The Performance Indicators for the Project shall include the indicators set forth 
below: 
1. 
Increased percentage of children fully immunized by 12 months of age. 
2. 
Increase in ante-natal clinic attendance. 
3. 
Increased percentage of deliveries assisted by trained provider. 
4. 
Increased percentage of the population within 2 hours walking distance of a 
health facility meeting national standards for service delivery. 
5. 
Increased percentage of Borrower and Christian Health Association of 
Lesotho health facilities staffed with standard number and type of qualified 
staff for the level of facility. 
6. 
Increased proportion of patients attending Queen Elizabeth II Hospital that 
have been referred by health service providers from other health facilities. 
7. 
Increased percentage of budget allocation for hospital equipment and 
maintenance. 
8. 
Increased percentage of budget allocated to district health management 
teams. 
9. 
Increased percentage of health sector budget that is expended by programs. 
10. Increased percentage of district/health service area health management 
information system reports received by due date. 
11. Reduced HIV prevalence among women 15-24 years of age. 
12. Reduced percentage
 of
health facilities reporting “one month stock-out” in 
any of the drugs in the essential drug list for the facility in the last 12 months. 
13. Increased percentage of facilities with functional incinerators.  
 
