                                          Documentof
                                      The World Bank

                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                          ReportNo.: 32003-LS




                           PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                             ONA

                                    PROPOSEDCREDIT

                         INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR4.5 MILLION
                      '      (USD6.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                  KINGDOMOF LESOTHO
                                             FOR

                    HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PHASE I1PROJECT

                                    SEPTEMBER 15,2005




HumanDevelopment 1
Country Department 1
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     ExchangeRate Effective April 11,2005


                        CurrencyUnit = SDR
                           0.16258841 = US$1
                             US$1.51 = S D R l


                                FISCAL YEAR
                              April 1   - March31



                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    Afi-ican Development Bank
AGOA   African Growthand Opportunity Act
AIDS   Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
AJPR   Annual Joint Program Reviews
ANC    Antenatal Care
APL    Adaptable Program Lending
ARV    Anti-RetroviralDrug
BOO    Build-Operate-Own
BOT    Build-Operate-Transfer
CARE   CARE
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CCPPP  CanadianCouncil for Public-Private Partnerships
CHAL   Christian HealthAssociation of Lesotho
CWIQ   Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DCI    Development Cooperation o f Ireland
DFBO   Design, Financing,Building and Operation
DfID   Department for International Development Bank
DHS    Demographic HealthSurvey
DHP    DistrictHealthPackage
DHMTs  District HealthManagement Teams
DOTS   Directly ObservedTreatments
EU     EuropeanUnion
FMIS   Financial Management and Information System
FMC    Financial Management Committee
FMRs   Financial Monitoring Reports
GDP    GrowthDomestic Product
GFATM  Global Fundto Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria
GOL    Government of Lesotho

                                                      FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

         HALE      Healthy Life Expectancy
         HIMS       Health Management Information System
         HIV        HumanImmunodeficiencyVirus
         HPSU       HealthPlanning and Statistics Unit
         HR         HumanResource
         HSR        Health Sector Reform
         HWP        Highlands Water Project
         IBRD       Intemational Bank for Reconstructionand Development
         I C B      International Competitive Bidding
         IDA        International Development Association
         IFC        International Finance Corporation
         IFMIS      IntegratedFinancial Management Information System
         I M C I    Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
         IMF        Intemational Monetary Fund
          LEB       Life Expectancy at Birth
          LRA       Lesotho RevenueAuthority
          MAP       Multi-Country HIV/AIDSProgram
          MDGs      MillenniumDevelopment Goals
          MOFDP     Ministryo fFinance and Development Planning
          M&E       Monitoring & Evaluation
          MOHSW     Ministryo fHealthand Social Welfare
          MTEF      Medium-TermExpenditure Framework
          MMR       Maternal Mortality Ratio
          NDSO      National Drugs and Supplies Organization
          NHTC      National Health Training Center
          NGOs      Non-Governmental Organizations
          OED       Operations Evaluation Department
          ovc       Orphans and Vulnerable Children
          P A D     Project Appraisal Document
          PAU       Project Accounting Unit
          PER       Public Expenditure Review
          PFI       Private Finance Initiative
          PMTCT     Prevention-of-Mother-to-Child-Transmission
          PPP       Public-Private Partnership
          PRS       Poverty Reduction Strategy
          PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
          QEIIH     Queen ElizabethI1Hospital
          SBD       Standard BiddingDocuments
          SEFF      Supplementary Emergency FinancingFacility
          SEP       Sector ExpenditureProgram
          TA        Technical Assistance
          TB        Tuberculosis


This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                                                               FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



UK          UnitedKingdom
UN          UnitedNations
UNAIDS      UnitedNations AIDS Program
UNDP        UnitedNations Development Program
UNECA       UnitedNations Economic Commission for Africa
UNFPA       UnitedNations Fundfor Population Activities
UNICEF      UnitedNations InternationalChildren Fund
USAID
us          UnitedStatesAgency for International Development
            United States
VAT         Value Added Tax
WHO         World Health Organization




                                Vice President:      Gobind Nankani
                  Country Managermirector:           Ritva S. Reinikka
                               Sector Manager:       Dzingai Mutumbuka
                           Task Team Leader:         Muhammad Ali Pate




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                                                          LESOTHO
                                         HealthSector ReformPhaseI1

                                                         CONTENTS


                                                                                                                                                 Page

A. STRATEGIC       CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                      ...................................................................  4
 1 . Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                 4
 2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                      4
 3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                                 5

B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
.                                           ...................................................................................................    5
 2. Program objective and phases................................................................................................                   6
 3. Project development objective and key indicators.................................................................                              7
 4 Project components ................................................................................................................
   .                                                                                                                                               8
 5 Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design.............................................................
   .                                                                                                                                               10
 6. Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection ...............................................................                               11

C IMPLEMENTATION
 .                                ..........................................................................................................       11
  1. Partnership arrangements..................................................................................................                    11
 2. Institutional and implementation arrangements................................................................                                  12
 3.  Monitoringand Evaluation...............................................................................................                       14
 4 . Sustainability.....................................................................................................................
           . . .                                                                                                                                   14
 5 . Critical risks and possiblecontroversial aspects...............................................................                               15
 6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                            15

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY                      ...................................................................................................      16
  1. Economic and financial analyses......................................................................................                         16
 2 . Technical...........................................................................................................................          16
 3.  Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................         17
 4.  Social.................................................................................................................................       18
 5. Environment......................................................................................................................              18
 6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................               19
 7.  Policy Exceptions andReadiness......................................................................................                          20

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background                            .........................................................      21

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                  .................25
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                    ........................................................................       26

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description         ......................................................................................        30

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................        35

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                .................................................................................        36

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                          .....................................    38

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements             ......................................................................................         44

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                 .............................................................................        48

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues       ............................................................................................         74

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                    .....................................................................       77

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File              .................................................................................        78

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits               ..............................................................................        80

Annex 14: Country at a Glance      .................................................................................................         81
Annex 15: Letter of Sector Policy     ...............................................................................................        83

                                        LESOTHO

                LESOTHO: HEALTH SECTOR REFORMPROJECT PHASE 2

                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                          AFRICA.

                                           AFTH1

 Date: September 15,2005                       Team Leader: MuhammadAli Pate
 Country Director: Ritva S. Reinikka           Sectors: Health (75%);Central government
 Sector Managerhlirector: DzingaiB.            administration (1O%);Health insurance
 Mutumbuka                                     (1O%);Sub-national government administration
                                               (5%)
                                               Themes: Healthsystem performance
                                               (P);Other financial andprivate sector
                                               development (S);Nutrition and food security
                                               (S);Other communicable diseases (S)
 Project ID: PO76658                           Environmental screening category: Partial
                                               Assessment
 Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan    Safeguard screening category: Limitedimpact
                                   Project Financing Data
 [ ] Loan   [XI Credit   [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:

 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Total Bank financing (US$m.): 6.50




 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                          6.50             6.50
 ASSOCIATION
 Other Financing                                  0.00             59.75            59.75
 Total:                                          27.00             66.25            93.25
 Program Cost                                    27.00             74.59            101.59




I




                                              1

 Annual          0.50      2.50      2.50       1.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
 Cumulative      0.50      3.00      5.50      6.50      6.50      6.50     6.50      6.50     6.50

 Expectedeffectiveness date: December 12,2005
 Expected closing date: March 31,2009
       the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?               rv,

 Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
 Re$ PAD D.7                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                        [ ]Yes [XINO
 Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
 Re$ PAD C.5                                                                         [XIYes [ ] N o

 Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
 Re$ PAD D.7                                                                         [XIYes [ ] N o

 Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, Technical Annex 3
 The overall development objective o fthe Phase I1o fthe Program (the Project) is to increase
 access to, and quality delivery of, essential health services. This development objective i s
 aligned with the overall goal o f the reform program to achieve a sustainable increase inaccess to
 quality preventive, curative and rehabilitative health services and achievement o f the Millennium
 Development Goals (MDGs).
~




 Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
 Annex 4
 The mainpriority areas for the project are:
   1) Essential Health Services Delivery: This will focus on improving the effectiveness o fthe
 deliveryo fpriorityhealth interventions at the district level.

   2) Strengthening HumanResources: This will support innovative approaches required to
 address the severe constraints inhuman resources.

   3) Improving efficiency o f health sector financing, financial management andplanning: This
 will support the further development and implementation o f a national health sector financing
 policy.

   4) Queen Elizabeth I1Hospital Component. This will support preparatory work for replacing
 the national referral hospital inPhase 111, through a public-private partnership contract. The
 project will support the implementation o f the medical waste management plan.

 Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
 This project has triggered OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment due to the potentialnegative
 environmental and social impacts o f medical waste as discussed insection 5. The safeguard
 screening category i s S2; and the environmental screening category is B. To address these
 impacts, the project (a) has prepared a National Medical Waste Management Plan dated March


                                                   2

 2005, and (b) will implementactivities related to (i) segregation and incineration; (ii)
                                                       waste
 protective clothing, (iii)training o fhealth workers, and (iv) public awareness. The National
 Medical Waste Management Planwas prepared inconsultation with representatives o f the
 Ministry o f Local Government, Maseru City Council, Ministry o f Health, and several health
 facilities. The National Medical Waste Management Plan has been disclosed inLesotho, and
 through the Bank's Infoshop.

ISignificant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:

iRe$ PAD C.7
 Boardpresentation:
 None.

 Loadcredit effectiveness:
 None.

 Covenants applicable to project implementation:
 1. Acquire/install new accounting software within six months after effectiveness.
  2. Maintain within MOHSW (i)       monitoring and evaluation unit; (ii) accounting unit;
                                                                        project
 and (iii)procurement unit.
           a
  3. Maintainwithin MOHSW the following specialists whose qualifications and experience shall
 at all times be satisfactory to the Association (i) operations manager; (ii)financial manager;
                                                   an                          a
 and(iii)procurement specialist/advisor.
           a
  4. The Government will cause MOHSW (PAU) to have its records, accounts and financial
 statements audited each year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending March 2006;
  5. P A Uwill submit separate quarterly FMR s, starting with the first quarter after effectiveness.
  6. The MOHSW shall organize an Annual Joint Program Review no later than February 15 o f
 each year to review the progress o f implementation o f the sector program and agree on the
 implementationplan andbudget for the subsequent year.
  7.The MOHSW shall submit to IDA and other development partners at least two weeks before
 the Joint Review: (a) an annual report summarizing the status o fthe key performance indicators,
 relevant surveys, special studies andlor Health Sector PER; and (b) a draft rolling three-year
 program for the subsequent year.




                                                   3

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsector issues

With a GDPper capita ofUS$ 570, Lesotho is better offthan many countries inSub-Saharan
Africa. However, despite average real GDP growth o f about 4% per year, 48.3% o f its 2 million
population still lives below the nationalpoverty line, and the country ranks 145thinthe United
Nations' Human Development Index (out o f 175 countries ranked in2002). The health status of
the population o f Lesotho appears to have declined inthe past decade after showing signs o f
improvement inthe early 1980s to mid-1990s. Although robust data are not available (Lesotho i s
undertaking its first Demographic and Health Survey this year), available evidence suggests that
average life expectancy at birthhas declined, and that poverty has increased and with it infant
mortality, under-five (U5) child mortality, and matemal mortality. Morbidity andmortality from
communicable diseases such as tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS andnon-communicable diseases
have all increased inrecent years. Obviously, the HIV/AIDS epidemic inLesotho (an estimated
29 % o f adults are HIVpositive) has contributed to these negative trends.

                           Table 1: Health Status Indicators for Lesotho

             Indicator
             Life Expectancy at birth                     52.5 years (LDS 2001)
             Infant Mortality                             81/1000 (2001)
            Under-5 Child Mortality                       113/1000 (2001)
            Maternal MortalityRate                        419/100,000 (2001)

           I Adult HIV/AIDS   Prevalence
             Tuberculosis new cases                     I 29 percent (2003)
                                                          609/100,000 (2003)             I

The Lesotho Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) has identified the following specific challenges
to the health sector: (i)
                        overcrowding o f Government health centers and under-utilization o f
Christian Health Association o f Lesotho (CHAL) facilities where costs are higher
(approximately half o fthe health facilities inthe country belong to CHAL); (ii) highcost o f
                                                                                  the
medical care to bothproviders and users; (iii)  the long distances households must travel to
medical facilities inmountain areas; and (iv) severe shortages o fhealth personnel, especially in
rural areas. The Government o f Lesotho's health sector reform program i s central to
strengthening health care delivery services, tackling the issues identified inthe PRS, inaddition
to dealing with other cross-cutting issues outlined inthe poverty reduction strategy.

2. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

Donor support to the Lesotho health sector has been through a sector-wide approach (SWAp),
with coordinated policy advice by partners, an agreed sector expenditure framework, harmonized
fiduciary systems and common performance indicators. The Bank has played a critical role in
facilitating the SWAp, as it has a comparative advantage and experience inthe area o f

' Data from MOHSW and Lesotho Demographic Survey 2001.


                                                  4

institutional development and the development o f systems that would lead to more coordinated
donor and government support to the health sector. The Bankwill complement the inputs o f
other partners, bringingits ability to inform macroeconomic and fiscal policy related to the
health sector, and experience and expertise inhealth financing.

The fact that there are few development assistance agencies supporting the health sector in
Lesotho also makes the Bank's role critical. The main financing agencies are the African
Development Bank (ADB), Development Cooperation Ireland (DCI) and IDA. UNagencies
such as WHO, UNICEF andUNFPA are also providing technical support, but they have small
country offices. D C I i s the one bilateral with health sector expertise incountry. The European
Union, which provided substantial support throughtechnical assistance duringthe first phase o f
the program, no longer provides such support.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

While the new CAS i s still being developed, consistent with Lesotho's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) of May 21, 1998; the World Bank has continued to support the Government's
strategy to reduce poverty and to improve the country's competitiveness through greater
integration into the sub-regional economy o f Southern Africa. A Joint African Development
Bank-World Bank Country Assistance Evaluation (2001) recommended that the World Bank
should aim for the following over the medium-term: (a) to reduce poverty and inequality by
focusing on the quality o f education andhuman capital development at all levels, and (b) to place
HIV/AIDS programs prominently on the agenda with the government. The Lesotho Poverty
ReductionStrategy (2004-2007) is built uponthree inter-related approaches: rapid employment
creation, delivery of poverty-targetedprograms and ensuringthat policies and legal frameworks
are conducive to full implementation o fthe priorities. The improvement o f public service
delivery and access to health care and social welfare are key priorities o f the PRS. The project
directly contributes to the achievement o f the GoL's priorities as outlined inthe PRS. The
Bank's new CAS-currently being developed-has            two overarching objectives: to achieve
sustainable poverty reduction andto improve the country's competitiveness inorder to support
employment creation.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The Government o fLesotho's long-term Health Sector Reform Program is supported by several
development partners. The Bank's financing is through a three-phased Adaptable Program Loan
(APL),whichwas approvedbythe Boardin2000. The PhaseIofthe ten-year APL was
implemented from 2000-2005. All the triggers for movingfrom Phase Ito Phase I1APL have
been achieved (refer to Annex 4). The proposedproject (Phase I1o f the APL) will buildon the
achievements o f the first phase and support the Second Phase o f the GOL's health sector reform
program which commencedinJanuary 2005. Details o f the long-term program are outlined in
the Phase IProject Appraisal Document, Report No: 19854-LS. The timeframe required to
realize sustainable institutional change, combined with the opportunity to tie allocations to
achievements, i s strongly supported through the APL.



                                                    5

2. Program objective and phases

The objective o f the Government o f Lesotho's health sector reform program, which i s ledby the
Ministryo fHealth and Social Welfare (MOHSW), is to achieve a sustainable increase in
access to quality preventive, curative and rehabilitative health care services in Lesotho.
This program's purpose serves the overall sectoral goals, as outlined at the inception o fthe
reform program: "(i)   universal coverage, so that every citizen will have access to essential health
care and social welfare services; (ii)  socialjustice, so that those ingreatest need will receive
particular attention; and (iii) so that every personno matter what their social standing in
                              equity,
society, will receive the same treatment, the only determining factor being their needfor health
and social welfare services." (GOL,MOHSWHealth Sector Round TableDiscussion: Building
Partnershipfor the Lesotho Health Sector Reform, March 1996)

The IDAprogram contributes to the reformprogramthrough a phased approach. PhaseIo fthe
APL (2000-2005) aimed to: (i)    establish institutional capacity to enable the MOHSW to plan,
implement and monitor a comprehensive sector reform program, and (ii)        expand the capacity o f
the public sector to respondto HIV/AIDS. The PhaseIproject achieved its objectives by
developing the MOHSW's capacity to collect and analyze information; formulate and assess
sectoral strategies for improving equity, quality and access; meet international standards for
financial management; monitor progress against an agreed workplan and measurable targets;
evaluate strategies; and attract andretain qualified staff. While the strengthening and
maintaining o f these capacities i s a continuous process, the achievement o f the APL Phase I
triggers signal the accomplishment o fthe objectives o fthe first phase o fthe program (see
Annex 4).

Phase I1o fthe APL (2005-2008), the project, i s focused on the policy and institutional reforms
requiredto achieve the reform objectives. The project will therefore support development o f
health financing policy and financing reforms to increase efficiency o fpublic expenditures,
exploration o fpro-poor mechanisms to improve the equity and sustainability o f sector financing,
out-sourcing to achieve efficiency gains; development o f a Performancemanagement system;
and the design o fmechanisms for more effective delivery o f essential health services at district
level and below. The project will also support preparations for replacing the national referral
hospital to improve efficiency and effectiveness inservice delivery at the central level.

The Phase I1APL provides an opportunity for MOHSW to demonstrate the capacities developed
duringthe first phase. Therefore, the operations andmanagement o fthe Ministryare expected to
reflect a strong emphasis on results-based planning, continual assessment andmodification o f
sector strategies and expenditures based on progress against the agreed performance indicators,
sound management o f human resources, decentralizationand more effective delivery o f essential
health services. The Annual Joint ProgramReview (AJPR) mechanism, inaugurated with Phase
I, continuetoprovidethebasisforagreementamongstakeholdersoneachyear'sannual
   will
workplan.

Phase I11(2008-2010) o f the APL will aim to achieve the full scale sector-wide implementation
of healthreform strategies for which there is established evidence o f effectiveness inimproving



                                                    6

efficiency o f resource allocation, pro-poor focus, sustainability and access to effective and
quality health services. The thirdphase will include the construction o fthe new national referral
hospital through a private finance initiative or public private partnership arrangement.

As outlined at the start o fthe APL, the durationof eachphase, and thus o fthe three-phase
program, i s indicative, as it i s the achievement o f defined targetdmilestones which trigger the
commencement o f each subsequent phase. The phasing o f the program, andthe intermittently
stipulating targets to be reachedbefore additional financing i s released, ensures that progress will
be closely monitored and approaches constantly reassessed.

3. Project development objective and key indicators

       The objectives o f the Project are to assist the Borrower inachieving a sustainable
increase inaccess to quality preventive, curative, and rehabilitative health services by increasing
access to, and quality delivery of, essential health services. The achievement o f the objectives o f
the reform program will be measured by progress against the following key performance
indicators - adopted by all Partners. These indicators were developed duringPhase Iand have
been refined for Phase 11.They will bereported annually by the Health Planning and Statistics
Unitto Government ofLesotho andits Partners:


    e  Increased percentage o f children fully immunized by 12 months o f age
    e   Increase inante-natal clinic attendance
    e  Increased percentage o f deliveries assisted bytrained provider
    e   Increased percentage o fthe population within 2 hours walking distance o f a health
        facility meeting national standards for service delivery
    e  Increased percentage o f GOL and C H A L health facilities staffed with standard number
        andtype o fqualified staff for the level o f facility
    e   Increased proportion of patients attending Queen Elizabeth I1(QEII)hospital that have
       been referred by health service provider from other health facilities
    e  Increased percentage o fbudget allocation for hospital equipment andmaintenance
    e   Increased percentage o fbudget allocated to district health management teams
    e   Increased percentage o f health sector budget that is expended by programs
    e   Increased percentage o f district/health service area H I M S reports received by due date
    e  ReducedHIV prevalence among women 15-24 years o f age
    e  Reducedpercentage o f health facilities reporting "one month stock-out" inany o f the
        drugs inthe essential drug list for the facility inthe last 12months
    e   Increased percentage o f facilities with functional incinerators

The above indicators are intermediate outcome indicators that can be tracked over the period o f
project implementation.

The transition from Phase I1to Phase I11will be triggered by attainment o f the following:
    e  Public-privatepartnership contract related to the new national referral hospital
       acceptable to IDA isJinalized. As Phase I11o f IDA financing is expected to facilitate




                                                    7

        replacement o f the national referral hospital (QEII), the strategy for ensuringit will be
         effectively managed has to be agreed.
        National healthflnancingpolicy approved. The GOL needs to clarify its objectives and
         strategies to attain fair and sustainable financing for health services, amidst emerging
        health insurance initiatives, user fees, out-sourcing and subventions to mission facilities.
        All district health management teams have control over their budgets and have authority
         to incur expenditures. Strengthening service delivery requires the full implementationo f
        the GOL decentralization strategy.
         Tuberculosis treatment success rate increasedfrom 52percent to 60percent.This trigger
         is intendedto represent strengthened service delivery. TB i s a leadingpublic health
         concem and yet cure rates have declined. Attaining the target implies improvements in
        planning, budgeting,pharmaceuticallogistics andhumanresource management.
        Disbursements of credit exceed 50percent of the totalproject amount. Additional
         financing under Phase I11will only bejustified ifresources are flowing against the reform
        program.

4. Project components

A detailed description o fthe healthsector reformprogram is outlinedinthe initialPAD (Report
No: 19854-LS); this has not substantially changed. The key elements o fthe program comprise:
(i) financingandmanagement,(ii) resourcedevelopment,(iii) health
   sector                                    human                                district
services, (iv) decentralization, (v) pharmaceuticals, (vi) partnerships and coordination, and (vii)
infrastructure. Phase I1will focus on key interventions that are achievable and have the potential
for greatest impact on quality and effectiveness o fhealth services inLesotho. Although IDA
financing will disburse against any o f the above components, IDA will complement the inputs o f
other partners by focusing its policy advice, knowledge sharing, supervision and monitoring in
the following areas:

EssentialHealth Services Delivery: Improvingthe effectiveness o f the delivery o f priority health
interventions at district and community levels i s key to reaching the reform objectives. De-
linkage o f public health service management from management o fhospitals at the district level
will go a longway towards improvingthe allocation o fresources andbetterprimarycare
services. This builds on reforms introduced inPhase Iincluding the specification o f an essential
package o f services. There has to be an enabling policy environment with clarification o froles
and responsibilities, buildingupon the lessons learnedfrom the pilot districts, institutional
restructuring at both central and district levels, and implementation support at the district level.
Thus, the program will support establishment o f district health management teams (DHMTs) in
all the ten districts and provide support for office space, Information Technology (IT) equipment,
training and transport so that the DHMTs function properly. This is consistent with the thrust o f
the GOL decentralization process. The delivery o f essential drugs and their rational use will be
supported as part o f the essential health service package. A rapid assessment o f the scope for
enlarging community and household involvement inthe delivery o f health services will be
conducted and the program will provide support to implement the recommendations from the
assessment. Within the context o fthe Health Management Information System (HIMS), the
MOHSW will support abottom-up process o f capacity development to ensure that quality data




                                                     8

are reported from the decentralized levels and that incentives for proper data use are provided at
all levels.

Strengthening HumanResources: Phase I1will buildon the analytical work done on human
resources inthe first phase. A human resource needs assessment and strategic planhavebeen
developed. The program will support innovative approaches required to address the severe
constraints inhuman resources, such as continuing education opportunities for contracted
medical officers and nurses andcareer advancement opportunities. According to the MOHSW
HumanResources Development and Strategic Plan (2005-2025), the Government o f Lesotho i s
prepared to finance incremental recurrent cost o f posts that are technicallyjustified inthe health
sector ifthe MOHSW can redress the existing deficiencies incareer management and the
perceived inefficiencies in allocations of existing workforce. Reforms are targeted at instituting
better career structures for the healthworkforce, especially the nursing cadres. The MOHSW
will assess the training requirements for staff inthe sector--in light o fthe skillrequirements and
attritionprojections--and support ways to align the training programs with new career
management structures developed.

ImprovingEfficiency o fHealth Sector Financing. FinancialManagement and Planning: The
program will support the further development and implementation o f a national health sector
financing policy. The health financing policy will address the role o f the public sector,
efficiency inmobilization and allocation o fpublic financing and strategies for ensuring
sustainable financing. DuringPhase I,     a consultancy outlined a roadmap for development o f a
financing policy. The second phase project will support the further development o f the policy,
leading to approval by the government. The work already done indeveloping a Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) will provide a sound basis for joint financial support to the
sector inthe second and subsequentphases. The project will support development o f alternative
health financing instruments and assessment o f the feasibility o f such options inthe Lesotho
context. Risk-pooling arrangements, including social health insurance, and community health
financing will be assessed. Buildingon developments duringthe first phase, the project will
further strengthen the financial management systemandthe medium-term sector expenditure
program process linked to the overall GOL MTEF. Alternative strategies for resource allocation
to improve service delivery will be tested and monitored. For example, the effects o fproviding
additional resources for basic service provision at the district/health service area levels can be
monitored and related to performance o f the decentralized entities inservice delivery. With new
infrastructure development, more resources will be allocated to equipment and infrastructure
maintenance. Given the need to strengthen budget performance, Sectoral Expenditure Reviews
will also be supported.

National Referral Hospital Queen Elizabeth I1(OEII): The government i s committed to
replacingthe present QEI1hospital which should serve as the apex institution for the referral
system. QEII accounts for one-third o f sector expenditures, but its contribution to health
outcomes is limited. The construction o fthe new referral hospital will be tiedto the necessary
reforms inhospital administration and management under the public-private partnership
arrangement. IDA'Sengagement inthe replacement o f the QEI1will help to ensure that the new
facility i s designed to deliver an affordable and cost-effective package o f services, and i s built
andoutfitted to a financially sustainable level. Thus, there is scope for increasing efficiency o f



                                                   9

public expenditures inhealth ifQE I1hospital i s more effectively and efficiently managed. The
construction o f the QE I1hospital inthe absence o f key hospital management reforms could
jeopardize the gains made duringPhase Iand may not lead to improved efficiency inresource
utilization inthe new hospital. Fundingfor construction within Phase I11o f the APL will be
triggered by commitment to reforminghospital management.

IfaPublicPrivatePartnership (PPP) or PrivateFinanceInitiative(PFI) option is determined as
feasible and desirable, then the Phase I11could support part o f the government's contribution in
the PFIor PPP contracts. DuringPhase 11, the InternationalFinance Corporation (IFC) will
provide advisory services to the Government, and assist indetermining the feasibility o f the PPP
or PFIoptions. Phase I1will support preparatory activities for the new hospital, including an
environmental assessment and technical assistance for the Government to manage the PPP or PFI
transaction process. The second phase o f the reformprogram comprises limited support for
infrastructure development. Anticipated inputs are based on the long term infrastructure plan
developedunder Phase I, focus on medical equipment andmaintenance systems at the
                            and
district level.

Medical Waste Management: Phase I1will support the implementation o f a medical waste
management plan inthe health sector. The MOHSW has prepared a National Medical Waste
Management Plan, March 2005, and will implement provisions regarding (i)       equipmentsuch as
for waste segregation and construction o f incineration sites (works), (ii)
                                                                          public awareness
campaigns, (iii) trainingofhealthworkers, and(iv) provision ofprotective clothing for medical
waste handlers. The Environmental HealthUnit o f the MOHSW will be responsible for
implementing these provisions.

5. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design

The preparation o f the ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) for the Phase IAPL was
initiated early so that the lessons learned duringPhase Icould be incorporated into the design o f
the Phase 11. The main lessons learned which have informed the design o fPhase I1include:

a) Country ownership and commitment to the reformprocess i s key to successfbl
implementation o f the program. Phase Iwas preceded by extensive consultation among
stakeholders on the vision for the reforms. Implementationo f Phase Ienabled more ownership
o f the reform process to be owned by the senior management team, but staff turnover i s very
high. PhaseI1will continue to nurturethe ownership o fthe reformprocess beyond the senior
management team inthe MOHSW to service delivery staff, Ministryo f Finance and
Development Planning(MOFDP), Public Service, Cabinet and civil society. The medium-term
sector program developed from the national health policy and strategic planwill ensure that the
reform program remains consistent with the Government's strategic vision.

b) Behavior change takes time. The implementation o fPhase Itook longer than originally
planned. The time to produce and endorse planned outputs took longer than expected, such as
policy decisions and actions inareas such as humanresource for health and decentralization.
Phase I1will focus more intensely on a narrower set o f identified priorities and endeavor to set
more realistic timelines for achieving objectives based on experience duringPhase I.



                                                 10

c) Capacity strengthening mustbe continuous. Significant progress was made inplanning and
financial management capacity duiingPhase I.     This capacity is requiredto ease the constraints to
effective management o fpublic healthprograms and service delivery. Phase I1will utilize these
now existing capacities so that they can be strengthened andinstitutionalizedwithinthe
MOHSW. Accounting systems and procedures, procurement, andmonitoring and evaluation
represent some o f the areas where capacity has beenbuilt.

d) Humanresource issues are critical. Healthcare delivery is humanresource intensive and
institutional capacity cannot be achieved without sufficient humancapacity. Phase Isupported
analyses o f health manpower (numbers, skills, deployment and motivation). DuringPhase 11,
innovative strategies for retention andperformance improvement of health sector workers will be
tested. For example, Phase I1project will support an incentive package for health workers
deployed inremote areas.

e) Monitoring and evaluation. The continued monitoring and evaluation o f the reform process i s
key to assessingthe impact o f the reform strategies. DuringPhase I1o f the reforms there will be
a greater emphasis on integrating the M&E system with management and decision making at all
levels. Program planning will be linkedto monitorable indicators inline with the Strategic Plan.
There is a need to continually assess the extent to which improvements inhealth sector processes
improve health services delivery. To ensure that the reforms have the desired effect,
stakeholders need to remain aware o fthe status o f service delivery targets andhealth outcomes
and consider whether strategies being implemented are having the intended effects.

6. Alternativesconsideredandreasons for rejection

Duringthe preparationfor PhaseIo fthe APL, alternativeIDAfinancing instrumentswere
considered. A Specific Investment Credit or Sector Investment and Maintenance Credit were
both considered, however, the timeframe required to realize sustainable institutional change,
combined with the opportunity to tie additional allocations to achievements, is strongly
supported by the APL. The flexibility o f the APL aligns with the sector-wide approach and
allows the program to continually adapt to lessons learned.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

The reform program was designed employing intensive consultation with intemal and external
stakeholders ledby the MOHSW. The GOL,MOHSWHealth Sector Round TableDiscussion:
Building Partnershipfor theLesotho Health Sector Reform, held in March I996 first proposedto
develop a single, comprehensive sector development program to which all partners would
contribute. Joint missions have become standard, andAnnual Joint Program Reviews (AJPRs)
have been conducted since 1999. Thejoint review meetings provide a forum for all stakeholders
inthehealthreformprogramto review progress inimplementation andagree on an
implementationprogram for the subsequent year.

The fifthAJPR, which was held inJanuary 2005, enabled all partners to appraise a
comprehensive three-year sector expenditure program. The expenditure program was developed


                                                 11

based on the sector's strategic priorities and will be the basis for each partner's parallel financing
to the sector inthe short-term. Inthe long term, an agreed sector expenditure program should
provide the basis for pooling o f funds when common systems and procedures are fully
developed.

The key service delivery partner, CHAL, has signed an interimpartnership agreement with the
MOHSW. Duringthe second phase, a formal contract i s expected to be signed. The formal
contract should identify the resource transfers that C H A L will expect and the service delivery
outputs that will be expected by the MOHSW.

TheForumo fHealthDevelopment Partners-including            the Development Cooperation Ireland,
EuropeanUnion, US Government, WHO, UNICEF, UNDP, the African Development Bank, and
the World Bank--- has signed a Statement o f Intent insupport o f the comprehensive sector-wide
approach (SWAp), andhas committed to greater harmonization, encompassing the development
anduse o fcommon systems, procedures andperformance monitoring indicators. The agreed
upon Terms o f Reference mandates that the Forummeets once a month, and sends
representatives to the MOHSW Senior Management Team meetings every six weeks. The
Forumis also preparinga Code o fConduct to be signed betweenthe MOHSW and the Health
Development Partners.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

Phase Ifocused on strengthening institutional capacity within the MOSHW. Progress was made
inbuildingthe capacityofMOHSW, especially inthe HealthPlanningand Statistics Unit
(HPSU), to coordinate and monitor the SWAP through quarterly meetings and annualjoint
reviews. A financial management information system has been developed and strengthened with
qualified staff. The procurement unit within the MOHSW has also been strengthened with
defined operatingprocedures, manuals and trained staff, As a result o f these gains, the senior
management team o f the MOHSW i s ingood position to continue to be responsible for
implementationof the reform program andthe project. The main focal unit for the project will
continue to be the Director of Health Planning and Statistics Unit. This arrangement will enable
consolidation o fthe gains made ininstitutional development under Phase Iand i s consistent with
harmonizationobjectives.

Financial Management: DuringPhase Ithe MOHSW capacity was strengthened with the
introduction o freforms infinancial management and the development o f Financial Management
and Information System (FMIS). At the beginningo fPhaseI, mandate o fthe MOFNP in
                                                                  per
support o f greater harmonization, a Project Accounting Unit (PAU) was established at the
MOHSW to manage all external financing - replacing individual Project Management Units.
The PAUmanages and reports upon expenditures to IDA, the African Development Bank,
Development Cooperation Ireland, WHO and UNICEF . Commonprocedures are employed and
common FinancialMonitoring Reports will be introduced. The PAUi s adequately staffed with
an accountant and assistants. The Internal Controls/Financial Procedures Manual developed
duringPhaseIwill continue to be usedduringPhase 11. Annual audits encompass all ofthe
funds managedby the PAUand are being regularly conducted.




                                                 12

A FinancialManagement Committee (FMC) isresponsible for overseeing financial management
across the Ministry, monitoring the work of the PAUandthe technical assistance (TA) it
receives, providingsupport and guidance, and ensuring that the recommendations made are
giventimely considerationbythe relevant authorities.

While the development budget i s well managed by the PAU, financial management o f the
recurrentbudget remains a concern. Although systems were established inPhase I,the absence
o f a Financial Controller, combined with frequent rotation to other ministries o f accountants who
are trained inthe MOHSW, undermines the aim o f moving towards budget support. A Country
FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) for Lesotho i s still to be scheduled. While the area
o f Financial Management has seenrapid growth and development inthe last few years, there i s
still a general lack o f capacity and experience across government.

Disbursements: The project will disburse against the development budget portion o fthe annually
agreed-upon comprehensive medium-term Sector Expenditure Program (a three-year rolling
expenditure framework). The financing program will be finalized inJanuary o f each year at the
Annual Joint Program Review (AJPR) -- inpreparation for the new fiscal year which commences
first April. IDA will continue to employ existing disbursement procedures (i.e. Direct Payments,
Replenishment o f the Special Account, and Special Commitments), but eligible expenditures will
include all items inthe agreed-upon program. It i s expected that the GOL will, as much as
possible, avoid financing activities outside the program because the agreed sector expenditure
framework will be the basis for IDA'Sfinancing.

The PAUwill maintain bank accounts as follows: (i)      a Current Account inMaloti ina
commercial bank, to which draw downs from the Special Account will be credited for project
financing and administrative expenses; and (ii)   a U S Dollar Special Account for all project
components. The Special Account will be held at the Central Bank of Lesotho, which is
acceptable to the Bank, and managed, by the PAU.

Procurement: A Procurement Unit(PU), headed by an experienced Procurement Specialist, was
established under Phase Io f the Program. Although procurement procedures have not yet been
harmonized across all agencies and GOL, the PUcoordinates and manages procurement financed
by all o fthe partners referenced above. The PAUand ProcurementUnitwork closely together.
Procurement procedures and a manual have been developed and the procurement staff trained in
their use. A procurement review, conducted by IDA during Phase I, the procurement
                                                                       found
system satisfactory.

InPhase11,the PUwillwork withthe HPSUto develop Annual ProcurementPlans for the
comprehensive Sector Expenditure Program, initially focusing only on the development portion
of the budget, but gradually expanding to encompass the entire program. The Procurement Plan
will be updatedat least annually, or as required, to reflect the actualproject implementation
needs andimprovements ininstitutional capacity. The IDA Phase 2 APL financing is expected
to be declared Effective inthe final quarter o f the GOL fiscal year 2005/06. A Procurement
Plan, which encompasses the items to be financed under the Credit duringthat period, has been
agreed betweenthe Borrower and the Project Team.




                                                  13

Items purchased with IDA financing will be procured inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans andIDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers'' dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. DuringPhase 11, partners will work
to define common procurement arrangements consistent with the GOL effort to reform and
harmonize its procurement procedures.

3. Monitoring and Evaluation.

Significant improvements were witnessed inM&E over Phase I.Routine HIMS, sentinel
surveillance andreporting have all been strengthened. A Health Sector Reforms M&EPlanhas
beenproduced and endorsed bypartners. It describes standards for structures, responsibilities,
information flow, reports and dissemination. The Plan also documents the agreed-upon
performance indicators for monitoring the reforms. The Annual Joint Program Review (AJPR)
process and quarterly M&Emeetings will continue to focus on tracking progress on achieving
agreed milestones andrefinement o fthe milestones as the reform program evolves. The key
performance indicators will be included inthe milestones for reporting by the MOHSW to all
partners on annual basis at the AJPR.

The M&E unit inthe PlanningUnit is responsible for tracking the performance indicators and
preparingthe M&Ereports. Phase I1will support a bottom-up development o f capacity for data
collection, collation, analysis and onward reporting at the distridhealth service area level in
addition to maintaining the capacity built at the M&Eunit. The first ever Lesotho Demographic
and Health Survey (LDHS), which will be completed in2005, will provide a long-awaited basis
for routine evaluation o f health status inthe future.

4. Sustainability

The Government's commitment to the program has been sustained through the first
phase and its ownership o fthe process reinforced at the annualjoint reviews. The senior
management team inthe MOHSW, under the leadership o f the Principal Secretary,
assumed primaryresponsibility for program implementation duringthe first phase. Despite
changes at the senior level inthe MOHSW, and also amongst the development partners, the
objectives o f the first phase o f the reform program have been accomplished. With development
o f the sector-wide approach andthe requisite systems and procedures, the sustainability o f the
reform program i s considered highly likely. The strengthened financial management systems
and development o f a medium-term sector program and budget that i s linked to sector priorities
(and, ultimately, the GOL's Medium-Term Expenditure Framework MTEF)) also contribute
towards sustainability.




                                                   14

Risks                                             RiskMitigationMeasures                       Risk
                                                                                               Rating

HIV/AIDS prevalence inLesotho may                 Conti,nuedIDA involvement, through a         S
continue unabated and undermine the               complementary Technical Assistance, to
health sector's contribution to better            support implementationo fthe national
outcomes                                          HIV/AIDS program.
Institutional capacity, while improved            Continued focus on institutional             S
duringPhaseI, weak and results in development andprioritization o fhuman
                 remains
delayed implementation o f Phase 11.              resources
Government o f Lesotho not able to sustain        Comprehensive budget financing by all        M
its budget allocation to the health sector.       partnersbased on developedmedium-
                                                  term program will help ensure that sector
                                                  priorities are recognized and receive
                                                  adequate attention.
Private medical aid scheme for civil              Involvement o fMOHSW and inclusion           S
servants may negatively distort health            ofhealth sector inMTEFpilot will
sector spending away from basic services          ensure any adverse impact on sector
to higher level services and may not meet         priorities i s seen early.
expectations o f civil servants.
Investment ina new QEI1hospital could             Hospital construction will be linked to      M
leadto greater allocative andtechnical            progress inreforms. Moreover, the
inefficiencies.                                   build-operate -transfer scheme o f PPP
                                                  ensures that the hospital i s not overbuilt.
Overall Risk Rating                                                                            S

6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

Conditions o f effectiveness: None.

Legal Covenants:
e       Acquire/install new accounting software within three months after effectiveness.
e       Maintain within the MOHSW a functioning (i)        monitoring and evaluation unit; (ii)
        project accounting unit; and (iii)procurement unit.
                                            a
e       Maintain within MOHSW the following specialists whose qualifications and experience
        shall at all times be satisfactory to the Association (i)  an operations manager; (ii)a
        financial manager; and (iii)  a procurement specialist/advisor.
e       The Government will cause MOHSW (PAU) to have its records, accounts and financial
        statements audited each year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending March
        2006; P A Uwill submit separate quarterly Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs), starting
        with the first quarter after effectiveness.
e       The MOHSW shall organize an Annual Joint Program Review (AJPR) no later than
        February 15 o f each year to review the progress o f implementation o f the sector program
        and agree on the implementation plan and budget for the subsequent year.


                                                   15

a       The MOHSW shall submit to IDA and other development partners at least two weeks
        before the Joint Review: (i) annual report summarizing the status o fthe key
                                       an
        performance indicators, and (ii)draft rolling three-year expenditureprogram for the
                                           a
        subsequent year.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicand financialanalyses

The economic analysis shows that the project hews closely to KIA's and the government's
strategy o f reducing poverty and strengtheningeconomic integration through a healthier labor
force. The multiple rationales o f improving allocative efficiency, improving technical efficiency,
enhancing sustainability, and improving equity continue to be valid under the Phase I1APL. The
analysis consideredvarious project altematives and concluded that, giventhe country's disease
burden, especially amongthe poor, further health investmentsare necessary, andthat bothpublic
and private sectors should be involved, increasingly through more efficient contracting
mechanisms. While focusing on cost-effective district health services remains important, the
government's desire to replace the aging Queen Elizabeth I1Hospital is equally critical, more so
because, aside from direct patient benefits, such investment has ripple effects interms o ftraining
(including continuing medical education), research, the production o f the country's standards and
norms inhospital service, andthe testing o f sustainable financing mechanisms. Towards this
end, the analysis considered different options o freplacing QEIIand, based on discussions with
senior government leaders and staff o fthe IntemationalFinance Corporation (IFC), it was
deemed that an innovative public/private partnership can be arranged under a "build-operate-
transfer" scheme. Thus, under Phase I1APL, the project will focus on continuing institutional
and systems strengthening, while paving the way for the needed hospital sector reform so that,
byPhase111,the QEIIcanbe constructed usinga mix o f funding (private sector + government).

The analysis o f government budget trends shows that allocations to the health sector are not
under threat and that the spending patterns, interms o f functional expenditure shares, appear
reasonable. However, budget overspending insome cost centers, and under-spending inothers
(chiefly district health services), is a cause o f concern, as i s the poor policy and institutional
framework o fthe user fee system. Thus, a trigger for Phase I11i s the approval o f a sector
financing policy. The sector expenditure program should continue to reflect priorities and the
costed be within the ceiling ofthe MOFDP and the commitments o f development partners.

2. Technical

The Health Sector Reform Program supports keythemes that are essential for improving access
to health services and quality o f care provided.

Appropriate role o f the public sector: The role o f the public sector inthe provision of services i s
beingre-examinedwith the formalization o f agreement betweenthe public sector and CHAL and
consideration o f a public-private partnership option for the new Queen Elizabeth I1hospital.
Improving health financing: The development o f a medium term health sector strategy and
expenditure program linkedto sector priorities, coupled with the establishment of decentralized



                                                    16

cost centers and a financial information systemfor tracking expenditures, sets the stage for
redefining allocation mechanisms to improve efficiency of public health expenditures and equity.
The Programwill support development of ahealth sector financing policy andtesting o f
approaches to improve sustainable financing, including risk poolingmechanisms, and the
expansion o f community-based financing schemes.

Service delivery: The Programwill support the delivery o f a package o f basic health services at
district level and sub-district levels. The essential health services package, which was defined in
Phase I,links to all the focus areas o f the reforms and will drive the reform agenda. The
provision o f these essential services will necessitate investments ininfrastructure, equipment and
training, the setting o fnational drugpolicies, the delivery o fpharmaceutical supplies, and
ensuring that there are adequate humanresources at the service delivery points.

3. Fiduciary

Financial Management: The existing financial management arrangements will be retained. The
finance function at the Project Accounting Unit (PAU) inthe MOHSW has 3 Accountants, under
a qualified Finance Manager. All three accountants have had training on Bank procedures.
Continuing training will obviously be required to enhance proficiency inaccounting. The PAU
will continue to employ the financial management manual developedunder Phase Iand
appraised as acceptable to the Bank. The project complies with the relevant Bank policies
(OP/BP 10.02). The requirements include the need to establish internal controls andproper
accounting procedures, which are documented inan OperationalManual. The assessedManual
includes general administrative procedures, financial management procedures, staffing
requirements, identification o f accounting and auditing standards to be adhered to by the project,
project reporting andmonitoring, procurement procedures, procedures for banking, and
procedures for the management o f cash.

The basis o f accounting is the cashbasis, per Government o f Lesotho regulations. The current
recordkeepingfiling system was found to be satisfactory, however, particular attentionwill need
to be taken inthe maintenance andtimely updatingo f the Fixed Assets Register. Contracts
Management is currently based on a spreadsheetrecord detailing all contracts awarded, amounts
o f the contracts, and existing unfilfilled commitments. Controls will be required over the
awarding o f contracts, as well as to ensure that payments are made only for certified work. Some
form o f Contract Status Report will be prepared quarterly as part ofthe FMRs.

There has been recent move to improve the effectiveness o fthe internal audit function. The
Accountant General, not so long ago, established an internal audit team, which has started
working with the PAU. The team is headed by a retired member o f the Accountant General's
staff andhas some trained auditors, however, its effectiveness will only be measured with time.

The proposedfinancial management arrangements for the project meet the Bank'sminimum
requirements for financial management.
Procurement: The Procurement Unit, established during the Phase IAPL,i s responsible for all
procurement. This Unitprovides the different departments within the MOHSW with the fbll
spectrum o f the procurement services to ensure that necessary resources such as civil works,



                                                  17

goods and commodities (non-health and health sector goods), consulting andnon-consulting
services are acquired on time, and ina transparent andfair manner, to enable realization o fthe
H S W objectives, taking into consideration the requirements o f the laws o f the Kingdom o f
Lesotho and the agreements entered into with differentdonor agencies. The Bank carried out a
procurement post review in2004, and recommended an improvement inthe Overall Riskrating
from "High Risk" to "Average", considering that appropriate procurement functions hadbeen
established and qualified staff are available to carry out procurement duties. Inaddition, the
following actions are being taken to redress the weaknesses identified duringthe review: (i)  the
filing system is being updated according to the actionplan, the update shouldbe completed
before project effectiveness; (ii)project manual (PIM) i s being updatedto reflect Phase I1o fthe
Program; (iii) procurement i s now part o f the payment decision, acting as a control, with regard
to the applicationo fthe general and special conditions o fcontract; and (iv) the PMRtable
"Report 3-By'was modified during appraisal to add, after the contract #, the currency and the
contract amount. This will enable the linkingand cross checking o f this table with the "Contract
ExpenditureReport".

4. Social

The Health Sector Reform Programwas designed through an extensive participatory approach,
with the involvement of key stakeholders including health sector staff, professional bodies, and
civil society and community members. A series of Regional Consensus Meetings were held
duringthe design o fthe program, under the leadership o fthe senior management team inthe
MOHSW. The feedback from the Consensus Meetings resulted inrevisions to the reform plans,
strategies andpriorities for action. The gTHAnnual Joint Program Review (AJPR) o f the health
sector, which served as the appraisal o f the second phase o f the program, includedparticipants
from all key stakeholders -encompassing civil society. Consistent with the aims o f the reform
program, the project will support hrther decentralizationo f decision makingandresource
allocation that will lead to improved service delivery inthe rural areas.

The most vulnerable groups are the elderly, the disabled, female- and child-headed households,
and orphans. Gender i s also an important dimension inhealth: women carry the greatest
HIV/AIDSburden. Estimates for 15 to 24-year-olds show that 38.1 percent o fyoung women
have HIV infection, compared to only 17.4 percent among men inthe same age group. Because
o f migrant labor, almost 54 percent ofhouseholds are female-headed. To ease these
socioeconomic and geographic differences inhealth access and status, Phase I1will focus more
strongly on: the continuing provision o f essential public health interventions which address the
most prevalent ailments of the poor; providing much needed skilled health workers incurrently
underserved areas, as noted inthe analysis above; testing alternative strategies for resource
allocation that factor inpoverty incidence and the health needs o f priority population groups
(women, children, the elderly); establishment o f risk-pooling arrangements, such as social health
insurance and community financing schemes; and more intensive monitoring o fproject benefits.
The prevalence o fHIV among women is one o fthe keyprogram performance indicators.

5. Environment

Taking a long-term view o f Lesotho's health sector needs, it was determined that safe medical
waste management would be of critical importance. Therefore, duringthe preparation o f the


                                                  18

second phase o f the APL, a NationalMedical Waste Management Plan, March 2005, was
developed to ensure that investmentsto be funded under the second and thirdphase of the APL
properly address medical waste management needs. This plan includes recommendations
pertaining to: (i)    the enhancement o f the legal and regulatory framework for health care waste
management; (ii) o fhealthcare workers; (iii)
                       training                                       provision of equipment and protective
clothing for staffhandling medical waste; and (iv) increasingpublic awareness and resource
mobilization for medical waste management. This planwas discussed with relevant stakeholders
at a workshop inMaseruheld on February 22,2005. The plani s designed to mitigate negative
impacts on public healthdue to the (a) mismanagement o f healthcare wastes such as sharps,
pathological waste, pharmaceutical waste, biological waste and hazardous waste; and (b)
transmission of diseases (hepatitis B (HBV), Hepatitis C (HCV) and the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) through injuries from contaminated sharps.

Phase I1will support implementationofthe National Medical Waste Management Plan as
described previously. Support for these activities is intended to improve medical waste
management through (a) segregation, transport, appropriate treatment and disposal at various
types o fhealth care facilities, (b) choice o f sustainable technologies for treatment and disposal,
(c) raising public awareness regardingthe dangers to publichealth as a result o f exposure to
medical waste, and the potential for groundwater and soil pollution. The Environmental Health
Unitofthe MinistryofHealthwill overseethe implementationo fthe project-supported
activities.

6. Safeguard policies

This project has triggered OP 4.01 EnvironmentalAssessment due to the potentialnegative
environmental and social impacts o f medical waste as discussed insection 5. The safeguard
screening category i s S2; and the environmental screening category i s B. To address these
impacts, the project has prepared a National Medical Waste Management Plan dated March 2005
as described above. The National Medical Waste Management Plan was prepared inconsultation
with representatives o fthe Ministryo fLocal Government, Maseru City Council, Ministry o f
Health, and several health facilities. The Plan has beenpublicly disclosed at Government o f
Lesotho's website, and at the Bank's Infoshop.

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                              Yes                     N o
  Eiivironniental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                [XI                     [I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                             [I                     [x 1
  PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                                  [I                     [x 1
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                   [I                     [x 1
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                     [I
                                                                                            [I                     [x 1
                                                                                                                   [x 1
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                 .
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                      [I                     [x 1
  Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                               [I                     [XI
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/CP 7.60)*                                                [I                     [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                       [I                     [x 1

* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination ofthe parties' claims on the
disputed areas.


                                                             19

7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness

There are no policy exceptionsbeingsought.




                                          20

                      Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                             LESOTHO: HealthSector ReformPhaseI1

Background,economic trends and issues: Unlikemany sub-Saharan countries, Lesothohas a
reasonably sound macroeconomic environment, historically low net extemal debt (three-fourths
o f it concessional), strong extemal liquidity, and high fiscal revenues. Annual GDP grew by 3.2
percent and 4.0 percent in2001 and 2002, respectively. Mucho f the growthhas been spurred by
the construction o f the World Bank-supported Lesotho Highlands Water project (with PhaseI
completed inMarch 2004); the royalties that Lesotho receives from supplying water to South
Africa will also provide significant revenues to the country over the coming years. The
manufacturing sector is also contributing to growth, especially textile and clothing exports, and
Lesotho has become the largest such exporterunder the African Growth and Opportunity Act
(AGOA) o fthe U.S. Government. GDPis expected to grow by4.3 percent per year between
2002 and 2006 (World Bank, 2004), and with population growing at a slower pace (1.5 percent
per year), per capita GDP i s expected to increase by 2.9 percent annually over the medium-term.
Debt service remains at about 10percent o f exports of goods and services. The implementation
o f fiscal reforms such as the establishment o f the Lesotho Revenue Authority (LRA)and the
introductiono f value added tax in2003 has increased revenues and improved the country's fiscal
balance. The fair and peaceful general elections o f May 2002 have contributed to socioeconomic
stability, strengthened democracy, and bolsteredinvestment confidence.

Despite these economic gains, Lesotho remains a poor country, ranking among the lowest in
terms o f human development index (145thout of 175 countries ranked in2002). About 80
percent o f the population lives inrural areas, many inmountainous settings, relying largely on
subsistence farming and livestock. About half (48.3 percent) o f its 2 millionpeople live below
the poverty line2. Income inequality i s among the highest inthe world: the Gini coefficient i s
0.632. Per capita income isjust US$530 in2001. The country is land-locked and completely
surrounded by, and highly dependent economically on, SouthAfrica. Unemployment is
increasing, inpart due to the retrenchments inSouth African mines; consequently, remittances
from Lesotho miners are declining. More recently, garment firms have begun to migrate to
lower-labor-cost countries, following the implementation o f World Trade Organization (WTO)
trade agreements. Ontop o fthese, the agricultural and livestock sectors have beenravagedby
natural disasters (drought, heavy rains, andhail and frost insome areas, occurring three years in
a row) and the ever-worsening HIV/AIDS epidemic that i s causing labor shortages infarms, and
possibly migrant labor that Lesotho heavily depends on. This has worsened food security, with
as many as 900,000 people affectedby famine in2002. The food problem has been eased
somewhat by an appeal for humanitarian assistance, but the drought has made economic
recovery difficult. Most importantly, human and institutional capacity has historically been
weak and continues to be a major constraint to development, especially inthe social sectors

The health status o fthe population o f Lesotho appears to have declined over the past decade after
showing signs o f improvement inthe early 1980s to mid-1990s. Average life expectancy at birth
has declined (presumably due to HIV/AIDS), poverty has increased and with it the infant


 GOLdoes not have an official measure ofpoverty, though it is conjectured that one-half to three-fourths ofthe
population may be considered "poor" and that one-half may be considered "ultra-poor".


                                                      21

mortality, under-five child mortality, andmaternalmortality. Morbidity and mortality from
communicable diseases such as tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS andnon-communicable diseases
have all increased inthe recent years. Obviously, the HIV/AIDS epidemic inLesotho (29
percent o f the population ages 15-49 are infectedwith HIV)has contributed to these negative
trends but there is an overall sensethat quality o f health services delivery has also declined
compared to the higher quality primarycare systemthat existed inthe 1970s and 1980s.

Health Sector Reform Program

In2000, Government o fLesotho embarked upon a 10-year health sector reformprogram inorder
to strengthen health care delivery services, and achieve a sustainable increase inaccess to quality
preventive, curative and rehabilitative health care services inLesotho. The reform program was
designed in3-phases: Phase Ifocused on building institutional capacity, Phase I1will focus on
testing alternative reform strategies to improve service delivery, and Phase I11will involve
nationwide sector-wide implementation o f the reform strategies. A detailed description o f the
Health Sector Reformprogram i s outlined inthe initialPAD (Report No: 19854-LS).

The health sector reform program encompassed the following:

Sector Financing: Phase Io f the reforms established a FinancialManagement Information
System within the Ministryo f Healthso as to provide a soundbasis for assessingresource
allocation and utilization, andtesting o f alternative financing strategies. The development o f a 3-
year sector expenditure framework will support joint Government and donor financing to the
sector duringthe subsequent phases o f the reform program. A Health Sector Financing Policy
will be developed duringthe second phase which will address the role o fpublic sector financing;
revise resource allocations, and develop mechanisms for determining allocations which respond
to the stated priorities for the sector (e.g., equity, access to the District Package); and strategies
for ensuringsustainable sector financing. The current user fee structures will be revised,
innovative options for risk pooling (insurance) options will be tested duringPhase 11, and
successful activities expanded duringthe final phase o f the program. DuringPhase I1the
MOHSW will be able to demonstrate its capacity to employ the planning, management,
monitoring and evaluation systems developed duringthe Phase I.Ultimately, the criteria for
movingto budgetary support will be developed by each external partner and the government so
that disbursement and implementation procedures are geared towards implementing budget
support duringthe thirdphase.

Human Resources: The health sector throughout Sub-Saharan Africa is facing a human
resource crisis but Lesotho's situation i s unique. Only about 10 percent o f the medical doctors in
the country are nationals, the rest being from other countries inthe Africa region and elsewhere
(e.g. Cuba). These medical professionals are usually hired on two-yearly renewable contracts
and consequently have highturn-over. The diversity o f training backgrounds among these
medical professionals also means that they have differing prescribing andmedical practices.
Extraordinary approaches are required to address the severe constraints inhumanresources.
DyringPhaseI,humanresource needs assessment and strategic planwas developed. The
                 a
Ministryis committedto improvingthe recruitment, retention, performance andaccountability of
MOHSW staffthrough establishing defined qualification andperformance standards for staff at



                                                    22

all levels, procedures for evaluating staff performance and tyingperformance to promotions and
training opportunities. DuringPhase 11, alternative strategies for managing the human resources
inthe sector will bepursued. The MOHSWwill explore scenarios for contractingout
management and staff o f the referralhospital, andlor contracting non-clinical finctions such as
facility maintenance, hospital laundry and catering, procurement, and financial management.
The training o f multi-skilled healthprofessionals, especially nurses, and the innovative use o f e-
classrooms are some o f the humanresource strategies that would be supported inPhase 11.

District Health Services: The delivery o f cost-effective and equitable health services demands
a functioning district health sub-system that is oriented towards deliveringthe essential basic
health care package. The basic health care package has been defined duringPhase Iand it has set
the priorities for service delivery, for health education, and for public health interventions. The
package i s expected to guide decisions on allocations, staffing, training and investment. During
Phase 11, the dissemination o f service standards aims to ensure that standardized essential
services will be available to all (considering financial, geographic and social determinants o f
access), and will guide bothpublic and private sector provision o f care. Legislation (the Public
Health Law) will be revisedto reflect the commitment to the District Package.

Decentralization: The institutional structures for service delivery at the decentralized level
have beenmodified from the Health Service Areas model to one based on the districts, which
will ultimately bethe focal administrativepoint inall the Ministries once the plan for Local
Government decentralizationi s implemented. District Health Management Teams will be
established in all districts duringPhase 11, and a long-term phased development program will be
undertaken to establish the skills and capacities required to coordinate a district-wide health
development program. The cost centers at the district level will be de-linked inorder to
distinguish hospital services from public health services at the health center level.

Pharmaceuticals: The National Medicines Policywas approvedby the Cabinet inSeptember
2004. A draft strategic plan for implementationo fthe policy has beendeveloped. The new
medicines policy aims to ensure regular access to good quality medicines at affordable cost to all
Basotho, and will leadtowards the establishment o f the Medicines Control Authority once the
National DrugPolicy and legislation are approved. The Policy, once approved, will support
efforts to monitor drug quality and ensure that selection i s based on the Essential Drugs List.
The pharmaceutical sector faces an acute shortage o fpharmacists and, thus, Phase I1o f the
reform program will focus on development o fretention strategies for the pharmacists trained. A
pharmaceutical sector review was completed duringPhase I, the recommendation from the
                                                                and
review will be considered and decisions made on implementation during Phase11. Particularly,
the recommendation from the review for creation o f a national DrugFundwill be considered as a
means to improve demand forecasting, procurement and logistics management for
pharmaceuticals through NDSO.

Infrastructure: DuringPhase I, long-term plan for infrastructure development was produced
                                    a
and facility maintenance capacity has been established. The infrastructure plan was built upon
the prior mapping o f facilities and catchment populations inLesotho and considers how better
geographic access can be achieved. Some additional construction o f facilities may be impliedby
the evolving facility plan, as informed by redistribution o f staff, and o f government financing to



                                                  23

increase access. DuringPhase 11, the rehabilitation o fMOHSW infrastructure (specifically,
hospitals), the National Health Training Center and C H A L hospitals will be undertaken. This
work will not commence untilstandards for service delivery from each type o f facility are
defined, and physical planning andmaintenance capacity is established. To improve incentives
for staffpostedto needy areas, rehabilitationo f CHAL nursingschools and construction o f staff
housingwill be supported inthe second phase o f the Program. The construction o f a new
national referral hospital i s anticipatedfor Phase 111, and the Government o f Lesotho i s exploring
private-public partnership as an option for replacing the referral hospital. The second phase will
support preparatorywork for the new referral hospital during Phase 111.

The standards for equipment procurementwill be defined duringthe second phase, and
procurement o f additional medical equipment and vehicles will be undertaken duringPhase 111,
consistent with defined standards and inresponse to updated inventory information.

Partnerships: The Programwas designed inconsultation with a wide range o f stakeholders.
The MOHSW will continue to develop its partnership arrangements, both intemally and
externally, andwill formalize its collaborationwith NGOs that have capacity to deliver health
services. The interimGOL-CHAL agreement, signed duringPhase I,         have set precedent for other
NGO agreements with those entities that have demonstrated capacity to deliver services. During
Phase 11, the MOHSW is expected to move towards a formal contract arrangement with C H A L
for delivery o f services onperformancebasis.




                                                  24

       A n n e x 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies


                           L E S O T H O : Health Sector R e f o r m Phase I1

                                             Project                             Latest
                                                                                 Supervision
                                                                                 PSR ratings
                                                                                 (Bank-
                                                                                 financed
                                                                                 projec only)
Bank-financed: Sector                                                            DO      IP
Health, Nutrition and Population-            Health Sector Reform Program        S        S
strengthenedinstitutional capacity within    Phase I(closed June 30,2005)
MOSHWasfirstphase of the health sector
reform program
Education                                    Second Education Sector             S        S
                                             Development APL Phase I
                                             (effective 9/13/ 2000)
                                             Education Sector Development        S       M S
                                             APL PhaseI1
Social Protection-piloted approaches to      Community Development Support       U       U
community demand-driven development          Project (closed 9/30/2003)
HIV/AIDS-capacity      buildingand           HIV/AIDS Capacity building and      Mu       MU
technical assistance                         technical assistance project
                                             (approved July 6,2004, became
                                             effective on February 1,2005)
Other development agencies
Development Cooperation Ireland              Healthsector program
Global FundAgainst HIV/AIDS, TB and          HIV/AIDS and TB Grant
Malaria
African Development Bank-supports            Health VI
social welfare capacity of the MOHSW,
infrastructure and mental health
EuropeanUnion-finance       TA on M&E        TA project
and decentralization




                                                  25

                               Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                                LESOTHO: HealthSector ReformPhaseI1

                                              ResultsFramework
                 PDO                          OutcomeIndicators                Use of OutcomeInformation
 Increase access to, and quality        'ercent o f children under-5 years     lealth service delivery is one o f the
 delivery of, essential health services idly immunized                         ieterminants o f health outcomes.
 by the Basotho population.             yncreased percent o f deliveries       The first four indicators are
                                        ittendedby trained personnel           ntermediate indicators o f access and
                                                                               pality o f health services, while the
                                        [ncreasedANC attendance                aMR,IMR,USMRandHIV
                                                                               irevalence will only be measurable
                                        Xeduced average waiting period         :very three to four years.
                                        ?om 4.5 hours to 2 hours at health
                                        Facilities.                            ?eriodic assessments o f the
                                                                               ndicated outcome indicators give a
                                                                               -eflectiono n the status o f health
                                                                               services delivery.

                                                                               The initiation o f the DHS will
                                                                               ;upport improved monitoring o f
                                                                               mtcomes.

      IntermediateResults                 ResultsIndicatorsfor Each              Use of ResultsMonitoring
       Oneper Component                             Component
 ComponentOne:                          Component One:                         ComponentOne:
 Essential Health Service Delivery at   % o f the population residing within   Access is a major constraint to
 district level and below.               2 hour walking distance from a        utilizationo f health services
 Enhanced capacity o f DHMTs,           Health facility.                       especially inthe mountainous areas,
 Hospitals and Health Centers to                                               To monitor improvement inaccess
 provide Essential Health Care as                                              to services.
 prescribed.
                                                                               To monitor and ensure children are
                                         % o f infants received DPT3           protected from immunizable
                                                                               diseases. Over 80% o f children need
                                                                               to be immunized to achieve herd

I                                                                              immunity.
                                         % o fNew TB cases detected
                                                                               TB cases have increasedwiththe
                                         TB cure rate                          HIVepidemic. The two indicators
                                                                               monitor the effectiveness o f the TB
                                                                               treatment program.
                                         % o fhealth facilities providing
                                         PMTCT services.                       T o monitor expansion o f the GoL's
                                                                               PMTCT.This indicator is useful for
                                                                               monitoring expansion o f the overall
                                         Increasedhealth center client         HIVprogram.
                                         satisfaction from 82 percent to 90
                                         percent.

                                         Increase the number o f patients that
                                         receive all prescribed medicines to
                                         100%


                                                           26

I     IntermediateResults                ResultsIndicatorsfor Each                 Use of ResultsMonitoring
      Oneper Component                              Component
 Component Two:                         Component Two :                          Component Two:
 Strengthen Human Resourcesfor          % o fDHMTsproperly staffed and           Humanresources are an important
 Health.                                with office accommodation.               resource. These indicators will
 Enhanced capacity for training,                                                 monitor how well the facilities and
 recruitment and management o f         % o fHealthfacilities staffed            districts are staffed; how fast
 humanresources inaccordance with       according to the establishment.          vacancies are filled; and whether
 the HumanResource Development                                                   trainees from GoL's training
 and Strategic Plan(2005 - 2025)        % o f locally trained staff recruited to institutions are able to enter the
                                        the GoL public service                   public sector.
 Component Three:                       Component Three:                         Component Three:
 Improving eficiency of health sector   % of GoLbudget allocatedto health.       To monitor GoL's contribution to health
 financing, planning and                                                         and the level of priority accorded to the
 management.                                                                     health sector.
 To ensure enhanced capacity to
 mobilize funding for health, efficient % of healthbudget expended               Assess absorptive capacity
 and equitable allocation, and
 accountability.                        % o f GoL budget allocatedto             TPdetermine funding at the different
                                        Primary, Secondary andTertiary           levels. Presently, most funding i s
                                        services.                                expended at the secondary and
                                                                                 tertiary levels. GoL plans to
                                                                                 increase primary levelbudgetary
                                                                                 allocation.
 Component four                         Average waiting time at Queen            To monitor quality o f health service
 Improve tertiary services              Elizabeth I1outpatient department        delivery.




                                                          27

D
c
.I
b
c
C
.I
C


c
v
r
I
Bb

i
2
c
v
C
i
:       $0
C     r4F
R
b
b
4




          h h




                 a
                 Y
                 e!
                 ;
                 E
                 V

3  3 3

                                 Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                              LESOTHO: HealthSector ReformPhaseI1

The objective o f the Government o f Lesotho's Health Sector Reform Program, which i s ledby
the Ministryo f Health and Social Welfare, i s to achieve a sustainable increase inaccess to
quality preventive, curative and rehabilitative health care services inLesotho.

IDA contributes to the reform Programthrough a three-phased APL. The Phase IAPL focused
on strengthening institutional capacity inthe Ministry of Health and Social Welfare to enable it
to develop, implementand monitor a comprehensive sector reform program and expand the
capacity o f the public sector to respond to HIV/AIDS. With the achievement o fthe first phase
APLtriggers, the objectives ofthe first phase oftheprogramhavebeenaccomplished(see table
1below). A $5 millionIDA grant, specifically for HIV/AIDS,was prepared and approved
duringPhase I.

The Phase I1APL, which will support the second phase o f the reform program, i s focused on the
policy and institutional reforms requiredto achieve the overall Program objective. The goal o f
the second phase o fthe reform program is to test, critically assess and revise reform strategies
linked to improving service delivery. The Phase I1APL will support development o f health
financing policy and financing reforms to increase efficiency o fpublic expenditures, explore
pro-poor mechanisms to improve the equity and sustainability o f sector financing, andpromote
out-sourcing to achieve efficiency gains; develop performance management system; and devise
mechanisms for more effective deliveryo f essential health services at district level and below.
Theproject will also support preparations for replacing the national referral hospital to improve
efficiency and effectiveness inservice delivery at central level.

                     Table 1. Triggers for movingfromPhaseIto PhaseI1APL HSRP

Trigger                             Status
1. Allocation o fMOHSW budget       The first 3-year comprehensive expenditure programbased upon sectoral
for 3 yr. periodbased on stated     priorities (MTEF for MOHSW) was produced inJanuary 2005.
priorities (sectoral MTEF)
2. Financial Management             A FMIS was produced. Decentralized cost centers were established and
Information System inplace          produce monthly expenditure reports; budgeting procedures have been
                                    standardized; and a user manual has been developed.
3. Timely production o f revised    Monthly Status o f Funds Report (expenditure) produced for both recurrent
interimand final financial          and capital funds.
statement produced monthly for
six month
4. Defined procedureshystems for    Procurement Unit and Project Accounting Unitwere established, and both
disbursement, procurement,          developed and implementedprocedures manuals. Guidelines for accounting
accounting and reporting            and disbursement o f funds are being utilizedby districts.
5. Quarterly M&E Report           IIM&EUnit established and M&Epolicy guidelines and strategic plan
Produced for the past six months    developed; quarterly activity monitoring report and annual program review
                                    conducted regularly; Quarterly and Annual Joint Review meetings have
                                    beeninstitutionalized.




                                                       30

Trigger                                  Status

6, Documentedpartnership                 A Supplementary Emergency Financing Facility (SEFF) that provides
agreement between all CHAL               CHAL with funds equivalent to 20% o f the operating cost for 2 years was
partners and the GOL                     signed inDec 2002. An M O Uhas beendrafted and will be submittedto
                                         Cabinet. A coordinator has beenrecruited inthe MOHSW to oversee the
                                         implementation o fthe GOWCHAL memorandum o f understanding;
7. 80% o fvacancies o f six weeks        The vacancy rate was reduced from 40% in2000/01 to 15% in2001102. A
duration or longer were filled        1IInew structure for the HRdepartment has beenapproved by MPS and the
                                                                                       _ _
within 3 months                          Director for HR is inplace.
8. 70% o f the IDA financing             96% disbursedor committed as o f July 18, 2005.
disbursedor committed
9. A long term plan for health           A long-term infrastructure planhasbeendeveloped and reviewedby
infrastructure development               partners.
produced
10. Estate ManagementUnit                Estate Management Unit was established in2001.
established
11. Documentedguidelines,                Policy and guidelines developed and inuse for I M C I and PMTCT. ARV
policies, protocols and procedures       and HIV post exposure treatment guidelines developed and disseminated.
for TB, I M C Iand HIV/AIDS              Five Year strategic planfor (TB) DOTS expansion developed and TB
                                         treatment policy reviewed andupdated.
12. Completed impact evaluation          Evaluation o f Phase Icompletedand reviewedat Annual Joint Review in
o f Phase I                              October 2003.
13. Evaluation o f AIDS                  The second anonymous, unlinkedsentinel surveillance among ANC women
prevention interventions                 (2003) was conducted. HIV/AIDS impact assessment at householdlevels
                                         was completed (WHO December 2004). Demographic and HealthSurvey
                                         Completed, including population-based HIV prevalence survey (January
                                         2005). NGO Component Evaluation Completed (April 2005).

14. Increasedparticipation o f the       Eight NGOs andpublic sector entities awarded grants for HIViAIDS
private sector andNGOS in                prevention, care and impact mitigation interventions
HIVAIDS prevention and control


The thirdphase o fthe healthreform program is expected to focus on full scale and sector-wide
implementation o fhealth reform strategies for which there is established evidence o f
effectiveness in improving efficiency o f resource allocation, pro-poor focus, sustainability and
access to effective and quality health services. The third phase will include substantial
investment for the construction o f the new national referral hospital through a private finance
initiative or public private partnership arrangement. It i s envisioned that, duringthe third phase,
the sector-wide approach would be fully developed to allow for disbursements against an agreed
sector expenditure program and implementation plan.

&Projectdevelopmentobjectiveandkey indicators

The development objective o fPhaseI1APL is to increase access to, andquality deliveryof,
essential health services. These development objectives are aligned with the overall goal o f the
reform program to achieve a sustainable increase in access to quality preventive, curative and
rehabilitative health services.

The achievement ofthe objectives o fthe reformprogramwill be measured byprogress against
the following keyperformance indicators, which were originally developed duringpreparation o f


                                                            31

Phase Iand will continue to be monitoredthroughout Phase I1and reported annually by the
Health Planning and Statistics Unitto Government andall Partners:

e   Increased percentage o f children fully immunized by 12 months o f age
e   Increased ante-natal clinic attendance
e   Increased percentage o f deliveries assistedby trained provider
e   Increased percentage o f the populationwithin 2 hours walking distance o f a health facility
    meeting national standards for service delivery
e   Increasedpercentage of GOL and C H A L health facilities staffed with standard number and
    type o f qualified staff for the level o f facility
e   Increased proportion o fpatients attending Queen Elizabeth I1(QEII)hospital that have been
    referred by health service providers from other health facilities
e   Increased percentage o fbudget allocation for hospital equipment and maintenance
e   Increased percentage o fbudget allocated to district healthmanagement teams
e   Increased percentage o f health sector budget that i s expended by programs
e   Increased percentage o f districthealth service area HIMS reports received by due date
e   ReducedHIV prevalence among women 15-24 years o f age
a   Reducedpercentage o fhealth facilities reporting "one month stock-out" inany o f the drugs
    inthe essential druglist for the facility inthe last 12months
e   Increased percentage o f facilities with functional incinerators

9. Projectcomponents

Thehealth sector expenditure program (2005-2008) will form the basis for IDA'Sfinancing
along side other partners inthe sector-wide approach (SWAP). The credit will disburse against
the rolling MTEF, which will be agreed upon annually and within the GOL MTEFceiling. This
way o f operating will provide GOLwith greater flexibility, but it increases the importance o f
budgetpreparation anddiscipline. There will be a minimalnegative list ofitems that will not be
financed, such as large civil works and longterm training, which will be updated after everyjoint
review. It is expected that the GOLwill, as muchas possible, avoid financing activities outside
the plan. While IDA will flexibly disburse against the MTEF, priority areas o f focus will be in
these areas ofthe GOL health sector program: health sector financing and financial management,
essential services delivery, and support for human resources.

Essential Health Services Delivery: Improving the effectiveness o f the delivery o f priority health
interventions at district and community levels i s key to reaching the reform objectives. To
improve service delivery at district level, there will be prioritization of support for the
establishment o f functioning district health management teams to deliver the essential health
services package at the health center level. De-linkage o fpublic health service management
from management o f hospitals at the district level will go a long way towards improvingthe
allocation o f resources and better primary care services. This builds on reforms introduced in
Phase I, including the specification o f an essential package o f services. There has to be an
enabling policy environment with clarification of roles and responsibilities, buildingupon the
lessons learned from the pilot districts, institutional restructuring at both central and district
levels, andimplementation support at the district level. Thus, the Phase I1APL will support
establishment o f district health management teams (DHMTs) inall the ten districts and provide


                                                      32

support for office space, Information Technology (IT) equipment, training andtransport so that
the DHMTs function properly. The delivery ofessential drugs andtheir rational usewill be
supported as part of the essential health service package. A rapid assessment o f the scope for
enlarging community and householdinvolvement inthe delivery ofhealth services will be
conducted and the program will provide support to implementthe recommendations from the
assessment. Within the context o fthe HIMS,the MOHSW will support a bottom-up process o f
capacity development to ensure that quality data are reported from the decentralized levels and
that incentives for proper data use are provided at all levels.

Strengthening HumanResources: The human resource crisis facing the health sector will have to
be addressed for quality service to be delivered to patients. Phase I1will build on the analytical
work done on humanresources inthe first phase. The Phase I1APL will support innovative
development and use o f e-classrooms for continuing professional education by health workers,
facilitate the review and development o f curriculum to make trained nurses multi-skilled, and
assist the MOHSW indeveloping a health worker posting policy where staff skills are matched
with service delivery needs. The project will support continuing educationopportunities for
contracted medical officers andnurses and career advancement opportunities. According to the
MOHSW HumanResources Development and Strategic Plan(2005-2025), the Government o f
Lesotho i s prepared to finance incremental recurrent cost o f posts that are technicallyjustified in
the healthsector, ifthe MOHSWcanredress the existingdeficiencies incareer management and
the perceived inefficiencies inallocations o f existing workforce. Reforms are targeted at
institutingbetter career structures for the healthworkforce, especially the nursingcadres. The
MOHSW will assess the training requirements for staffinthe sector--in light o fthe skill
requirements and attrition projections--and support ways to align the training programs with new
career management structures developed.

Improving Efficiency o f Health Sector Financing, Financial Management and Planning: The
program will support the fbrther development and implementation of a national health sector
financing policy. The health financing policy will address the role o f the public sector,
efficiency inmobilization and allocation o f public financing and strategies for ensuring
sustainable financing. DuringPhase I,    a consultancy outlined a road map for development o f a
financing policy. The second phase project will support the further development o f the policy
leading to approval by the government. The work already done indeveloping a Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) will provide a sound basis for joint financial support to the
sector inthe second and subsequent phases. The project will support development o f alternative
health financing instruments and assessment o f the feasibility o f such options inthe Lesotho
context. Risk-pooling arrangements, including social health insurance, and community health
financing will be assessed. Buildingon developments duringthe first phase, the project will
further strengthenthe financial management system andthe medium-term sector expenditure
program process linked to the overall GOL MTEF. Alternative strategies for resource allocation
to improve service delivery will be tested andmonitored. For example, the effects o fproviding
additional resources for basic service provision at the district/health service area levels can be
monitored andrelatedto performance o fthe decentralized entities in service delivery. With new
infrastructure development, more resources will be allocated to equipment and infrastructure
maintenance. Giventhe need to strengthen budget performance, Sectoral Expenditure Reviews
will also be supported.



                                                  33

National Referral Hospital Queen Elizabeth I1(QEII): The government i s committed to
replacingthe present QE I1hospitalwhich should serve as the apex institution for the referral
system. QEIIaccounts for 13/ o f sector expenditures, but its contribution to health outcomes i s
limited. The construction o fthe new referralhospital will be tied to the necessary reforms in
hospital administration andmanagement through the public-private partnership approach. IDA'S
engagement inthe replacement o f the QEI1will help to ensure that the new facility i s designed
to deliver an affordable and cost-effective package o f services, and is built and outfitted to a
financially sustainable level. Thus, there i s scope for increasing efficiency o fpublic
expenditures inhealth ifQE I1hospital is more effectively and efficiently managed. The
construction o f the QEI1hospital inthe absenceo f keyhospital management reforms could
jeopardize the gains made duringPhase Iand may not leadto improved efficiency inresource
utilization inthe new hospital. Fundingfor constructionwithin Phase I11o f the APL, will be
triggered by commitment to reforming hospital management through private-public partnership.

DuringPhase11,the International FinanceCorporation(IFC) will provide advisory services to
the Government, and assist indetermining the feasibility o fthe PPP options. Phase I1will
support preparatoryactivities for the new hospital, includingan environmental assessment and
technical assistance for the Government to manage the PPP process. The second phase o fthe
reform program comprises limitedsupport for infrastructure development. Anticipated inputs
are basedon the longterm infrastructureplan developed under Phase I, focus on medical
                                                                           and
equipment and maintenance systems at the district level. There will be no civil works during
Phase11.

Medical Waste Management: Phase I1will support the implementation o f a medical waste
management planinthe health sector. The MOHSW has prepared a National Medical Waste
Management Plan, March 2005, andwill implement provisions regarding (i)          equipment such as
for waste segregation and incineration, (ii) public awareness campaigns, (iii) o fhealth
                                                                                 training
workers, and (iv) provision o fprotective clothing for medical waste handlers. The
Environmental HealthUnit o fthe Ministry o f Healthwill be responsible for implementing these
provisions.




                                                  34

                            Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                  LESOTHO: HealthSector ReformPhaseI1


                                      Indicative    Bank      Yo of
  ReformProgramComponents             costs(US$   Financing
                                                    (us$      Total
                                                              Bank
                                       million)    million) Financing
  Service Delivery                          47.58       2.54     42%
  Social Welfare                             1.28       0.00      0%
  Pharmaceuticals                            1.07       0.42      7%
  HumanResources                             3.98       0.04      1%
  Monitoring & Evaluation                    3.28       0.18      3%
  Contractual Arrangements                   0.05       0.00      0%
  BuildingHealthSector Partnerships          7.03       0.00      0%
  Sector Financing                            0.4       0.67     11%
  Financial Management                        0.3       0.86     14%
  Strengthening Maintenance Systems         27.95       0.00      0%
  Infrastructure Development                42.17       1.34     22%
  Total ProgramCosts                        135.09      6.50
  Less MOH Hqtrs and Hospital               33.33
  Governmentof Lesotho(Capital
  Budget)                                   27.00
  DCI                                         7.50

  WHO                                         0.50

  UNICEF                                      1.80

  GlobalFund                                 34.00

  NORAD                                       0.70
  Kfw                                         0.25

  ADB                                        10.00

  IDA                                         6.50




~~




  Exchange Rate lUSD = 6 Maloti




                                     35

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                           LESOTHO: HealthSector ReformPhaseI1

InstitutionalArrangements

Earlyinthe design o fthe healthsector reform program, institutional capacity weakness was
recognized as an impediment to fbnctioning o f the Lesotho health system. Weaknesses
identified included (i) quantity, allocation and accountability o f the health sector staff, (ii)
systems and procedures for decision making, planning, budgeting and implementing, and(iii)       the
allocation anduse o f resources. As a result, Phase Ifocused on strengthening institutional
capacity within the MOSHW. Duringthe Phase Iproject, progress was made inbuildingthe
capacity o f MOHSW, especially inthe Directorate o f Planning, to coordinate and monitor the
reform program through quarterly meetingsand annual joint reviews. A financial management
information system has been developed and strengthened with qualified staff. The procurement
unitwithin the MOHSWhas also been strengthened withdefinedoperatingprocedures, manuals
andtrained staff. As a result of these gains, the senior management team o fthe MOHSW is in
good position to continue to be primarily responsible for implementationo f the reform program
and the project. The main focal unit for the project will continue to be the Director o f Health
Planning and Statistics Unit. This arrangement will enable consolidation o f the gains made in
institutional development under Phase I, i s consistent with the harmonization objectives o f
                                           and
the Region.

Financial Management: DuringPhase I, was made with the introduction o freforms in
                                             progress
financial management and the development o f FinancialManagement and Information System
(FMIS).A Project Accounting Unit(PAU)hasbeenestablished at the Ministryandwill continue
to be responsible for financial management andreporting arrangements employing improved
FMISprocedures. The PAUis the single unitresponsible for ensuring that financial
management andreporting arrangements are acceptable to IDA and other cooperating partners.
A separateFinancialManagement Committee (FMC) will notbemaintained duringthis phase,
as its responsibilities will be assumed by the overall Management Committee and financial
performance reviewed on a quarterly basis together with other project activities. This committee
will be responsible for monitoring the work o fthe P A Uandthe technical assistance (TA) it
receives, as well as for providing support and guidance and ensuringthat the recommendations
made are given timely consideration by the relevant authorities. The P A U i s adequately staffed
with a Financial Manager and several accountants and assistant accountants insupport. The
Internal ControlsRinancial Procedures Manual, developed duringPhase I, be updated and
                                                                               will
continue to be used duringPhase 11. Annual Audits are beingregularly conducted. A request
will be made to the Auditor General to give special attentionto reviewing performance against
budget.

Procurement: A Procurement Unit staffedby a Procurement Specialist and support staffwill
continue to handle procurements under the project. The Procurement Specialist, hired by the
ADB project, will work with the HealthPlanning and Statistics Unit(HPSU) to develop Annual
Procurement Plans andwill be responsible for implementation o f all procurements. The P A U and
Procurement Unit work closely together. Procurement procedures and a manual have been


                                                 36

developed and the procurement stafftrained intheir use. A procurement review conducted by
IDA duringPhase Ifound the procurement system satisfactory.

Disbursements will sustain existing disbursement procedures (Le. Direct Payment,
Reimbursement, and Special Commitment).
The PAUwill maintainbank accounts as follows: (i)Current Account inMaloti ina
                                                       a
commercial bank to which draw downs from the Special Account will be credited for project
financing and administrative expenses; and (ii)   a Special Account inUSDheld at the Central
Bank.

Monitoring and evaluation The established processes for monitoring and evaluation o fresults
will continue to be strengthened. The Annual Joint ProgramReview (AJPR) process and
quarterly M&Emeetings will focus on tracking progress on achieving agreed milestones and
refinement o f the milestones as the reform program evolves. The key performance indicators
will be included inthe milestones for reportingbythe MOHSW to all partners on an annual basis
at the AJPR. The M&Eunit inthe Planning Unit is responsible for tracking the performance
indicators andpreparing the M&E reports. The project will support a bottom-up development o f
capacity for data collection, collation, analysis and onward reporting at the district/health service
area level inaddition to maintaining the capacity built at the M&E unit. The first ever Lesotho
Demographic and Health Survey (LDHS), which will be completed in2005, will provide a sound
basis for routine evaluation of health status inthe hture. The project will support the
administration of a health facility survey module of the DHS to assess dimensions o fhealth care
quality that would not be available from the standard DHS.




                                                  37

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                           LESOTHO: HealthSector ReformPhaseI1

1. Financialmanagement
1.1Country FinancialIssues
A Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) for Lesotho is still to bescheduled.
While the area o f Financial Management has seen rapidgrowth and development inthe last few
years, there is still a general lack o f capacity and experience inthe area. There is a growing
number o fqualified nationalaccountants who have developedthrough academic training under
the auspices o f the Lesotho Institute o f Accountants. Inthe large majority o f cases, the practical
development o f these accountants inprojects has been under the direction of outside advisors
(finance, procurement, and technical).

1.2 SummaryRisk Assessment:
 Topic                                       Risk            Commentshecommendations
                                             Assessment1

 Inherent Risk

 Country                                     M               Low financial management
                                                             capacity ingeneral. Mitigated by
                                                             use o f advisors.
 Implementing Entity                         N               Experienced inproject
I                                                            management
 Overall Inherent Risk                       Nto M

 Control Risk

 Implementing Entity                        IN               Internal control framework for
                                            j                the P A Uwell established.
                                                             Adequately supported by up to
                                                             date procedures manuals.
 Funds Flow                                  N               Banking systemthat has worked
                                                             for existingBank supported
                                                             projects inplace.
  Staffing                                   N               Enough qualified staffhandling
                                                             project financial matters at PAU.
                                                             May need additional training on
                                                             Bank procedures.
  Accounting Policies and Procedures         N               Upto date manuals at the PAU,
                                                             already customized for the
                                                             Global Fundactivities




                                                    38

 Topic                                    Risk            Comments/recommendations
                                          Assessment1
 Intemal Audit                            Nto M           Newly established IA department
                                                          intheAcc General's office
                                                          covering all ministries. Have
                                                          started working on donor unit o f
                                                          MHSW. Ministryconsidering
                                                          establishment o f own in-house
                                                          unit.
 Extemal Audit                            N               Current audit outsourced to Emst
                                                          and Young onterms satisfactory
                                                          to the Bank.
 Financial Reporting andMonitoring        N               Adequate quarterly and annual
                                                          financial and other management
                                                          reports produced by the PAU.
                                                          FMRs already designedand will
                                                          be agreed before negotiation.
 Information Systems                      M               Presentsystems earmarked for
                                                          replacement.
 Overall Control Risk                     N
IOverall RiskAssessment: Low                                                                 I
1Key: H=High
        S = Substantial
        M=Moderate
        N=Negligibleor low
        N/A =Not Applicable

1.3 Assessment of the FinancialManagementSystem

Staffingofthe AccountingFunction
This is a follow up project, andit is expected that the existing arrangement inthe Finance/
Accounting department will be retained. The finance function at the Project Accounting Unit
(PAU) inthe MOHSWhas 3 Accountants, under a qualified FinanceManager. All three
accountants have had training on Bank procedures, and an additional accountant was hiredto
handle issues relating to the Global Fund. Continuing training on Bank procedures will obviously
berequiredto enhanceproficiency inaccounting as well as to keep abreast with changes inBank
FMrequirements.
Duringthe new phase, PAUwill berequiredto play a role inthe mentoring anddevelopment o f
accounting staff within the districts and Financial Countroller's office, as well as strengthening
collaborationwith the MOHSW finance department.

InternalControlsincludingpoliciesandprocedures
A manual acceptable to the Bank was inusebythe PAUduringthe endingphase o fthe project.
Itis expected that this same manual, plusenhancements, willbe inuse for the new phase. This


                                                 39

means that the project complies with the relevant Bankpolicies (OPBP 10.02). The
requirements includethe need to establish internal controls andproper accounting procedures,
which are documented inan OperationalManual. The Manual includes general administrative
procedures, financial management procedures, staffing requirements, identification o f accounting
andauditingstandards to be adheredto bythe project, project reporting andmonitoring,
procurementprocedures, procedures for banking, andprocedures for the management o f cash.

The basis o f accounting i s the cash basis, per Government o f Lesotho regulations.

RecordKeeping
The current record keeping/ filing system was found to be satisfactory. Particular attentionwill,
however, need to be taken inthe maintenance and timelyupdating o f the FixedAssets Register

Contracts Management is currently based on a spreadsheet record detailing all contracts
awarded, amounts o f the contracts, and existingunfulfilled commitments. Controls will be
required over the awarding o f contracts, as well as to ensure that payments are made only for
certified work. Some form o f Contract Status Report will be preparedquarterly as part o f the
FMRs.

InternalAudit
There has been recent move to improve the effectiveness o fthe internal audit function. The
Accountant General, not so long ago, established an internal audit team, which has started
working with the PAU. The team i s headed by a retired member o f the Accountant General's
staff andhas some trained auditors, however, its effectiveness will only be measured with time.

The MOHSWis, itself, intending to create an in-house Internal Audit unit.This is, however, still
on the drawing table and may not materialize during the life o f the project.

The internal audit function, ifavailable, would compliment physicalproject monitoring efforts.

FinancialReportingandMonitoring(and FMRs)

ThePAUis responsible for designingthe appropriate Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR s) and
producing them on a quarterlybasis. The FMRs are expected to be comprehensive, and cover
the full spectrum o f activities supported by all the development partners under the program. The
formats to be used duringthe new phase were agreed at negotiations. It is expected that they will
contain a minimumof:

Special Account (SA) Reconciliation Statement
Maloti Bank Account ReconciliationStatement
Project Sources andUses o f Funds
Uses o fFundsbyProject Activity / budget v actual
Contract Status Report
Projectprogress reporting
Procurement reports




                                                   40

Disbursement reports will need to be added should a decision be made later to switch to report
based disbursements. The additional reports will be:

SpecialAccount Activity Statement
Summary Statement o f SA Expenditures for Contracts subject to prior review
Summary Statement o f SA Expenditures not subject to prior review

BudgetingandPlanning
The MOHSW is already on the MTEFdriven budgetingprocess. The new funds will primarily
support the Development portion o fthe budget.

ComputerizedAccountingSystems
The P A Ui s currently employing a credible Microsoft Access driven system. This i s not,
however, an accounting system by definition andhas several inherent weaknesses. The project
has now identified a replacement system and installation has already commenced.
Implementation o f the new system i s expected to be complete about three months after
effectiveness.

ExternalAudit Arrangements
The MOHSW is subject to audit by the Auditor General (AG) o f Lesotho. Lesotho law, however,
allows the AG to subcontract some o f her work where inher opinion it i s prudent to do so. The
current audit has, therefore, been outsourced to Emst andYoung. The existing audit terms o f
reference may need to be revised to incorporate additional requirements of the new project.
Specifically, this will relate to a requirement to comment on the actualperformance against
budget and the quality o fbudgeting, inaddition to the normal requirements. Audited financial
statements for the project will need to be submitted to the Bank within six months o f the end o f
the financial year, accompanied by a detailed audit comments (management) letter.

Conclusion
The proposed financial management arrangements for the project meet the Bank's minimum
requirements for financial management.


1.4 FinancialManagementAction Plan

Negotiation
The format and content o fFMRswere agreedupon at negotiations.

Effectiveness
None.

Other
While not conditions o f effectiveness, the following time bound actions need to be completed in
the timeframes indicated for smoother project implementation:
1. Demonstrate ability to producethe agreedFMRs(at the time o fthe initial advance);
2. Acquirehnstall new accounting software (three months after effectiveness).



                                                  41

1.5 FinancialCovenantsand SupervisionPlan
The following covenants relate to financial matters and form part ofthe DCA:

The Government will cause MOHSW (PAU)to have its records, accounts and financial
statements audited each year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending March 2006;
PAUwill submit separate quarterly FMRs, starting with the first quarter after effectiveness.

Conditions for credit effectiveness: None.

Supervision Plan
The reports o f the progress o fproject implementation will be monitored indetail during
supervision missions. FMRswill be reviewed on a quarterly basis bythe field based FMS and
the results or issues followed up duringthe supervision missions. The project's audit reports will
be reviewed and issues identifiedwill be followed up. The field based FMS will monitor the
agreed actionplanto ensure appropriate actions have been implementedby the project.

2. Disbursementand Flow of Funds

                                Table C: Allocation o f Credit Proceeds
                               Amount of the
                               Credit Allocated                  % of
      Caterrow                 (Expressed in                     Expenditures
                               USDEquivalent)                    to be Financed4

(1)    Goods, works,           (a) 3,500,000 inthe aggregate     100%foreign
       consultants'            for FY05/06 and FY 06/07.         expenditures and 90% of
       services, operating                                       local expenditures for
       costs and training.                                       goods and works; 90% of
                               (b) 2,400,000 inthe aggregate local expenditures for
                               for FY07JFY08 and                 operating costs; and
                               subsequentFYsuntilproject         100% for
                               completion.                       consultants'services and
                                                                 training.
(2)   Refinancing o f PPF      600,000




      Total




2.1 Flow of Funds
The project i s expected to operate one U S Dollar Special Account for all project components.

____~

 The financing percentagesapplicable will change when the Country Financing Parametersfor Lesotho are
approved, as agreedduring negotiations.


                                                    42

The Special Account will be held at the Central Bank o f Lesotho, which i s acceptable to the
Bank, and managed, bythe PAU. The PAUwill have a local currency (maloti) project account
for processing payments inlocal currency. Draw-downs into this account from the Special
Account should be as andwhen needed to avoid incurrence o f foreign exchange losses.

2.2 Disbursement
Disbursements from the loan will be madebased on transaction-based disbursement methods
(i.e., from the Special Account, with replenishments made based on Statements o f Expenditures
(SOEs), with documentationretainedat the PAU, as well as direct payments from the Loan
Account where appropriate). FMRs produced will, essentially, be a reporting tool. An option to
move to FMRs will, however, be allowed inthe DCA, incase o f future need.

Disbursement schedules - The disbursement schedule will be structured to fit with the sector
wide approach and, as such, there will be only two categories inSchedule 1: Category I:     Health
Sector Reform Program Expenditures financed under the Reform Program MTEF including civil
works, drugs, equipment, vehicles, training and associated, materials, consultant services and
Operating Costs; and Category 11:Refinancing o f the PPF.

2.3 DirectPayments
This methodwill be usedwhen there is need to pay a thirdparty for goods and services supplied,
but the amount to be paidis higherthan 20% o fthe amount deposited inthe Special Account.
There should generally not be too manyo fthese `direct' payments but, when they do occur, the
following details need to be suppliedto the Disbursement Office inWithdrawal Application
Form 1903:

Name and address ofthe thirdparty to whom payment will be made
Briefdescription o f the gooddservices supplied
Category of expenditure
EligibilityPercentage
Supplier's banking details

Details o f the supporting documents required for Direct payment were discussed at negotiation.

2.4 Statementof Expenditures(SOE)/ReplenishmentMethod
This methodwill be usedwhere paymentsto thirdparties have beenmade out o fthe Special
Account, and the replenishments are usedto restore the Special Account advance to its original
level.

2.5 SOE Limits
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis o f
statements o f expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing less than
$200,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract;
(c) for services o f individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (d)
for services o f consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract; and (e) operating costs and training, all under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify bynotice to the Borrower.



                                                  43

                                  Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                              LESOTHO: HealthSector ReformPhase I1

Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: ProcurementUnder IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004; and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, and the
provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. The general description o f various items under different
expenditure category i s below. For each contract to be financed by the project, the different procurement
methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank project team inthe
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Planwill be updated at least annually, or as required, to reflect the
actual project implementation needs and to reflect improvementsininstitutional capacity.

Procurement of Works:N o major procurement o fcivil works will be financedunderthe IDA Credit. All
major civil works are financed by ADB, while IDA will finance contracts of small value for the (i)
construction o f new incinerators, refurbishment o f existing ones; and (ii) construction o f additional drug
stores inthe districts. These small works will be procuredthrough price quotations received from at least
three qualified contractors. The request for quotations should clearly indicate the descriptiono fthe
works, the completion period and the modalities o fpayment. The bidder with the lowest evaluated
quotation will be awarded the contract.

Procurement of Goods:Goods procuredunder this project would include: informationequipment; office
furniture and equipment; vehicles; pharmaceutical including medical waste management. The
procurement will be done through ICB, and N C B procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Shopping
procedures may also be applied

Procurement of non-consulting services: Non-consulting services will be procuredinaccordance with
the relevant sections o f the Bank Guidelines to ensure transparency, fairness and value for money.

Selection of Consultants: Consultants will be required for different assignments under the components
of the project as firms and individuals depending on the nature and magnitude.

Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than $ 100,000 equivalent per contract may be
composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the
Consultant Guidelines. Consulting services may be providedby Universities, Government Research
institutions, Training Institutions, NGOsand any special organizations provided they meet the
requirements o f Clause 1.11(b) o f the Guideline

OperationalCosts: Operational costs which would be financedbythe project will be procuredusingthe
implementing agency's administrative procedures as determined inthe Project Implementation Manual
which will be reviewed for compliance with the Bank's requirements.

Others:There are no special arrangements such as scholarships, Grants etc.




                                                       44

B.      Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Staffingof the Procurement

The ProcurementUnitestablished under Phase 1ofthe Lesotho Health Sector ReformProgram
(HSRP) was staffed with 3 staff members (2 Procurement officers and the Procurement
Manager). One Procurement Officer departed to hrther her studies, but recently a Senior
Procurement Officer was employed under the HIV/AIDS Capacity and Technical Assistance
Project (Grant No.: H113-LSO). Currently, the unit is staffed with (i)  one highlyqualified
Procurement Manager (financed by ADB) who i s supported by (ii)       one Senior Procurement
Officer and (iii) one Procurement Officer. Basedon (i) participatoryprocurement assessment
                                                         the
o f procurement capacity under Phase2 o f the program, (ii)  the increase inthe volume o f
activities o fPhase 11, and (iii)
                                to ensure adequate work distribution, it is recommendedto recruit
an additional Procurement Officer to strengthenthe Procurement Unit. The last Post
Procurement Review (PPR) executed in2004 had identified the filing system o f the Program as
being weak. Action i s being taken to rectify this weakness. To allow the procurement technical
staff to concentrate on substantive issues and to ensure adequate filing, it is also recommendedto
recruit an administrative secretary who will be responsible for office management logistics, and
filing matters. The selection process ofthese 2 additional staff should start as soon as possible
for the new staff to be on board by the time o fproject effectiveness. The proposed TORSfor the
additional staff to be recruited are annexed to this document.

Results o f 2004 Post Procurement Review (PPR)

The 2004 PPRrecommended to increase the Overall Risk rating from "Insufficient" or High
Riskto "Average" consideringthat appropriate procurement functions hadbeenestablished; and
qualified staff are available to carry out procurement duties.

Nevertheless, the review showed that there were weaknesses to be addressed by the Project prior
to Phase I1o f APL, including:

     a   Absence o f information on contracts processing after the award stage. No information on
         the signing, the contract execution management, certifications, payments effected,
         completion, securities;
     a   The P M Uwas kept out o f contract management, meaning that Accounts were carrying
         out their work without separation o f duties without the Internal control that Procurement
         should provide with regard to contract execution
     a   PMRtables didnot allow for linkingo fProcurement Process MonitoringandContract
         Expenditure Reporting.

 The following actions were taken to redress the above discrepancies. It i s understoodthat all
 these actions will have to be reviewed duringthe launchworkshop to ensure full readiness for
 implementationo fPhaseI1ofthe Health Sector Program.




                                                 45

        0    Filingsystem is beingupdated according to the actionplan. Update should be completed
             before project effectiveness;
        0    Project PIM i s being updated to reflect Phase I1o f the Program;
        0    Procurement i s now part o f the payment decision, acting as a control, with regardto the
             applicationo f the general and special conditions o f contract;
        0    PMR table "Report 3-B" was modified to add, after the contract #, the currency and the
             contract amount. This will enable the linking and cross checking o fthis table with the
             "Contract Expenditure Report".

   The overall project risk for procurement is AVERAGE

   C.       ProcurementPlan

   The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation which provides the
  basis for the procurement methods. This plan was reviewedby the Project Appraisal MissionTeam and
   will be finalized by the project negotiation. Itwill also be available inthe Project's database and inthe
   Bank's external website once approved by the Bank. Inagreement with the Project Team, the
   Procurement Plan will be updated annually, or as required, to reflect the actual project implementation
  needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

  D. FrequencyofProcurementSupervision

   Inadditionto the priorreview supervision to be carried out, one procurement supervision missionshould
  be executed every 6 months, and one post procurement review (PPR) should also be executed every year.

   Attachment 1

  Detailsofthe ProcurementArrangement involvinginternationalcompetition.




1            2              3              4            5          6             7              8           9

Ref.     Contract       Estimated Procurement         P-Q      Domestic       Review         Expected    Comments
No.    (Description)      Cost          Method                Preference      byBank           Bid-
                                                                (yedno)     (Prior / Post)   Opening
                                                                                               Date
     Information       205.000       I C B           NO       NO           Yes             January 06
    Iequipment
      14 double        658.000       ICB             NO       NO           Yes             April 06
      Cab
      vehicles
      Office           305.000       ICB             NO       NO           YES             June 06
      Equipment
      Pharmaceuti      150.000       I C B           NO       NO           YES             April 06
      cal
      equipment




                                                         46

(b) ICB Contracts for procurement o fgoods andworks estimatedto cost above US$200,000 per contract
will be subject to priorreview by the World Bank. NoDirect Contract for goods i s expected under Phase
11.

Consulting Services.

(a)     Listof ConsultingAssignmentswith short-list of internationalfirms:No consulting
assignments with short-lists of international firms are expected under Phase 11. Most consulting
assignments will be delivered by individual consultants.

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above $100,000 per contract, Single Source selection of
consultants (firms), and individuals for assignments estimated to cost above $50,000 will be subject to
prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short listscomposedentirely of nationalconsultants: Short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent, or less, per contract may be composed entirely o f national
consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.




                                                     47

                             Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                            LESOTHO: HealthSector ReformPhaseI1

1.       This Annex providesthe economic and financial analysis o f Phase I1o f the Lesotho
Health Sector Reform(HSR) Project. Phase I1o f the Adaptable Program Lending (APL)focuses
on strengthening policy andinstitutional reform, including possible reallocation o fpublic
expenditures; wider replication o f efficiency improvements, including out-sourcing, performance
management enhancements, implementationo frevised service delivery protocols, and adopting
new approaches for drugpurchasinganddistribution; and exploration ofpro-poor mechanisms to
improve equity. Also under Phase 11, the Government o f Lesotho (GOL), the World Bank, and
the IntemationalFinance Corporation (IFC) will work together to plan for the construction and
operation o f the new national referral hospital to replace the existingone (Queen Elizabeth I1or
QEII)whichhas beendeemedbeyondrepair.

                                           A. Project Context

2.       Economictrends andissues-Unlikemany sub-Saharan countries, Lesotho has a
reasonably sound macroeconomic environment, historically low net extemal debt (three-fourths
o f it concessional), strong external liquidity, and highfiscal revenues. Annual GDP grew by 3.2
percent and 4.0 percent in2001 and 2002, respectively. Much o f the growth has been spurred by
the construction o f the World Bank-supportedLesotho Highlands Water project (with Phase I
completed inMarch 2004); the royalties that Lesotho receives from supplying water to South
Africa will also provide significant revenues to the country over the coming years. The
manufacturing sector i s also contributing to growth, especially textile and clothing exports, and
Lesotho has become the largest such exporter under the African Growthand Opportunity Act
(AGOA) o fthe U.S. Government. GDP is expected to grow by4.3 percent per year between
2002 and 2006 (World Bank, 2004), andwith population growing at a slower pace (1.5 percent
per year), per capita GDP is expected to increase by 2.9 percent annually over the medium-term.
Debt service has beenreduced to 11.8 percent o f exports o f goods and services in2002, and
short-term outstanding debt i sjust US$4.0 million duringthat year. The implementation o f fiscal
reforms such as the establishment o f the Lesotho RevenueAuthority (LRA) and the introduction
o f value added tax in2003 has increased revenues and improved the country's fiscal balance.
The fair and peaceful general elections o fM a y 2002 have contributedto socioeconomic stability,
strengthened democracy, andbolstered investment confidence.

3.       Despite these economic gains, Lesotho remains a poor country, rankingamong the lowest
interms ofhumandevelopment index (145`h out o f 175 countries rankedin2002). About 80
percent o fthe population lives inrural areas, many inmountainous settings, relying largely on
subsistence farming and livestock. About half(48.3 percent) o f its 2 millionpeople live below
the poverty line5.Income inequality i s among the highest inthe world: the Gini coefficient is
0.632. Per capita income was just US$530 in2001. The country i s land-locked and completely
surrounded by, and highly dependent economically on, South Africa. Unemployment i s

 GOL does not have an official measureo fpoverty, though it is conjectured that one-half to three-fourths o fthe
population may be considered "poor" andthat one-half may be considered "ultra-poor".


                                                     48

increasing, inpart due to the retrenchments inSouth African mines; consequently, remittances
from Lesotho miners are declining. More recently, garment firms have begun to migrate to
lower-labor-cost countries, following the implementationo fWorld Trade Organization (WTO)
trade agreements. On top of these, the agricultural and livestock sectors have beenravaged by
natural disasters (drought, heavy rains, andhail andfrost insome areas, occurring three years in
a row) andthe ever-worsening HIV/AIDSepidemic that i s causing labor shortages in farms, and
possibly migrant labor that Lesotho heavily depends on. This has worsened food security, with
as many as 900,000 people affected by famine in2002. The food problem has been eased
somewhat by an appeal for humanitarian assistance, but the drought has made economic
recovery difficult. Most importantly, human and institutional capacity has historically been
weak and continues to be a major constraint to development, especially inthe social sectors.

                     B. Project Relationship to IDA and Government Strategy

4.      Lesotho's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was discussed by the Boardin 1998, a new
CAS is currently beingdeveloped. The World Bank has continued to support the Government's
strategy to reduce poverty andto improve the country's competitiveness through greater
integrationinto the sub-regional economy o f Southern Africa. A Joint African Development
Bank-World Bank Country Assistance Evaluation (2001) also recommended that the World
Bank should aim for the following over the medium-term: (a) to reduce poverty and inequality
by focusing on the quality o f education andhuman capital development at all levels, and (b) to
place HIV/AIDS programs prominently on the agenda with the government. Finally, the Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (MDP, 2000) committed to improve the accessibility and
efficiency o f quality social services by giving more priority to resource allocation to education
andhealth. PhaseI1o fthe APL strongly supports these goals.

5.      Reducing poverty through investments inhealth continues to be a valid rationale for
World Bank involvement inLesotho. In 1999, the country's headcount poverty ratio was 48.3
percent, i.e., almost half o f the population was below the (unofficial) poverty line o f US$32 per
month (Omole, 2003); this is far worse than the average poverty ratio inAfrica o f 43.5 percent
for the same period (UNECA, 1999). The poverty gap ratio (which measures the extent to which
consumptionby the poor falls below the poverty line) was 23.5 percent, also worse than the
African average o f 18.3 percent for the same period.

6.      Poverty inthe country i s not only deemed chronic, but also self-perpetuating, mainly
because the poor have very low utilization of social services such as health care which, inturn,
causes further impoverishment. Sickness anddeath are cited as major causes o f impoverishment
inthe country. According to a surveyof410households in2002 carriedout bythe University of
Lesotho, 30 percent o f respondents cited protracted sickness o f a household member as a major
cause o fhousehold poverty. An additional 16.2 percent o f survey respondents cited the death o f
a householdhead or breadwinner as a major cause o f their poverty (Omole, 2003). Surprisingly,
96.0 percent o fthe respondents said they had "physical access" to a hospital or clinic, but for one
reason or another (lack o f skilled staff or drugs), were not able to utilize good quality services.

7.      Economic integration, the second major flank o fthe Bank's strategy for Lesotho, requires
a healthy population. Labor migration i s the hallmark o f the economic relation betweenLesotho
and SouthAfrica, its immediate neighbor. Although the flow o fmigrant labor has dramatically


                                                  49

fallen from 112,722 in 1994 to 61,415 in2003 (Central Bank, 2004), it is still considerable:
about 35 percent o fmale wage earners are estimated to be employed inSouth Africa. Migrant
labor generates significant income flow for the Basotho (around 2.6 billionMaloti annually), and
this can only be maintained ifworkers remain healthy through prevention o f infection,
maintenance o f health, and caring for the sick. This requires a network o f domestic health
services (inaddition to work-based health programs) that canprovide care effectively, efficiently
and sustainably to people who need them most. Thus, improvement o f health services o fthe
kindsupported under the LesothoHSRProject is akey element o fGOL's andthe Bank's goal o f
strengthening Lesotho's economic integrationwith its neighbors.

                                       C. Project Rationale

8.       The Lesotho HSR Project's economic rationale revolves around four themes: improving
allocative efficiency, upgrading technical efficiency, enhancing sustainability, and alleviating
poverty and improving equity. The continuing validity o f these rationales, the project
achievements under Phase I,   and continuing issues are discussed inthe following sections.

9.       Improving allocative efficiency - Phase Io f the project worked towards the formulation
o f the sectoral medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) for the Ministryo f Health and
Social Welfare (MOHSW), and required that 70 percent o f the MOHSW budgetbe committed.
This goal has beendifficult to achieve since under Phase Io fthe HSR Project, there was no
macro-level MTEF for the country that specified a hard budget constraint for the different
sectors, andthe defined outputs that each sector was supposed to deliver. More importantly,
there has beena notable absence inrecent years o fpublic expenditure reviews (PER) inthe
Bank's analytic program for Lesotho (OED, 2001), due inpart to the absence o f a World Bank
macroeconomic lending program inthe country. Inhindsight, the health sector MTEF, would be
more effective with the spending parameters established under a government-wide MTEF as
informed by the findings o f the PER. (The last health sector PERwas done in 1996; the last
multisectoral PERwas done in 1999). Nevertheless, estimates of the parameters can reasonably
be made based upon historical trends andthe sectoral MTEFboth makes medium term costs
explicit and defined priorities. There were related important systems improvements that the
project achieved inPhase I.Cost centers were established, budgeting procedures were
standardized, the planning andbudgeting cycles were harmonized, expenditure and control
procedures were strengthened, procurement guidelines are being developed, and audited
financial reports are beingproduced on a regular basis.

10.     Improving allocative efficiency inthe government budget remains an important and
critical objective. Towards this end, the MOFDP is developing an indicative fiscal strategy up to
2007, based on economic forecasts up to that year. Inhis Budget Speech, the Minister o f
Finance noted that taking a medium-term look at development and budgetary matters marks a
new beginning for the Government (Thahane, 2004). The MOFDP intends to implementa
MTEFstarting inFY05/06 to solidify public expendituremanagement byproviding more
budgetary predictability, transparency, and accountability. The MOFDP's MTEF initiative
augurs well for the HSR Project's PhaseI1objective o f working towards the actual reallocation
o fpublic expenditures. The Lesotho I-PRSP itselfspecifically mentions the need to restructure
overall government expenditures to put more emphasis on the social sectors (MDP, 2000).



                                                 50

Towards this end, the MOHSW is preparing its medium-term (2005/06-2007/08) spending
priorities along five major MDGinterventions (MOHSW, March 2005).

11.      Inadditionto strengthening the MTEFprocess, the Project is also working towards a
more coordinated approach to external donors' investments inthe health sector to improve sector
efficiency. External cooperating partners currently include ADB, DffD, EU, the Global Fund,
DCI, KfW, UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, USAID, the World Bank, the World Food Programme,
and WHO. Recently, the Millennium Challenge Corporation, a new global initiative o f the US.
Government, also announced that Lesotho i s an eligible country for development assistance in
poverty reduction. Inaddition, major international NGOs including CARE, the Red Cross, and
World Vision International are active. Although the number o fpartners inLesotho is not as
many as those inneighboringcountries and, thus, transaction costs not as great, scarcity in
institutional capacity ingovernment still requires more simplified and harmonizedprocedures to
reduce management burden. The original project intention is to support the longer-term
objective o f disbursing donors' support through time-slice financing against a single budget.
Although this continues to be a project goal, it i s being deferredto Phase I11when disbursements
against a medium-term expenditure program will be fully implemented. Towards this end, the
MTEFprocess will be strengthened duringPhase 11. Itmust further benoted, that the "capital
account" inthe Government budget has already achieved a remarkable level o fup-to-dateness
andcomprehensiveness, althoughit still lumps together all foreign fundinginto so-called capital
expenditures.

12.      Improving technical efficiency - InPhase I, project worked at various levels to
                                                        the
improve technical efficiency. At the clinical level, the project pushedfor the formulation o f
disease control protocols and guidelines, andthe expeditious filling of staff vacancies. At the
organization level, the project encouraged the formalization o fpartnership agreements between
GOL and the ChristianHealth Association o f Lesotho (CHAL), the contractingloutsourcing o f
non-clinical services, health service decentralization, and initiation o f new approaches for drug
purchasing and distribution. The project also supported systems strengthening inthe areas o f
budgeting, accounting and finance, and procurement. All o f these were deemed to generate cost-
savings and improve service delivery.

13,      Bythe endo fPhaseI, achievements inthis areahavebeencheckered. Although
                               project
clinical guidelines and protocols were produced, their implementation remains slow and uneven.
Staff vacancies have beenreduced to only 15 percent in2001/02, partly due to unanticipated
GOL-wide enforcement o fmandatoryretirement at 55. The GOL has since changed the
retirement age to 60. Pilot decentralizationinthree learning districts has not been sufficiently
effected, although there were important lessons that were learned (e.g., delinkingpublic health
financing and responsibility from the district hospital) which will be applied inPhase 11.

14.      Overall, however, health system development has not ledto immediate positive
improvement inservice delivery. A major reason for this i s the persistent problem inhuman
resources and capacity, not helpedby the ease with which those who have gained skills can
move to SouthAfrica, which offers far better salaries and benefits. A recent assessment o f the
HR situation (MOHSW, 2004) indicates the followingmajor problems:




                                                  51

               Inadequacy - In2003, Lesotho only had 51.4 nurses per 100,000 population,
               compared to the calculated requirement o f 88.5 per 100,000. The actual
               nurse/population ratio is, infact, much lower than that obtaining insub-Saharan
               Africa as a whole (61.0 per 100,000). Similarly for doctors, Lesotho only had 3.8
               per 100,000 population, compared to the calculated requirement o f 12.5 per
               100,000. The actual 2003 doctor/population ratio is, infact, much lower thanthat
               obtaining insub-Saharan Africa as a whole (12.0 per 100,000).

               Maldistribution -The Central region (with 2.04 staff per 1,000 population) i s
               muchbetter covered with health personnel than the Northemregion (1.33) and the
               Southern region (1.13).

               Problems inHRproduction and deployment - Lack o f autonomy, strategic
               direction and oversight o f the National Health Training College (NHTC) has
               resulted indecline inits operational efficiency. As a result, while some
               occupations experience excess training production, others experience high
               dropout rates. These problems are compoundedby low hiringrates among
               graduates inrecent years.

               Weak HR systems and management -Problems persist inposting policy, equity
               inremuneration, loosepromotion criteria, limited career advancement especially
               for nurses, and ad hoc in-service training. The historic wage differentials between
               government and C H A L facilities persist. As a consequence o f all o f these issues,
               staff tumover i s high, and attritionhas been increasing.

15.     Under Phase 11, the project will implement the key recommendations o f the HR
Development and Strategic Plan. The MOFDP has committed to finance the costs o f any
necessary posts, contingent uponMOHSW's action to redress current geographic imbalances
(withpossible staffredeployment) and staff disincentives owing to poor career structures and
opportunities. The Government is also considering introducing performance-based pay for civil
servants, which would greatly assist inretaining healthworkers.

16.     Enhancing sustainability-PhaseIo fthe project dealt with this objective on two fronts:
better estateplanning and introduction o f altemative financing mechanisms, The Project
supported the formulation o f a long-term plan for health infrastructure based on an assessment o f
equipment and facility needs. It also worked for the establishment of an Estates Management
Unit,which is increasingly attracting support from other healthprojects. MOHSW's intentionto
achieve more sustainable capital investments throughthe application o f planning standards and
bettermanagement o f assets remains strong, but this would require further strengthening of the
EMU.

17.    Interms offinancial sustainability, the Programhasnotbegunto introducealtemative
financing mechanisms. The Program intends to pilot-test insurance schemes and expand drug
revolving funds. The user fee system, especially ingovernment facilities, also continues to face
serious policy constraints and institutional challenges, as will be discussed below.




                                                  52

18.     Improvingequity andreducingpoverty-The over-arching goals o fthe project are to
alleviate poverty and improve equity. According to the 2004 UNDP National Human
Development Report, 48.3 percent o f national income flows to the richest 10percent while only
0.5 percent o f such income goes to the poorest 10percent (UNDP, 2004). Given this severe
income inequity, the Lesotho I-PRSP recognizes that economic growth alone cannot dramatically
improve the distribution o f income. Indeed, given the very highrate o f inequality, economic
growth inthe 1990shad little impact on the poorest (Wason andHall, 2003). Financing and
provision o f social services, especially health, i s critically needed to tilt the balance infavor o f
the poor.

19.     However, given the long-term nature of these poverty reduction and equity improvement
goals, Phase Io f the project had no specific measurable targets inthese areas. The project, and
Lesotho's health sector as a whole, also suffers from the lack o f up-to-date population-based
indicators that can provide baseline information on, and monitoring of, the poverty and equity
impact o fhealth investments. Being a small country, Lesotho is often bypassed ininternational
support for these analytic exercises. Moreover, domestic capacity to speedily process and
analyze data i s very limited. The end-decade 2000 UNICEFMultiple Indicator Cluster Survey i s
already dated. The very first DHS i s currently beingundertaken, with the results expected
shortly. Perhaps most seriously, the government continues to have neither any official definition
o fpoverty, nor any analysis on the correlates o fpoverty, which makes it difficult to define
exactly who are poor.

20.     Despite these data shortcomings, findings from several studies can be used to sharpen the
poverty-alleviation and equity focus of health interventions under Phase 11:

    0   Urbadrural disparities - The divide betweenpoorer rural areas and richer urbanareas has
        heightened as a result o f declining agricultural productivity and output due to
        environmental degradation inmountain areas (Wason and Hall, 2003), and the thriving
        industrial and service sector inMaseru and the lowlands. Reflecting this widening
        ruralhrban gap, over 30 percent o fhouseholds inthe mountains fall into the poorest
        income quintile, while only 5 percent o f urban households do. This gap i s also reflected
        inknowledge about health, andthe utilization o fhealth services (Table 1).




                                                    53

      Table 1. Urban/Rural Differences inKnowledge o f and Access to Health and Sanitation
                                            Services, 2000

                  Indicators                         All               Urban              Rural

 % o fpop. w/ safe drinkingwater                    76.8                88.3               73.6
 % o fpop. w/ sanitary waste disposal               53.6                87.8              44.2

 % o fU5 children underweight                        17.8                13.5              18.8
 % o fU5 children stunted                           45.4                39.0               46.9
 % o fU5 childrenwasted                              5.4                 5.6               5.4
 % o f children 6-59 mos. Who received               17.0                13.4              17.8
 vit. A w/in last 6 mos.
 % o fmothers who receivedvit. A                     13.2                16.4              12.4
 before infant was 8 weeks
 % o fhouseholds consuming adequately               68.7                90.7               61.2
 iodized salt (15+ PPM)
I                                             Vaccination                                             I
 % o f children 12-23 mos. vaccinated                77.2                81.6              76.1
 against measles
 % o f children 12-23 mos. vaccinated                71.7                76.3              69.8
 against childhood diseases (all antigens)

 % ofwomen 15-49who have heardo f                    85.6                91.6              83.5
 H N / A I D S
 % o fwomen 15-49 who have sufficient                18.8                26.7              16.2
 knowledge o f HIV/AIDS transmission

 % of motherswl skilleddelivery assistance           59.8                75.7              55.7
1% o fwomen usingmodern                              29.5                37.6              27.1
 contraceptives
 Source: Bureau o f Statistics (2002), EndDecade Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey.

      0   Regional and district disparities - Large regional disparities inpoverty exist. Poverty i s
          highlyconcentrated inthe predominantly rural andremote Mountain and Senqu River
          Valley areas where more than 80 percent o f the population are considered poor or
          destitute, comparedto 70 percent inthe Lowland andFoothill areas, and 54 percent in
          urban zones (MDP, 2000). These geographic poverty disparities are also reflectedin
          household access to key health services, as shown inTable 2. Geographic disparities
          may also have beenheightenedas a result o fthe famine, which hashada differential
          geographic impact, with the hardest hit districts being Mohale Hoek, Mafeteng, Qacha's
          Nek, Mokhotlong, Quthing, and Thaba-Tseka.




                                                  54

   Table 2. Regional and District Differences inChildren's Vaccination and Skilled Delivery
                                          Attendance, 2000

   RegionsandDistricts            YOof ChildrenVaccinated           YOof Deliverieswith
                                     Against Childhood               SkilledAttendance
                                   Diseases(AllAntigens)

Lowland                                       73.8                          64.5
Foothill                                      65.9                          57.4




Thaba-Tseka                                   73.2                           50.0
                            All               71.1                           59.8



    0   Socioeconomic groups - The 2002 Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ)
        Survey revealed significant differences, by socioeconomic group, inthe percentage o f
        Basotho households reporting access, need, use, and satisfaction o f health services (Table
        3). For instance, while 25.7 percent o f civil servants' and28.0 percent o f self-employed
        households had access to health facilities (defined interms o f specified distance to the
        closest facility), only 8.4 percent o f subsistence farmers and only 13.4 o fthe unemployed
        households did. This, despite the fact that the unemployed households registered the
        greatest percentage o fneed. Rates o fhealth service use and satisfaction are also lowest
        among subsistence farminghouseholds.

    Table 3. Percent o fHouseholds Reporting Access, Need, Use, and Satisfaction o fHealth
                              Services, by Socioeconomic Group, 2002

 Socioeconomic Group                Access              Need             Use           Satisfaction
Public service                       25.7               18.7             16.6              13.6
Private. formal sector               17.5               21.2             17.6              14.3
Private, informal sector             16.6               23.3             15.9              13.3
Subsistence agriculture              8.4                20.1             12.9              10.4
Self employed or other               28.0               19.6             15.4              12.1
Unemployed                           13.4               24.6             16.3              13.3




                                                   55

        Poor vs. nonpoor households -The 2002 CWIQ also reveals large differences inthe rates
        o f access, use, and satisfaction o fpoor and nonpoor households (Table 4). Not
        surprisingly, poor rural households show the lowest rate o f access, use, and satisfaction o f
        health services, however, satisfaction i s generally low across the board.


     Table 4. Percent o fHouseholds ReportingAccess, Need, Use, and Satisfaction o fHealth
                   Services, by UrbadRuraland Poor/Nonpoor Households, 2002

Type of Household                   Access              Need              Use            Satisfaction
Rural nonpoor                        11.0               22.0              15.1               12.7
Rural poor                           6.0                21.8              12.9               11.2
Urban nomoor                         35.0               22.7              19.6               14.7




        Age and gender -The most vulnerable groups are the elderly, the disabled, female- and
        child-headed households, and orphans (Sechaba Consultants, 2002). Gender i s also an
        important dimension inhealth: women carry the greatest HIV/AIDS burden. Estimates
        for 15 to 24-year-olds show that 38.1 percent o f young women have HIV infection,
        compared to only 17.4 percent amongmeninthe same age group. Because o f migrant
        labor, almost 54 percent o fhouseholds are female-headed.

21.     To ease these socioeconomic and geographic differences inhealth access and status,
PhaseI1o f the project will focus more strongly on: the continuing provision o f essential public
health interventions which address the most prevalent ailments o f the poor; providing much
needed skilled healthworkers incurrently underserved areas, as noted inthe analysis above;
testing alternative strategies for resource allocation that factor inpoverty incidence and the
health needs o fpriority population groups (women, children, the elderly); establishment o frisk-
pooling arrangements, such as social health insurance and community financing schemes; and
more intensive monitoring o fproject benefits.

            D. Project Alternatives Consideredand Justification for IDA Involvement

22.     "No project" alternative- This alternative is hard to justify inview o f the depth of
poverty inthe country, the continuing large disease burden, and the large deficiencies inhealth
services, Life expectancy at birth(LEB) inLesotho has declined to 35.7 years, mainlybecause
o f HIV/AIDS and other assaults on health. Out o fthis LEB, the healthy life expectancy (HALE)
at birth is only 31.4 years, according to the latest World Health Report (WHO, 2003). Over an
already-abbreviated lifetime, a Lesotho male and female can expect to lose 3.3 and 5.0 years,
respectively, to illness, impairment, and disability. Reducing this human suffering requires
increasing the level o f resources that Lesotho currently has inthe health sector. The "no project"
alternative i s indefensible because o f the lack o f external cooperating partners that can replace
either DA's technical recommendations, the cross-sector and macroeconomic linkages, nor the
IDAresource flows to the sector o f around US$ 8.3 milliona year, or US$24.9 millionover the
period 2000/01 to 2002/03 (see Table 5) Lesotho has fewer cooperating partners than other sub-


                                                   56

    Saharan countries. Infact, official development assistanceper capita inLesotho has dropped
    from around US$70 inthe early 1990sto US$15 by the early 2000s, well below the average for
    sub-Saharan Africa (Wason and Hall, 2003). Although this has since increased to US$42.50
    (UNDP, 2004) inthe wake o fmajor global disease initiatives, the highly earmarked and disease-
    specific nature o f these new financing flows restricts their ability to ease systemic problems.
   Aware o f this financing constraint, the Lesotho I-PRSP intends to increase concessional
    financing, even as it committed to dramatically improve tax generation (MDP, 2000).


           Table 5. Actual Capital Expenditures by Cooperating Partners, 2000/01 to 2002/03
                                            (InMillionMaloti)

      Cooperating           2000101           2001102             2002103              Total
       Partners
   ETJ                         0                 0                   2.9                2.9
   IrishAid                   4.8               6.1                  5.8               16.6
   ~




 KfW                           0                2.8                  5.5                8.3
 ADB                          3.1               2.2                  3.9                9.3
   IDA                        2.8               9.0                 13.1               24.9
 UNICEF                        0                3.7                  3.5                7.3
   WHO                         0                0.3                  1.2                 1.6
   Government o f             0.2               0.4                  1.3                 1.9
   Lesotho
   Total                      10.9             24.5                 37.3               72.7
I                                                                                                 ,
    Source: MOHSW Annual Joint Review, 2003.


   23.     Healthversus non-healthinvestment-Although the healthsector byitselfcannot
   deliver better health outcomes, additional health investments are necessary to enable Lesotho to
   make a dent inits disease burden. At US$28 per capita, health expenditures inLesotho remain
    low compared to other countries inthe region (Table 6). This level of resource flow needs to
   increase to approach the "ideal" (normative) resource level prescribedby a number o f studies.
   The WHO Commission on Macroeconomics andHealth estimates that the minimumcost o f
   essential treatments is betweenUS$30 andUS$40 per capita per year indeveloping countries.
   More recently, the GOALS model was applied inLesotho and estimated that, to achieve a drop
   o f 19 percent inHIV prevalence, a three-year national strategic budget o f up to US$47 per capita
 would be required for the national response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic (Gaillard, Moteete,
   Stover, Bollinger, Jaase, and Khobotle, 2002).




                                                    57

         Countries               TotalHealthExpenditures HealthExpendituresas %
                                      Per Capita(US$)                  of Government
                                                                        Expenditures
Botswana                                     191                              10.4
Lesotho                                      28                               7.4
Mozambique                                    9                               8.8
South Africa                                 255                              15.4
Swaziland                                    56                               7.4




24.     Publicversus privatesector focus-The largepublic-health dimension o fLesotho's
disease burdenwarrants continuing government involvement inthe health sector. The main
causes o f mortality andmorbidity continue to be infectious diseases (HIV/AIDS, other sexually
transmitted diseases, and tuberculosis), infant and childhood-,related diseases, and ailments and
deaths associated with childbearing.     On top o f these, malnutrition is a very serious problem,
with as much as 44 percent ofunder-five children stunted, 20 percent o fthem severely so.
Reflecting the gravity o fpublic health challenge, Basotho, who were asked to indicateproblems
they expect government to be actively involved in, placed very highpriority on health services (8
percent), more than other social services (1percent) (Gay and Green, 2001).

25.     As inmostpoor countries insub-Saharan Africa, improving health services inLesotho is
not an "either/or" choice betweenthe public or private sectors. Rather, given the scarcity o f
providers, pragmatism requires enjoining both government and non-government partners. The
GOL is a major healthprovider. Out o fthe 17 hospitals inthe country, nine are owned bythe
GOL and eightby the Christian Health Association of Lesotho (CHAL). About 80 percent o f
C H A L institutions are medium-sized health centers, C H A L serves up to 40 percent o f the total
population, however, GOL makes significant contributions to C H A L bypaying salaries o f all
C H A L nurses, nursingassistants, and other technical staff through subvention grants. In
2000/01, this salary subvention amounted to Maloti 18.6 million. GOL also provides support
through the treatment o f tuberculosis and malnutrition patients in C H A L facilities; this amounted
to Maloti 0.6 million in2000/01. Inall, C H A L subsidies accounted for 10.4 percent o f the
government budget in2000/01.

26.     A commonperceptionis that CHAL andNGOhealth facilities tend to be locatedinmore
inaccessible (poorer) areas than government facilities. To address this issue, Phase Io f the
project worked towards formalizing grant agreements between GOL and CHAL, so that C H A L
can cater to a greater number o f Basotho not withinreach o f government health services. The
HSRprojecthas supported this GOL-CHAL partnership inPhaseI, the partnershipgettinga
                                                                        with
boost after the signing o f the project-supported interim Memorandum o f Understanding(the final
version to be submittedshortly for Cabinet approval). The project's Supplementary Emergency
Financing Facility, signed inDecember 2002, provides C H A L with funds equivalent to 20
percent o ftheir operating cost for two years. Donations from sponsoring groups to CHAL,
however, have beengoingdown and are estimated to account for about 5 percent o f C H A L


                                                  58

facilities' total revenues (Bicknell, et al, 2002). Because o f this, it might be necessary to raise
GOL's subsidy to C H A L to as muchas 60 to 70 percent, with the remaining 25 to 30 percent
accounted for by fees. The HSRProject needs to deal closely with this issue inPhase11. The
project will also continue to work with traditional healers, as it has done inPhase I,   through
dialogue, training, and review o f legislationon traditional medicine. Support for NGOs was
initiated under the project, but these activities have been folded over into the new HIV/AIDS
project.

27.      Continuingvalidity ofAdaptable ProgramLending(APL) -For the most part, the
APL approachremainsavalid mechanism for providingIDAassistance. The majorproblems in
the sector are institutional and involve sector-wide capacitybuildingand systems strengthening,
issues that cannot be dealt with on a piecemeal basis. Therefore, a narrowly focused disease-
specific project or a short-term technical assistanceand capacity buildingintervention i s not
appropriate. Indeed, the proliferation of small projects i s a major problem that saps government
of its scarce management capacity, and shouldbe avoided as much as possible.

                        E. Project Benefits and Cost-Effectiveness Analysis

28.      BenefitsandCost-Effectivenessof DistrictHealthInvestment-As is the case inany
health systems project, benefits come intwo forms: proximate benefits interms o f systems
improvement andthe efficiencies they yield, and ultimate benefits interms o f health status
improvements or reductions inmortality and morbidity rates o fproject beneficiaries. The district
health package (DHP) o f services that has been the primary focus o f the project under Phase I
will continue inPhase 11. This package consists o f selected essential health interventionsthat
address the largest disease burden o f the country (resultinginexpected highest gains in
disability-adjusted life years), and delivered at a low cost. The DHP includes public health
interventions (health education andpromotion, immunization, nutrition, integratedmanagement
o f child health, and environmental health), control o f communicable diseases including
HIV/AIDS, other sexually transmittedinfections, and tuberculosis; sexual andreproductive
health (family planning, safe motherhood, adolescent health, prevention o f mother-to-child
transmission o fHIV/AIDS, and adolescent health), and essential clinical services for common
illnesses. The choice o f interventions included inthe DHP is premised on the principle that the
poor are better reached through these services. These services are all deemed as "best buys"
(Claeson, Mawji, and Walker, 2000); confirmatory reviews o f studies on the continuing validity
o fpublic investments specifically on nutrition and child health were recently publishedina
series o f articles in"The Lancet". The approach o f delivering these interventions through both
government facilities and contractdgrants to nongovernment organizations such as C H A L i s also
deemed appropriate.

29.      BenefitsandStrengthof Rationalefor PublicSector Involvementin QEII Hospital-
A full-scale analysis o fthe economic costs andbenefits o fthe QEIIHospital investment will be
made prior to actual construction inPhase 111. The results o f such an analysis will inform the
size o fthe hospital, and the types o f services it will provide on a sustainable basis. This section,
therefore, merely lays out the general rationale for hospital investments inLesotho, the economic
justification for moving inthe direction o f a public-private partnership, andthe possible risks
that such an arrangement engenders (andthe appropriate risk-mitigation measures).



                                                    59

30.     Preliminary technical assessmento fthe replacement o f QEIIHospital indicates that its
core services will consist o f 330 acute-care beds (extendable to 5 10 beds), plus 80-160 beds
designated for TB/AIDS patients (Bicknell, et al., 2002). The expected annual capacity,
measured ininpatient days and outpatient visits, is shown inTable 7. The QEIIHospital
replacement will undoubtedlyprovide extensive benefits to Basotho who will be requiringacute
andoutpatient care. The 100,010 annual inpatient days translate to about 25,000 patients,
assuming 4 days o f confinement per patient. Similarly, the 257,556 annual outpatient visits
translate to about 86,000 patients, assuming 3 visits per patient. Thus, roughly 111,000 patients
per year will directly benefit from the investment.


                 Table 7. ExpectedAnnual Capacity o f Queen Elizabeth I1Hospital

           Facilities              InpatientDays                    OutpatientVisits
                                                            OPD Clinics         CasualtyClinics
MainHospital                           100,o 10               103,168                 29,120
Qoaling Satellite Clinic                  0                    66,560                    0         \


Mabote Satellite Clinic                   0                    58,708                    0
               Total services          100,010                228,43 6                29,120



31.     The QEII Hospital replacement i s harder to justify. Interms o f cost-effectiveness,
stronger arguments canbe made for investing on proven, primary care interventions. Interms o f
benefits, incidence analysis also tends to favor primary care: studies clearly show the perverse
incidence o ftertiary hospital investments relative to primary care investments inAfrica, i.e., the
better-off tend to be heavier users ofmore expensive hospital services, dilutingthe economic
rationale o f public subsidies inthem. Moreover, research comparing the use o f filter hospital
services and health centers inLesotho show a greater proportion o f men and adults usingthe
former (Pepperall, et al., 1995), raising gender and age equity issues o f further investment in
hospitals.

32.     There are, however, immediate and longer-term considerations for investing inQEII
Hospital, and it would be unrealistic to imagine that a large share o fpublic expenditure would
not continue to be allocatedto the national referral hospital. Inthe context o f improving the
overall expenditure program, QEIIi s critical. The existing QEIIHospital i s widely seen to have
reached a level o f dysfunctionality that significant efficiencies can be gained (and health hazards
reduced) by replacing it. Overcrowding o f patients and the poor environment inthe existing
facility i s now posing a real risk o fnosocomial infection. The hospital provides the greatest
number o f services and the most complex medical care o f any hospital inthe country, and these
functions are being severely compromised by the poor physical infrastructure (Bicknell, et al.,
2002).

33.     Secondly, important ripple effects can be generated from having a referral hospital,
includinga stronger medicahursing training, continuingprofessional education (identified as a
contributory factor inthe poor retentiono f health workers), and healthresearch, most o f which
are ignored inconventional economic analyses o fhospital investmentsthat focus on the cost-


                                                  60

effectiveness andbenefit-incidence o f medical services only. InLesotho, as elsewhere inAfrica,
hospitals deliver more thanjust patient care; they are the locus ofprofessional education and
specialist training, and the spawning ground for health-sector leadership. They could undertake
essential health research, most ofwhich are currently "out-sourced" to foreign
professionaldentities, with the limitations that this arrangement entails. They are also an
important repository o f the country's medical practices, norms, and standards. The QEII
Hospital investment's spillover affects on human resource development is particularly important
given current skilldeficits inthe health sector. These strategic factors are also important to
consider inappraising hospital investments inapex hospitals such as QEII.

34.     Thirdly, replacingthe existing hospital andupgrading its services provides a unique
opportunity for the Government to rethink its policy o f financing hospital referral services
through non-budgetary means. (This will not be possible under the status quo, since there i s very
little basis for charging fees under dilapidated hospital conditions and poor services.) Thejust-
launched social health insurance program for civil servants i s expected to providesignificant
revenues to an upgraded QEIIHospital.

35.     Fourthly, the new hospital construction, ifcombined with service delivery under
contracts with private financiers through innovative financing mechanisms, can generate
potential substantial savings for the government as it sheds some o fthe financial risks to its
private partners under a public-private partnership (PPP) scheme. Such a scheme should ensure
that the new hospital does not absorb budgetary resources more thanwhat it already does; this
can be done with appropriate financing policy that works towards the generationo f a modicum
o f resources from internally generated funds. The positive externalities o f such a scheme, if
successful, can be significant inLesotho.

36.     The strength of rationale for public sector involvement inhospital services i s summarized
by Bamum andKutzin (1993) as follows (Table 8):




                                                  61

         Table 8: Strength and Rationale o f Public Sector Involvement inHospital Services

       Type of Service           Public         Exter-   Econo-     Infor-       Incom-        Merit
                                  goods       nalities   mies of   mation          plete       Goods
                                                           scale   Failure      Markets
Inpatient
  Communicable diseases         ..           **                    **           ***
  Chronic diseases                           *         ....        ***          ***
  Accidents                                  *           *                      ***         Depend on
  Mental health                                          *.                     **          social &
Surgery                         *                      ***         *****        **          political
Diagnostics                                  ***       **          **           **          values
Obstetrics
  Normal                        ..                     ..
  Highrisk                                  *          ..
                                             a .                   ***          ****
Outpatient
  Communicable diseases         ..           **                    **
  Chronic diseases                           *                     ***          **
                                                       ***.
  Emergency and trauma                                                          **
  Preventive care               **           ***                   **
Key:   ***  strong;** moderate; *                        ..
                                    applicable but weak; ,. o f negligible importance

Source: Bamum, H.andKutzin, J. (1993). Public Hospitals inDeveloping Countries.


37.      Cost-Effectiveness of ProposedApproach in QEIIHospital Investment - The Lesotho
healthteam met with government stakeholders and IFC staff on the most cost-effective approach
o f addressing the need to build andoperate the new QEIIHospital. Various alternatives were
considered. The traditional approach o f construction through private contractors is deemed cost-
ineffective since private firms involved only inthe design and construction o f the facility have
the incentive o f "over-designing" it. This moral hazardproblem manifests itself inthe fact that
the larger the hospital, the larger is their potential profit. Inlieu o f this approach, the World
Bank healthteam has advised the GOL to explore contracting mechanisms that combines both
the building(B) ofthe facility and its operation (0),and its eventual transfer (T) to the
government. Based on increasing evidence (Taylor and Blair, n.d.), significant efficiencies can
begained byBOT and other novelcontracting mechanisms to construct the new hospitaland to
deliver health services. BOT solves the moral hazardproblem by making the contractor bear the
risk for the constructionas well as the operationo fthe facility. For instance, ifthe contractor
overbuilds a facility, it will not be as profitable as when it i s built o f the right size. Achieving
cost-savings through such an approach hinges on the participation o f the private sector inlong-
term contracts for the design, financing, building, and operation o f hospital facilities, which may
be as long as 15 years (Taylor and Commander, n.d.).

38.      The eficiency gains ("value for money") from BOT are apparent, and the evidence base
i s increasing. Reviewingglobal case studies, Menheere and Pollalis (1996) concluded, "The
greatest advantage o f BOT for the government i s the subcontracting o f the majority o f the risks
to the private sector, with the latter willing to finance and assume risks inthe development o f a


                                                     62

public facility. At the end o f the concession period, the government will inherit a well-operated
project without investingpublic funds andwith little risks. A consequence o f not investing its
own money i s that the project can take place even ifthe government's budget i s limited. The
finance is obtainedby private organizations andthe execution o f the project i s independent ofthe
financial planning o fthe government. Furthermore, because the design, development, and
construction are all the responsibilitieso f a single party, the concessionaire, the facility should be
more effective and efficient."

39.     A more recent review (IFS, 2003) o fthe keydrivers o f "value-for- money" from BOT
schemes include the following:

        (a)     Risktransfer: The transfer to the private sector o f those risks that it is better-able
                to manage, which includes most risks associated with the design, construction,
                operation, technological change, and finance.

        (b)     Output-based specification: The requirement that services are specified interms
                o fpayment for a specified output, on which performance can be measured, has
                been linked to quality and timingo f delivery. This contrasts with the
                conventional approach to public procurement that is based on pre-determined
                fundingofinputs.

        (c)     Long-term nature o f contracts: The time profile o f contracts provides scope to
                recover costs o fthe initial investment, develop alternative approaches to service
                delivery, and focus on costing over the whole life o f the project.

        (d)     Competition: Value-for-money is easier to demonstrate where there is effective
                price-led competition.

40.     The equity effects o f BOT schemes, however, continue to be intractable. Very few studies
have examined the effect on poor communities o f the conversion (including contracting) o f
public hospitals. Studies inthe U.S. show contrasting results. Bovberg, et a1(2004) analyzed
closures and conversions of public hospitals infive U.S. cities and concluded that the converted
hospitals are strugglingto maintain funding for indigent care, and that a safety net program
funded outside o fwhat the converted hospitals generate intemally, i s necessary. However,
Legnini, et al. (1999) find that, inthe five hospitalsthey studied, access to care for low-income
patients have been preserved after conversion. Ifguidelines are inadequate, it i s possible that the
contractor will "cherry-pick" health services and maintain only those it deems to generate a
surplus, and get rid o f those that do not, although these might be the very services that the poor
need most. Although these are American experiences, they point to the same policy issues that
hospital conversion inLesotho would engender. To address these potential problems, the IFC
mission (February 2005) underscored the role o f the GOL as an active purchaser o f health
services, defining the key health services that it wants delivered to its citizens, setting goals, and
monitoring outcomes. As a policymaker, GOL needs to define appropriate user fee levels and
co-payments, as well as the needed waivers and exemptions for the poor, and how these can be
fundedout o fthe MOFDP's contribution, or through cross-subsidy mechanisms from private
patients, ifappropriate.




                                                   63

41,     The socio-political effects o fthese schemes also need to be carefully assessed. A major
cause o f concem i sjob losses following reorganization by the private contractor (Prokosch and
Dolan, 2001). To address this issue, IFC will recommendthat existingQEII health workers
move over to the new hospital operator under conditions no worse than their existing pay and
benefitconditions. The new operator will also be requiredto provide a training program for
healthprofessionals, which shouldbe the hallmark o f the PPP. Excessive foreign involvement
and the weak local participationincontracting and negotiationcan also derail the process, as
Lesotho leamed inits earlier privatization efforts inthe other (non-health) areas o fthe economy.
There is no easy solution to this problem, but there i s a clear need for both MOHSW and the
MOFDPto strengthen their technical capacity to negotiate, with technical assistanceto be
provided by both the World Bank andIFC. Finally, BOT i s new inLesotho, and although it i s
being discussed inother African countries, there is no precedent inthe health sector except in
South Africa, where it i s becomingthe standard practice. Towards this end, it would be
necessary to cull experiences and lessons inother sectors/countries, and use these to inform the
Lesotho PPP process.

                             F. Analysis of Sector andProject Financing

42.     Analysis of governmentbudgettrends-An analysis ofthe government budgetshows
that health sector allocations have not come under threat from 2000/01 to 2004/05 (Table 9).
Over the five-year period, the share o f MOHSW to the total government budget increased from
5.8 percent to 6.3 percent. The details of this budget also reflect increasing shares to MOHSW in
terms o f recurrent expenditures (6.1 to 6.5 percent), domestically-funded capital expenditures
(2.6 to 3.3 percent), and loan- and grant-funded capital expenditures (7.4 to 9.9 percent). Per
capita MOHSW budget figures also show increasing trends, whether interms o f the aggregate or
specific components o f the health budget.

43.     Although the health sector's share o f the budget i s increasing, it i s still relatively low at
6.3 percent in2004/05, and infact, lower than the 7.0 to 8.0 percent recorded inthe mid-1990s.
Other countries inthe region devote as much as 10percent o ftheir budgets to health, andAfrican
governments committed to devote as much as 15 percent o ftheir budgets to health inAbuja,
Nigeria duringthe African Union summit. Moreover, government documents (Thalane, 2004)
expressed concem that it is unlikelythat the health budgetwill rise significantly inreal terms
over the medium term. Thus, ensuring strong government commitment to the healthbudget will
be an important policy agendum under Phase I1o f the APL.




                                                 64

                   Table 9. Total GOL and MOHSW Budgets, 2000/01 to 2004/05

                 Items                I  2000/01   I  2001/02    I 2003/04     I  2004/05
                              GOLBudget. inMillionMaloti
t                                       " I
 GOLrecurrent budget (a)                   2,803        2,852        4,057         4,023
 GOL capitalbudget (b)                      273          297          320           361
 Total GOL budget (c=a+b)                  3,076        3,149        4,377         4,384
 Capital budget funded by loans and         380          506          526           483




 Sources of basic data: Budget speeches of Hon. K.Maope (2001) andThahane (2004).

 44.     Analysis of the MOHSW budget composition and performance - Table 10 shows the
 MOHSW recurrent expenditures for 2002/03, the latest year for which complete data are
 available. Interms o f functional expenditure shares, the spending patterno f MOHSW appears
 reasonable, with a good balance between personnel and non-personnel recurrent costs. Thus,
 38.3 percent o f spending is devoted to emoluments, 39.1 percent to operating costs, 9.0 percent
 to travel and transportation, andthe remaining 13.7 percent goingto subscription grants to
 CHAL. However, interms o f allocation by level, QEIIHospital continues to gamer a significant
 share o f actual expenditures, although it was able to operate within its budget, unlike most
 referral public hospitals insub-Saharan Africa. Thus, while it accounted for 31.7 percent o f the
 budget, its actual expenditures are only 28.2 percent o ftotal expenditures.




                                                  65

       Table 10. MOHSW Recurrent Expenditures, by Cost Center Groups and Functional Expenditure
                                             Classification, 2002/03

                                               (InMillionMaloti)

   Cost Center                               ActualExpenditures                               Total    Surplus
   Groupings       Emoluments Travel & Operating Subscriptions                    Total       Budget (Deficit)
                                   Transport       Costs                      Expenditures
                                                (incl. civil
                                                  works)
  Administration       5.2            15.5          2.9           30.3             54.0        31.7     (22.3)
  QEII Hosp.           29.1            0.5         33.0            0.0             62.5        63.9       1.4
 District              33.4            1.8         34.0            0.0             69.2        72.5       3.3
 hospitals &
 health services
 Lesotho               3.6             1.2          0.8            0.0              5.6         0.8      (4.7)
 FlyingDoctors
 Public health         11.8            0.6          11.0           0.0             23.4        26.3       2.9
 programs



I expenditures 1
       Source: Based on raw data from MOHSW Annual Joint Review, 2003.


       45.     Interms ofbudgetperformance, the budget overspendingofsome cost centers andthe
       underspendingo fothers (mostly district healthservices) is amajor concem. Overall, MOHSW
       overspent by Maloti 20.1 million, the lion's share o f the deficit being contributed by
       HQ/Administration and subscriptions (Maloti 22.3 million)and the Lesotho FlyingDoctors
       Service (Maloti 4.7 million). Although detailed data are not available, one could infer that the
       HQ/Administration deficit could have come mainlyfrom travel and transport and emoluments;
       the grants to CHALwhich supports emoluments ofkey staff, andthe LFDS deficit from
       emoluments. (For FY04/05, the government has set aside Maloti 321 million for the health
       sector, including a 5.5 percent salary adjustment for civil servants (Thahane, 2004)).

       46.       Incontrast to the overspending at higher levels, district healthofficeshavetended to
       under spend: among the 9 districts, 6 under spent and 3 overspent their budgets. This is a cause
       for concem, giventhe government's expressed policy o f focusing on rural health services. It
       appears that some districts cannot spend all resources that were allocated to them duringthe year,
       mainly because o f the severe shortage of financial management and accounts personnel. This i s
       a problem that mustbe solved, including possible outsourcing o f accounting and finance
       functions to certified public accounting firms.

       47.     Analysis of extra-budgetaryrevenues- The government has historically provided free
       treatment for tuberculosis, leprosy, immunization, and malnutrition-related illnesses for children



                                                        66

under five, pre- and post-natalcare, and inexceptional cases, subsidy for referral treatments in
SouthAfrica. Public assistance schemes are also inplace, thoughtheir scale i s small relative to
need. User fees are, however, charged inboth government and C H A L facilities, for other health
services. The government employs a uniform method o f charging for outpatients, delineated by
the level o f care (primaryor secondary) andthe age o f the patient (adult or child). Outpatients at
the health center are charged Maloti 2.50 (adult) and Maloti 5.00 (child). Outpatients at district
hospitals and QEIIHospital are charged Maloti 10.00 (adult) and Maloti 5.00 (child). Referrals
from health centers are charged Maloti 5.00 (adult) and Maloti 2.50 (child).

48.      Ifappliedappropriately, user fees can assist meetmultiple objectivesinthe health
sector, including enhancing financial sustainability, improving equity by charging those with
ability to pay and waiving poor persons and/or exempting public health services, and supporting
efficiency. However, a recent assessment shows remaining policy, technical, and capacity issues
inthe user fee system inLesotho(Ntlafalang Consultants, 2002):

                Fees are not retained at the point o f service; all revenues revert back to MOFDP.
                 Technically, user fee revenues are credited to Government income under the
                 consolidated account where all revenues are collected. This is a major
                 shortcoming o f the user fee program, as it provides no incentive for local
                 facilities. Global reviews o f user fee systems have concluded that fee retention is
                 a good practice.

                 Revenue collection is haphazard, and good accountingpractices are not well
                 institutionalized. Monitoringo f fee collection i s infrequent, if at all. There is a
                need for staff training, installation andmaintenance o f financial management
                 systems, and capacity building.

                Fees are not standardized. Among government facilities, fees have not been
                changed inwell over a decade, while the consumer price index has increased
                 about 10 percent per year since 1990. The government charges the lowest fee for
                 every service providedcompared to nonprofit and for-profit providers. Fees at
                 CHAL facilities, which receive government grants, are higher, but neither are they
                 standardized.

                Because o f the differential level infees ingovernment and C H A L facilities, and
                the more intensive fee generation inthe former, CHAL facilities recoverbetween
                24-48 percent o f costs from fees (average o f 32 percent) while MOHSW health
                 facilities only recover 6 to 11percent (average o f 9 percent). Compared to the
                overall MOHSW resources, fee revenues only account for 5 percent (Bicknell, et
                al., 2002). The recent rise infees inCHAL however, andthe heightened cost
                recovery are raising concerns that the program impedes its role inserving the
                poorer segments o f the population.

                There are no effective protection mechanisms to waive the poor from fee
                payment, andto require the nonpoor to pay. Thus, as Table 11shows, the
                proportion o f the poorest two quintiles o f households who reportedpayment is
                almost the same as the richest two quintiles (about 25 to 30 percent). The fact



                                                   67

               that the medianpayment i s LM5 to 10 suggeststhat much o f the care i s sought in
               MOHSW facilities, with those levels of fees. However, the muchhigher mean
               payment (2 to 4 times more) compared to the median payment, especially among
               the richer two quintiles, shows highercapacity to pay. The key to greater fee
                generation, therefore, i s to a gressively increase the percentage of households in
               these upper two quintiles (4t and Sth) who should pay.
                                              a

                   Table 11. Basotho Household Payments for Health Services
                              andDrugsinthePreviousMonth, 2000

     Household             Percentageof                           InMaloti
  IncomeQuintile            Households            MeanPaymentat           MedianPayment
                             Reporting                LastVisit              at LastVisit
                              Payment
 1(Poorest)                      24.9                       16                     5
 2                               30.3                      22                      9
 3                               27.6                      37                      10
 4                               23.3                      43                      5
 5 (Richest)                     30.9                      40                      10
 Total                           27.4                      32                      10



49.     Giventhe above findings, PhaseI1o fthe HSRProject should pursuethe following:
policy changes to adopt fee retention at collecting facilities, update o f fee schedules, fee waiver
for the poor, and aggressive fee collection for the non-poor. These can only be achieved with
stronger institutional capacity for fee policy development, financial systems, andmonitoring.

50.     Analysis ofthe sector expenditureprogram,its financing, andWorldBanksupport
-TheMarch2005versionofthemedium-termsectorexpenditureprogram(SEP), 2005/06to
2007/08, is summarized inTable 12. The World Bankmissionthat participatedinthe Annual
Joint Review found the SEP to be comprehensive, costed according to program activities, and
focused on keyprograms o f the MOHSW. However, the SEP does not follow the standard
budgetformat o fthe MOFDP, and is inexcess o fthe budget ceiling o fthe MTEF. While this is
a typical problem for countries inthe early stages o f the MTEFprocess, it is recommended that
the SEP evolve into the sector MTEF gradually over its life. Inthe deliberations duringthe
Annual Joint Review, the interests expressed ranged from supporting interventions with clearly
highdiseaseburdens (child health, maternalhealth, reproductive health, HIV/AIDS,STIs,
tuberculosis and other infectious diseases), to such interventions as oral health, cancers, and non-
infectious diseases with a lower disease burden. The analytical work on the essential health
package shouldprovide a stronger technical underpinningo fthe SEP.

The SEP wouldrequire Maloti 523.2 million over three years, equivalent to US$87.2 million.
This revisedSEP is far lower than the January 2005 version, which had abudget o fMaloti 810.8
million (USS135.1 million). Despite the down-scaling o f the program, however, the total
requirements still exceed the financial commitments o f Lesotho's development partners, as


                                                   68

shown inTable 13. Thus, out o ftotal SEP requirements o fMaloti 523.2 million, only Maloti
341.6 millionhavebeen committedthus far, reflecting a funding gap o fMaloti 181.6 million.
While total commitments exceed total requirements in2005/06, large gaps will be experienced in
the next two years ofthe program, unless (a) krther commitments are forthcoming, and/or (b)
further prioritization o f activities i s undertaken. Overall, the World Bank i s estimated to support
around 6.9 percent o fthe SEP.


           Table 12. Sector Expenditure Program, 2005'06 to 2007/08 (in `000 Maloti)

 Priority Areas          2005106         2006107     2007/08     Total      Total        Yo of
                                                                 Req'ts     World        World
                                                                            Bank         Bank
                                                                            Support      Support
                                                                                         to Total
                                                                                         Reqts
 Service delivery        53,502          72,3 10     85,260       211,072   15,217       7.2
 Decentralization        2,230           4,400       2,980        9,610
 Social welfare          2,710           3,180       3,255        9,145     -5,181       -53.9
 Pharmaceuticals         265              1,550      760          2,575     2,516        97.7
 Humanresources          5,405           7,057       6,508        18,97 1   210           1.1
 Monitoringand            1,410           1,925      430          3,765     1,092        29.0
 evaluation
 Contractual             30               80         30           140       -            -
 arrangements
 Buildinghealth          4,621            4,580      4,793        13,996    -
 partnerships
 Sector financing        900              1,810      1,310        4,020     1,020         25.4
 and financial
 management
 Infrastructure          39,715           107,650    102,500      249,865   8,067         3.2
 development and
 maintenance
 Total                    110,788         204,543    207,827      523,158   36,339        6.9
Note: The Maloti 36.3 million World Bank support includes Maloti 3.0 for program management
TA.
Sources: MOHSW, March 2005; World Bank.




                                                     69

        Table 13. Financial Commitments o fDevelopment Partners, 2005/06 to 2007/08
                                          (in`000 Maloti)


Partners          2005106             2006107             2007108             Total
                                                                              Commitments
Government        87,366              14,000               14,700             116,066
D C Ireland       9,570               9,672               9,594               28,836
WHO               2,600               -                   -                   2,600
UNICEF            5,160               3,000                3,000              11,160
Global Fund       5,500               6,000                5,000              16,500
NORAD             1,260                                                       4,179
KfW               1,400               -1,665              -1,254              1,400
ADB               41,000              44,500              39,000              124,500
World Bank        12,113              12,113               12,113             36,339
Total             165,969             90,950               84,66 1            341,580
Note: World Bank support i s assumed to be US$6.56 million over three years, or an annual
average o fMaloti 12.113 million.
Source: MOHSW, March2005; World Bank.

51.     Previous experience inLesotho does indicate the sector's relatively low absorptive
capacity especially inthe capital account (around 45 percent for 2004/05). For this reason, it
may be worthwhile to "stretch" the medium-term program into five or more years, to account for
the delayed implementation o fplanned activities. The MOHSW also needs to establish a
transparent process for prioritizing costed activities to fit the resource requirements within the
available government budget andpartners' commitments. The task o fprioritization lies with the
Financial Management Committee (FMC) whose members havebeen appointed at the central
level, and have been given a specific scope o fwork. The F M C needs to meet more regularly,
and its meeting agenda should focus on strategic issues o f the SEP, rather than the routine
problems o fthe Ministry.



                                            References

Bamum, Howard and Joseph Kutzin (1993). Public Hospitals in Developing Countries:
Resource Use, Cost, Financing. Johns Hopkins UniversityPress.

Bicknell, W., R. Feeley, A. Beggs, C. Bowman, M.M.Pule, N.C. Moji, B. Puglisi, and M.
Ramatlapeng (2002). Economic Study of Referral Health Services in Lesotho: The Future of
Queen Elizabeth I1Hospital. Volumes Iand 11. BostonUniversity School o f Public Health.
Boston.

Bovberg, Randall R., Jill A. Marsteller, andFrank Ullman (2004). Health Care for the Poor
and Uninsured After a Public Hospital Closure or Conversion. UrbanInstitute. Washington,
D.C.



                                                 70

Bureau of Statistics (n.d.). Core Welfare IndicatorsQuestionnaire (CWIQ) 2002. Maseru.

Bureau of Statistics (May 2002). 2000 EndDecade Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey. Draft
Preliminary Report. Fundedby UNICEF.

Bureau of Statistics (2004). Lesotho Reproductive Health Survey 2002. www.bos.Eov.ls.

Butcher, Andrew (May 2002). Commissioning New Hospital Facilities in South Africa: A
Manual of Good Practice, 2nded. HLSP Consulting, London.

Castro-Leal(2000). Public Spending on Health Care in Africa: D o the Poor Benefit? Bulletin
of the World Health Organization, 78 (l),66-78.
                                            pp.

Central Bank of Lesotho (2004). Statistical Tables. www.centralbank.org.ls/statistics.

Claeson, Mariam, T. Mawji, and Christopher Walker (2000). Investing inBest Buys: A
Review of the Health, Nutrition, and PopulationPortfolio, FY 1993-99. HNP Discussion
Paper. World Bank.

Gaillard, Eric M.,M.M.Moteete, John Stover, Lori Bollinger, Jaase Ntsiuoa, and Mokete
Khobotle(June 2002). GOALS Modelling inLesotho: Using a Resource Allocation Model
to Assess Lesotho's HIV/AIDS Budget and its Impact on the Country's Epidemic. Paper
presented at the Intemational AIDS Conference, Barcelona, June 2002.

Gay, John and Thuso Green(October 2001). Citizen Perceptions of Democracy, Governance,
and PoliticalCrisis inLesotho. Afrobarometer PaperNo. 13.

Government of Lesotho (2000). Lesotho Health Sector Reforms Plan. MinistryofHealth and
Social Welfare. Maseru.

Holdsworth, G., P.A. Garner, and T. Harphan (1993). Crowded Outpatient Departments in City
Hospitals of Developing Countries: A Case Studyfrom Lesotho. International Journal of
Health Planning Management. 8 (4): 315-324.

International Finance Corporation (February 2005). Mission Report. Washington, D.C.

Intemational Financial Services (IFS) (2003). Public Private Partnerships. London.
www.ifsl.orE.uk.

International Monetary Fund(IMF) (January 2002). Lesotho Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper Preparation Status Report. www.imf.org.

Legnini, Mark W., StephanieE. Anthony, Elliot K.Wicks, Jack A. Meyer, Lise S. Rybowski,
andLarry S. Stepnick (January 1999). Privatization of Public Hospitals. Economic and Social
ResearchInstitute. Report prepared for the HenryJ. Kaiser Family Foundation.




                                              71

Martin, Gayle (October 2003). A ComparativeAnalysis of the Financing of HIV/AIDS
Programmes inBotswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, South Africa, Swaziland, and
Zimbabwe. Human ScienceResearchCouncil. HSRC Publishers.

MedicalCare Development Intemational (MCDI) (2000). Lesotho Health Study: Final
Report. Washington, D.C.

Menheere, SebastiaanC.M. and Spiro Pollalis (1996). Case Studies on Build-Operate-
Transfer. Facultyof Architecture, Delft Universityo f Technology, Delft, The Netherlands.

Ministry ofDevelopment Planning (December 2000). InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy
Paper. Kingdom o f Lesotho. Maseru.

MinistryofHealthand Social Welfare (July 2004). Human Resources Developmentand
Strategic Plan 2005-2025. Maseru.

Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (March2005). Draft worksheet on the 200.5106-2007108
spendingpriorities, by broad objectives and activities. Maseru.

Ntlafalang Consultants (July 2002). Final Report for User Fee Study. Report submittedtot he
Ministry of Healthand Social Welfare. Maseru.

OED (August 28,2001). Lesotho: Joint ADB-WorldBank Country Assistance Evaluation.
OEDReach, No. 35.

Omole, Davidson A. (February 2003). Poverty inLesotho: A Case Study and Policy Options.
Department of Economics, NationalUniversityo f Lesotho.

Marek, Tonia, Chiaki Yamamoto, and JeffRuster (n.d.). Private Health: Policy and Regulatory
Optionsfor Private Participation. Public Policy for the Private Sector. World Bank.

Pepperall, J., P. Gamer, J. Fox-Rushby, N.Moji, and T. Harpham (1995). Hospital or Health
Centre?A Comparison of the Costs and Quality of Urban Outpatient Services in Maseru,
Lesotho. International Journal of Health Planning and Management. 10 (1): 59-71,

Prokosch, Mike andKarenDolan(October 2001). Our Communities are Not for Sale: Local-
Global Links in the Fight Against Privatization. United for a Fair Economy, Institutefor
Policy Studies.

Rondinelli, Dennis A. (n.d.). Partnering for Development: Government-Private Sector
Cooperation in Service Provision.

Sechaba Consultants (2002). Poverty and Livelihoods inLesotho 1999: More Than a
Mapping Exercise. Working Draft No. 1.

Taylor, Rob and SimonBlair (n.d.). Public Hospitals: Optionsfor Reform through Public-
PrivatePartnerships. Viewpoint. www.worldbank.ordhtml1fpdlnotes.


                                               72

Taylor, Robert and Catherine Commander O'Farrel (n.d.). Contracting for Health Services -
Private Provision for Public Benefit. International Finance Corp.

Thahane, Timothy T. (February2004). Continuing to BuildFoundations for Sustainable
Delivery of Services to the People. Budget speech to the Parliament o f Lesotho for 2004/05
Fiscal Year. Maseru.

UnitedNationsDevelopment Program (UNDP) (2004). Human Development Report 2004:
Cultural Liberty inToday's World. New York.

UnitedNations Development Program (UNDP) andUNICEF(2002). The Millennium
Development Goals inAfrica: Promises and Progress. New York.

UnitedNations Fundfor Population Activities (UNFPA) (2003). Country Profiles for
Population and Reproductive Health: Policy Developments and Indicators -Lesotho.
www.unfpa.org.

Wason, Deborah andDavidHall (2003). Poverty inLesotho 1993 to 2002: An Overview of
Household Economic Status and Government Policy. CPRC Working PaperNo. 40.

World Bank (Forthcoming). ImprovingHealth, Nutrition, and Population Outcomes in Sub-
Saharan Africa: The Role of the World Bank. Washington, D.C.

WHO (2003). The World Health Report 2003: Shaping the Future. Geneva.




                                              73

                                Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                          LESOTHO: HealthSector ReformPhaseI1

HealthCareWaste

RiskAssessment andAnalysis

Duringproject preparation, Government ofLesotho carriedout amedicalwaste management
assessment and developed a plan for improving the management o fmedical waste. The risk
assessment and analysis o f the situation inLesotho i s based on the medical waste management
assessment.

Most waste generated inhealthcare establishments can be treated as regular municipal solid
waste. But a varying proportion o f H C W requires special attention, including sharps (e.g.
needles, razors, and scalpels), pathological waste, other potentially infectious waste,
pharmaceutical waste, biological waste, and hazardous chemical waste. Collectively, these
wastes are known as "special healthcare waste". Inaddition, all waste generated under certain
circumstances, such as inisolationwards and microbiological laboratories, requires special
attention. Other waste streams generated by H C W could include packaging, reusable medical
equipment, and secondary waste created through disposal technologies. The mismanagement o f
healthcare waste poses risks to people and the environment. Healthcare workers, patients, waste
handlers, waste pickers, andthe general public are exposed to health risks from infectious waste
(particularly sharps), chemicals, and other special HCW. Improper disposal o f special HCW,
including open dumpinganduncontrolled burning, increases the risk o f spreading infections and
o f exposure to toxic emissions from incomplete combustion. For these reasons, occupational
health and safety should be a component o f H C W management plans.

Transmission o f disease generally occurs through injuries from contaminated sharps. Infections
o fparticular concern are Hepatitis B (HBV), Hepatitis C (HCV), and the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV). HBV, for example, can remain infectious for a week, even dried
at room temperature, and the probability that a single needle stick will result insero- conversion
i s approximately 30 percent. For HIV and HCV, the probability that a single needle stick will
result insero-conversion is 0.3-0.5 percent and 2-5 percent, respectively. Inthe healthcare sector
alone, the World Health Organization estimates that unsafe injections cause approximately
30,000 new HIV infections, 8 million HBV infections, and 1.2 million H C V infections
worldwide every year. Toxic risks arise among others from reagents (particularly laboratory
reagents), drugs, andmercury thermometers.

Furthermore, sensitivity i s needed inthe management o f special H C W when dealing with
biological waste. While the Basotho cultures burythe dead, they have definite views on the
disposal and burial o fbody parts. It i s important to consider cultural factors inthe disposition
plans o f special HCW. Additionally, appropriate consideration o f local community perception in
the proposed waste management planfor all H C W i s integral to a sustainable disposition plan.

Normallynurses andthe cleaning staff and grounds workers are responsible for day-to-day
management of HCW. The list is however longer; engineers, inspectors and drivers are also


                                                  74

involved and may be equally exposed. Proper H C W M extends beyond the health facility site.
Removing untreated potentially infectious H C W from the facility further exposes the public to
the risk; hence on site treatment shouldbe a better option.

Main findings fromMedicalWaste ManagementAssessment
The medical waste management assessmentrevealedthat health care waste management is not
assigned to any specific authority, segregation ofhealth care waste i s not observed by the
medical staff, protective equipment i s lacking for staff engaged inhandling health care waste,
poor maintenance o f equipment from the incinerator to the sewerage network and inadequate
training o f health staff on management o fhealthwaste. There i s lack o f coordination and
collaboration among government ministries inthe management o f health care waste. The
conclusion o fthe assessment is that current arrangements for the management o fhealth care
waste are grossly inadequate.

Stepsto improvemanagementof medicalwaste

The assessment outlined a three-year plan for improving medical waste management. The three-
year plan broadly includes (i) enhancement o f the legal and regulatory framework for
management ofhealth care waste, (ii)   training o f health care workers on the management and
handling ofhealth care waste, (iii) provision o f equipment andprotective clothing for staff
handlingmedical waste, including incineration, and (iv) increasingpublic awareness and
resource mobilization for medical waste management.

The plan also provided the following recommendations:

(i) MinistryofHealthandotherstakeholderssharethefundingofthecapitalcostsfor
   The
implementationo f the medical waste plan. Other related operational costs can be funded within
the recurrent budgets o f individual ministries. The department of environmental health inthe
MOHSW should be assigned the responsibility o f ensuring that all healthcare facilities
implement the proposedH C W M plan. Two committees -National H C W M Committee and
District H C W M Committees have to be established.
(ii) MedicalWasteManagementPlan,throughthenationalHCWMcommitteeandDistrict
    The
H CWM Committee should be widely disseminated.
(iii)Regulations on Hazardous waste and technical guidelines shouldbe developed to address
day-to-day operational issues.
(iv) A system for evaluation, licensingand monitoring o fprivate sector participation in
hazardous waste management should be developedto enable considerable participation o f
private sector.

Implementationarrangements

The MOHSW, as implementing agency for the project, will implement the medical waste
management plan. The Environmental HealthUnitwill play technical leadership role in
collaboration with the Health Planning and Statistics Unit, with support provided by the national
health care waste management committee and the district health care waste management
committee. The Ministry will work with other stakeholders indevelopment o f guidelines and



                                                  75

disseminationto all health facilities. The monitoring o f implementationof the waste
management planwill be integrated to the overall monitoring and evaluation system. Annual
progress ofimplementationofthe MWMP, and actual improvement inMWM,will be monitored
and analyzed as part ofthejoint annual review process. The project will finance the civil works
related to the incineration sites.




                                                76

                         Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision
                          LESOTHO: Health Sector ReformPhaseI1

                                                Planned               Actual
PCNreview                                       9/9/2003              9/9/2003
InitialPID to PIC                                                    9/20/2003
Initial ISDS to PIC                                                  9/20/2003
Appraisal                                      10/18/2004            6/03/2005
Negotiations                                   05/02/2005            8/15/2005
BoardRVP approval                              07/11/2005
Planned date o f effectiveness                 10/10/2005
Planned date of mid-termreview
Planned closing date                           03/30/2009

Keyinstitutions responsiblefor preparationofthe project:
Ministry of Healthand Social Welfare, Maseru, Lesotho

Bank staff andconsultantswho worked on the project included:

Name                                        Title                     Unit
 Muhammad Ali Pate              Public Health Specialist/Team        AFTH1
                                           Leader
Julie McLaughlin                    LeadHealth Specialist            AFTH1
Andrew Follmer                    Senior Operations Officer          AFTH1
Peter Okwero                       Senior Health Specialist          AFTH1
Oscar Picazo                    Senior HealthEconomist               AFTH1
EmmanuelMalangalila                Senior Health Specialist          AFTH1
Helen Taddesse                        Program Assistant              AFTH1
Lori Geurts                          Operations Analyst              AFTH1
ShirleyFaragher                   Senior Program Assistant           AFCOl
JonathanNyamukapa                  Financial Management              AFTFM
                                          Specialist
Modupe Adebowale                    Senior Finance Officer           LOAG
SlaheddineBen-Halima             Senior Procurement Specialist       AFTPC
Aberra Zerabruk                            Lawyer                    LEGAF
SelphaNyairo                            LegalAssociate               LEGAF
Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt             Environmental Specialist           AFTS2

Bank funds expendedto date on projectpreparation:
    1. Bankresources: $120,000
    2. Trust funds: 0
    3. Total: $120,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remainingcosts to approval: $40,000
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: $90,000


                                              77

                        Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File
                      LESOTHO: Health Sector ReformPhaseI1

1.   CAS of June 4,1998
2.  Demographic health survey2001
3.  Baselinehealth survey
4.  Health informationsystem
5.  Sentinel surveillance
6.  Public Sector Improvement and Reform Project
7.  Health Sector Reform Strategy
8.  ImplementationPlan andbudget for Phase I
9.  Strengthening Lesotho's Health care System(Bank ESW)
10. HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan andPolicy ( 1999)
11. 1996 Sectoral roundtable Consultationdocument
12. Healthand Social Welfare Sector Plan ( 1995/6- 1999/0
13. Health and Social Welfare policy-FinalDraft sep 21,2003
14. Economic Study o fReferral health services inLesotho: The future of QEII Hospital-i)
    Review ofFindings andRecommendations( BostonUniversity) ii)Executive Summary
    andFinalreport Vol. 1.
15. District healthpackage-FinalReport, June 2003
16. The Finance Manager report on the Financial Impact assessment*
17. Towards a HealthFinancing Policy for Lesotho -Draft report by Gayle H.MartinJune
    2003
18. First progress Reporton Health Sector ReformProgram - Jan 2000 -October 2000- By
    Planning UnitMOHSW
19. SecondQuarter Monitoring and evaluation Report 2003/2004
20. Annual Joint Review: SecondProgress report -Nov 2000- October 2001
21. Third Annual Joint Review Nov 2002
22. PAD May 11,2000
23. DCA May 10,2000
24. Report on the Annual Joint Review meeting Nov 13-14,2000
25. Estatemanagement Report FinalReport October 8,2002
26. Phase IImplementation Schedules as at the endo f Appraisal Dec 10, 1999
27. Lesotho HealthSector Reform PlanMarch2000
28. Lesotho HealthSector Reform: Health and Social Welfare Strategic Action Plan
    2000-2010 (NOV   2003)
29. LAPCA -Administrative andManagement Support to the IDA HIV/AIDS Component -
    ProgressReport covering May 2004 - September
30. MOHSW Health Sector Reforms Phase ICompletion Report (PCR) Drafi zero October
    2004
31. Minutesof5thsix-weekly meetingbetweenMOHSW Management andDevelopment
    PartnersAugust 10,2004
32. Health sector Reform Programme Review Paper-MOHSW November 2003.




                                          78

33.  Performance Review of the SupplementaryEmergency Financing Facility (SEFF)-
    September2004
34. Work Plan2004 - Pilot DistrictBasedHMIS insupport of M&E, February 2004
35. Monitoring andEvaluationReport: April -June 2004
36. Midterm Review Reportof 8th EuropeanDevelopment FundJune 19,2004
37. HealthManagement System- Strategic Plan 2004-2008
38. Map o f district boundariesshowing hospitals, private facilities (CHAL) andMOHSW
    facilities.
39. Monitoring andEvaluation Strategic Plan-2004- 2008
40. Health Management InformationSystemGuidelinesPolicy-August 2003
41. Information Communication Technology Policy Guidelines-2003
42. Monitoring and Evaluation Policy Guidelines- October 2003
43* SelectedIndicators-Lesotho Health and Social Welfare Sector ReformProgram
44. Annual Joint Review Report - 2004/05
45.  Medium-TermExpenditure Framework 2005/08
46. NationalMedical Waste ManagementPlan 2005-2008.
47. Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Health Sector ReformProject
    (Phase I).




                                          79

                                          Annex 13: StatementofLoans and Credits
                                         LESOTHO: HealthSectorReformPhaseI1

                                                                                                                            Differencebetween
                                                                                                                            expectedand actual
                                                                 Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                   IBRD         IDA       SF        GEF     Cancel,   Undisb.    Orig.     Frm.Rev'd

PO81269     2004   ESDP I1(Phase 2)                              0.00     21.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     21.25     2.71         0.00
PO52367     2002   MALOTI-DRAKENSBERG CONSERV.                   0.00      0.00      0.00      7.32      0.00     7.54      2.69         0.00
                   & DEVELOP.
PO70673     2001   Utilities SectorReformProject                 0.00     28.60      0.00      0.00      0.00     17.98     11.17        0.00
PO53200     2000   Health Sector Reform                         0.00       6.50      0.00      0.00      0.00     2.71      2.36         0.67
PO01409     1998   HILANDWATER E3                              45.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      9.00     15.64     20.98        8.64

                                                      Total:   45.00      56.10      0.00      7.32      9.00     65.12     39.91        9.31




                                                                LESOTHO
                                                        STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                     Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                        InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                                 Committed                                    Disbursed

                                                                IFC                                          IFC
        FY Approval    Company                      Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.    Loan        Equity     Quasi      Partic.




                                   Total portfilio:  0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00




                                                                              Approvals PendingCommitment
                        FY Approval     Company                            Loan        Equity       Quasi       Partic.




                                             Total pendingcommitment:      0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                                      80

                                                Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                       LESOTHO: HealthSector ReformPhaseI1
                                                                Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan    Low-
                                                    Lesotho    Africa  income        Development diamond'
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                             2.1    686     2,495                 Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                          460     450      430
                                                                                                        T
GNI(Aflas method, US$ billions)                           100     306     1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                     I
Population(%)                                              15      2.4       1.9
Laborforce (%)                                             18      2.5      2.3      GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                     per                        -- primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996.02)                             capita                           enrollment
Poverty(%of populatlonbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation (%oftotalpopulation)                       29       33       30
Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                              43       46       59                          I
                                                                                                         i
Infant mortaiity(per IOOOlivebirths)                       92      1)5       81
Chiidmalnutrition (%ofchildren underti)                    18                             Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (%ofpopulation)          78       58       76
Illiteracy(%of population age 154                          13       37       37
Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschool-age population)         115      66       95            -.--  Lesotho
   Male                                                    It?      92      1)3                   Low-incomegroup
   Female                                                  113      80       87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                              1982      I992     2001    2002
                                                                                      Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                              0.40     0.82     0.76     0.78
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   43.5     46.8     40.2     37.2
Exports of goods and ServicesiGDP                                                                      Trade
                                                 15.6     18.1    43.6     60.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     -63.5     -55.2    -U.6     -t?.l
Gross national savingsiGDP                      46.3      Q.9     24.3     25.2

Currentaccount balance/GDP                       5.5      4.5     -15.0    - a 7     Domestic
Interestpayments/GDP                                       16      2.7       2.7     savings                          Investment
Total debt/GDP                                            60.5     96.1     81.8
Total debt service/exports                         ....   4.6      116       9.o
Presentvalue of debt/GDP                                                                                 1
                                                                  53.2
Presentvalue of debtkxports                                       74.2                              Indebtedness
                                    1982-92 1992.02     2001    2002 2002-06
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                      5.6     3.3       3.2     4.0       4.3            -Lesotho

GDP DercaDita                            3.4      14       18      2.7       2.9                    Low-income orouD


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                               I9a2     Igg22o01         2o02       1Growth of investment and GDP (%)           1
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                     23.5      TT.7     18.5     18.3      10

Industry                                        27.2      40.0     415     42.4       0
  Manufacturing                                  7.7       7.6     0.0       0.0
Services                                        49.3      42.3    39.9     39.4      -10

Private consumption                             01.6     Q7.9     82.5     78.5          I
Generalgovernment consumption                   25.9      27.3     32.1    33.6
imports of goods and services                   Q2.8      PO.1    98.4     10.0                ----.GDI        -GDP


                                            1982-92 1992-02      2001     2002
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                 Growth of exports and imports (%)

Agriculture                                      2.9       3.4     2.7       2.2
Industry                                         9.0       4.0     4.5       5.7
  Manufacturing                                  8.4       5.3      7.5      8.9
Services                                         4.3       3.4      18       2.7

Private consumption                              13.1     -10      3.2      -0.5
Generalgovernmentconsumption                     5.2       5.9     -6.5      7.6
Gross domestic investment                       36.5      -0.2     -3.7     -4.6
Imports of goods and services                    0.5       14      13.5     15.O   I         -Exports         .-o-IIlpOrtS      I




                                                                     81

         2081   2802


                  b's
                  Y 5




                   t i



         2001   2002        pori and I   ' I
          288     303
           23      %I                     I
             6     6U
             ti    $l
          875     7%
                   73
                   In
                   zf4




         ZB01   2002

           3%     484
                  878


 $4b
"p4::

                   4s
 334        tJ1    a!,
  .e         u      -6    *P


          'io7    407
           8 6     kf6



         2001    2002

          734     638
            51     37
           2'R     2 8

            63     ti4
             B     27
             8       5


             31     31
             21      2
             -2     -3




                     0
                    2ti
                    3

                                                                                             Annex 15




                                Uffice of the Minister of Finance
                              RO. Box 14966,Mnseru 100,Lesotho
                 Tel: 22310826 Fix: 22311041 enmil: ihahanel@f?nance.gov,Is

Ref: FINh'OLC.3                                                            17'hJune 2005

Mrs.RitvaS. Reinikka
World Bank Country Directorfor BLNS Countries
World Rank Country Office                                                                  . .     .
1 FloorPro-EquityCourt
 ''                                                          . ,  ,
                                                             . I



1250PretoriusStreet
Hatfield 0028                                                                                 I....,,
PRETORIA0083                                          ..._.:.     .
                                                               I        ,.,~,.......... .-..*.-.-.

Republicof SouthAfrica

Dear Mrs.Reinikka

LETTER OF SECTORPOLICY ON PHASEI f OFHEALTHSECTOR REFORM
                               PROGRAMINLESOTHO

In year 2000, the World Bank Boardapproved a 10 year program of financial support to
the Government o f Lesotho for Health Sector Reform Program which would be
implemented in 3 phases. Movementto each subsequent phase would be triggered by the
attainment of agreed upon indicators or milestones. The first phase was implemented
from 2000 to 2005. All triggers for moving into phase I1have been achieved. This letter
outlines the strategic direction in the health sector and the measures proposed under the
planwhich the Bank is requestedto support under phase 11.

1. Backgroundto the healthand socialwelfare sector inLesotho

    1.1Countryprofile

   Lesotho is a landlocked country completely surrounded by South Africa with a
   borderline of 909 km and an area of 30,355 sq km. The country is mostly
   mountainous. Arable land constitutes only 11YO.The estimated population is 2.2
   million people. Over 70% of the population lives in rural areas. The population is
   youthful with 43% being under 15 years of age. Lifeexpectancy is 45 years for males
   and 54 years for females. Total fertility rate is 4.2

   1.2 Povertystatus

   As articulatedinthe Poverty ReductionStrategy, poverty incidenceis estimated to be
   50%. Lesotho is number 132 out o f 173 in the HumanDevelopmentIndex ranking(in
   the year 2000).

  1.3 The objectives of the MOHSW

  The objectives of the health and social welfare sector are:
  0   To reduce morbidity, mortality, misery and human suffering amongst the Basotho
  0   To reduce inequalities in health and social welfare and in access to health and
      social welfare services
      To improve the health status and social welfare o f the population for
      socioeconomic development

  1.4 Guidingprinciples

 The political commitment by government to poverty reduction and social welfare will
 provide critical guidance in priority setting and resource allocation. The Primary
 Health Care adopted in 1979 will be maintained. The principle of equity will ensure
 all Basotho shall have equal access to basic health care and social services. Particular
 attention shall be paid to resource distribution patterns to identify and accelerate the
 correction of any disparities.

 To ensure accessibility and availability all services shall be progressively extended to
 reach all communities. Special attention shall be given to the disadvantaged regions
 and underserved communities.

  1.5 Gender balance

  Gender sensitivity and responsiveness shall be applied in health and social service
 planning and implementation. Special consideration shall be accorded women due to
 their generally lower status in the society and their special role in reproduction.
  Where men have been disadvantaged by lack o f education, special effort will be made
  to support them

2 Componentsof PhaseIof the HealthSector ReformProgram

  Phase Io f the reforms focused on institutional capacity building, a key area essential
  for improving access to health services and quality o f care provided. The program is
 jointly supported by the Government o f Lesotho and its partners including the
 Development Cooperation Ireland, WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, UNDP, UNAIDS,
 ADB and EU. Its main focus was on the following areas: i)Financial Management ii)
  Human     Resources    iii) District   Health    Package    iv)   Decentralization   v)
  Pharmaceuticals vi) Infrastructure vii) Partnerships. Monitoring and Evaluation
  (M&E)is a cross cutting component.

 During Phase 1 a health sector policy was developed and approved by Cabinet. A
  strategic plan for 2005/06 to 2010/11 was also developed based on the policy.
  Subsequently a three year healthsector plan that had costs attached \vas developed for
  the 2005/06 to 2007/08 period. This was based on the strategic plan. The three year

   sector plan i s the road map for the health and social welfare sector over the planned
   period.

3. Milestones achieved inPhase i

  i. FinancialManagementSystems
  Duringphase Io fthe project financial management structures were put inplace. These
  were the Project Accounting Unit (PAU), Financial Management Unit (FMU) and
  Procurement Unit. The PAU is responsible for accounting o f all donor finds. The
  FMU was responsible for developing capacity skills and systems. This included
  development o f a financial management information system, a computerized system
  for the input of data for MTEF, and training o f accounting staff on these areas o f
  budgeting and financial management. Monthly consolidated expenditure and revenue
  reports were produced. A Financial Management Committee was responsible for
  tracking expenditures and decision making at central level. Lack o f qualified personnel
  such as accountants and accounting clerks at district and program level were the major
  draw back. The procurement unit was set up and is responsible for procurement o f all
  goods and services based on procurement plans.


 ii. HumanResources

   Human Resource needs assessmentwas conducted and a strategic plan developed. The
   strategic plan covers the period 2005 to 2025. It outlines, amongst others, the
   strategies to increase pre-service training to meet staffing requirements, strategies to
   retain and motivate staff, career ladders for different categories o f staff, and optimum
   staffing levels for the various health facilities. A computerized data base on Human
   Resource Management Information was set up and should become operational in the
   next phase o f the reforms.

iii. DistrictHealthService

   A district health package was defined during phase Iand this has set priorities for
   service delivery. The package defined priority health areas for interventions and the
   staff and equipment required at different levels to provide this package of quality
   health service in the context o f Lesotho. This i s expected to guide decisions on
   resource allocations and training.

iv.     Decentralization

   The institutional structures for service delivery at the district level comprise of
   District Health Management Teams (DHMTs) for which three have already been
   established during Phase Io f the project. The DHMTs will be responsible for the
    implementation of the district health package and will be the focus for attainment of
   health outcomes in the future. The DHMTs o f the three learning districts have
   received training in aspects of district health systems duringphase 1 and have started

   planning and managing services at this level. Lessons learned from these will be
   invaluable when decentralization i s rolled out to the remaining seven o f the total ten
   districts.

 v.     Pharmaceuticalservice

   A review for the Pharmaceutical Sector was made during phase I and
   recommendations from the review started to be implemented during this phase. The
   National Medicines Policy was developed and a strategic plan for implementation o f
   the policy drawn up.The new medicines policy aims to ensure regular access to good
   quality medicines at affordable cost to all Basotho, and will lead towards the
   establishment o f the Medicines Control Authority once the legislation has been
   approved. The Essential Drug List has been reviewed and this will ensure that
   selection o f drugs is based on sound therapeutic rationale. Work to increase
   warehousing at the National Drug Supply Authority (NDSO) was initiated. A
   consulting firm will establish training manuals, guidelines, and standard operating
   practices for NDSO. Phase I1will see further implementation o f the recommendations
   o f the Pharmaceutical Sector review.

vi.     Infrastructure development

   A long term infrastructure investment plan has beenproduced. It outlines the gaps in
    attaining norms for infrastructure at the different facilities according to level o f care.
   Inthis regardthe evaluation ofthe apex referralhospital indicatedthat a new hospital
   has to be constructed due to the poor state o f the facility.       The need for facility
   maintenance is also highlighted. An inventory o f the state o f all health facilities,
    including staff accommodation, was carried out. In addition an inventory o f medical
   and non medical equipment was also achieved. A rationalizationstudy on the use and
   distribution o f health facilities was another important study done. The findings o f all
   these studies in phase Iinformed the formulation o f the infrastructure investment plan
   which will be the guide to further infrastructure development in phase TI.

   Duringphase Ia health waste management planwas also developed. Implementation
   of this plan in phase I1will form an important aspect o f ensuring the proper storage,
   disposal and incinerationof medical waste produced at the health facilities.

vii.    Partnerships

   The first phase o f the program sought to establish a formal relationship with the
   Christian Hospital Association o f Lesotho (CHAL) which provides48% o f the health
   services o f the country especially in the remote mountainous areas. An interim GOL-
    CHAL agreements was signed and phase I1 i s expected to move towards formal
   contract arrangements. These are expected to set precedence for other private public
   agreements to be implemented inphase 11.

4. Scaling up HIVIAIDS interventions

   The HIV/AIDS Capacity Building and Technical Assistance (HCTA) Project became
   effective in the later part o f Phase I(February 2005). The project supports the
   implementation o f the national HIVlAIDS strategies which use Global Fund and
   other resources through strengthening program implementation capacity in the
   Ministry o f Health and Social Welfare, Ministry of Finance and Developmental
   Planning, the National AIDS Secretariat and Civil Society. Initial work has
  commenced in procuring five TA contracts. A new organizational structure .for
   National AIDS Secretariat has been developed. The HIV/AIDS/STI Directorate
   structure in the MOHSW has been approved and various positions are currently filled
   in an acting capacity. In the coming year and throughout Phase I1this program is
   expected to accelerate.

5. Monitoring and evaluationof phase 1

   The monitoring and Evaluation (M & E) Unit i s part o f the Directorate Planning and
   Statistics. It was established with support o f European Union funding. A Health
   Information System was developed to capture health data from all facilities and
   statisticians and data entry clerks were trained in health information. The M&E Unit
   was responsible for tracking the performance of Phase 1. Fourteen milestones were
   achieved and these were discussed in quarterly joint review and annual joint review
   meetings with partners. In between these reviews were held six weekly meetings
   between senior managers o f the MOHSW and partners,

   There were no health information officers yet at district level by the conclusion o f
   phase I.Phase I1 will prioritize decentralization o f data collection, analysis and
   interpretation for local planning and management o f health services.

6. Institutionaland ImplementationArrangements

   The Directorate of Health PIanning and Statistics (DHPS) coordinate the Health
   Sector Reforms. Each director is responsible for the componentts) o f reform under
   hisher area, and forms part o f the senior management team responsible for the
   reforms as a whole. Through the M&E Unit that is housed in the DHPS the program
   is monitored jointly with partners to ensure that objectives are met on time. This is
   achieved by quarterly and annual joint review meetings and through six weekly
   meetings between the senior management of the MOHSW and the partners. The PAU
   manages all financial aspects o f the reform program. The Procurement Unit is
   responsible for procurement o f project goods and services and has since been given
   added responsibility to procure for the entire MOHSW. An Operations Manager
   ensures that the reforms are on track through assisting different program managers
   with tasks related to the reforms.

7. Focus of the Health Sector ReformsPhase I1

   Phase I1o f the Health Sector Reforms i s based on the three year costed sector plan
   (MTEF) of the Ministry o f Health and Social Welfare. This was presented to all
  partners that attended the    51h annual joint review meeting in January 2005 and
   accepted as the document that all partners will buy into. The World Bank proposes to
  commit USD 6.5 million towards implementation o f objectives in the plan and other
  partners havejoined in a sector wide approach (SWAP) to complement this support to
  the plan.

   The focus for phase I1 emphasizes objectives that will lead to implementation at
   district and community levels for sustainable better health outcomes. These have been
  jointly identified from the three year sector planto be:

   7.1 Essential HealthService delivery

   Improving the delivery o f health services at district and community level i s essential
   to reach the reform objectives of improved health outcomes. This will be achieved by
  de-linking the management and funding o f public health programs from hospital
   services. It builds on reforms in phase Ion decentralization and essential health
  package. Establishment o f DHMTs will be supported based on lessons learned from
  the three learning areas. All ten districts will have DHMTs and support to establish
  these and make them functional to implement services at this level will be essential.
   Support will be in the form o f office space, transport, information technology
  equipment, and training in district health systems development. The delivery of
   essential drugs and their rational use will be supported as part of the essential
  package.

   7.2 Human Resources

   Phase I1 will build on the human resource needs assessment and strategic plan
   developed in phase I.The human resource crises facing the sector will be addressed
   in order for quality health and social services to be delivered. Phase I1 will support
  continuing education for health workers, facilitate review and development o f
  curriculum to make trained nurses multi-skilled and assist the MOHSW to develop a
  health worker posting policy where staff skills are matched with service delivery
  needs.

   7.3 Health sector financing, financial management and planning

  Phase I1 will prioritize the development of a health financing policy and provide
   consultancy support to explore the feasibility o f social health insurance schemes as a
  means o f health resources mobilization.

  Building on developments in the first phase, phase I1 will further strengthen the
  financial management system and the medium-term sector expenditure program

  process linked to the overall Government o f Lesotho MTEF. With new infrastructure
   development more resources will be allocated to equipment and infrastructure
   maintenance. In addition human resource to overcome the acute shortage o f
   accounting staff at district level will be considered.

   7.4 Nationalreferralhospital

   The government is committed to replace the present QEIIwith a new facility that will
   adequately serve as the apex specialist hospital for the referral system. Based on
   recommendations in studies done in phase I,the management problems and poor
   quality o f services at the current institution will need to be addressed. The new
   referral system has to be streamlined to play its envisaged role in the reforms.
   Government will explore private public partnership as an option to replace the
   existing hospital andthe service offered there.

8. Monitoringprogress of implementation of PhaseI1

   Institutional and implementation arrangements for Phase I1will be similar as in phase
   I(describedaboveinsection6).TheannualoperationalplanoftheMOHSWwill
   serve as the basis o f implementation o f the reforms. Monitoring the implementation
   o f phase I1will be achieved by trekking a set o f indicators that will be reviewed at the
   annual joint review meetings which will also serve as a platform for assessing the
   rolling three year MTEF and areas o f support for the following financial year. Agreed
   triggers will herald readiness for movingto Phase I11o fthe Health Sector Reforms.



SIGNEDONBEHALF OF
GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO




" W H YT. THAHANE
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT PLANNING




CC PrincipalSecretary, Ministry of Health
    PrincipalSecretary, Ministry of Finance


MAP SECTION


