KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
; , - ' U0    E1176
_I 
NATIONAL HEALTH CARE WASTE
MANAGEMENT PLAN
THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL WELFARE
P... BO .514
MASERU, 100
MARCH 2005



Report Summary Sheet
Client:                                 Client Contact Person(s):
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare   Mr L. Nthunya
P. O. Box 514                           Procurement Manager.
Maseru, 100                             Mr. Mokitimi Thekiso
Lesotho                                 Pollution Control Officer
Title of Report:
NATIONAL HEALTH CARE WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN
Summary:
This report contains the findings of a study conducted by Synergy Holdings (Pty) Ltd as a
consulting company on behalf of The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. The plan has been
developed on the basis of local conditions and very closely following the WHO and World
Bank guidelines.
Keywords:
Health Care Waste Management, Segregation, Storage, Treatment, Disposal, Training and
Awareness
Work Carried out By:     Synergy Holdings (Pty) Ltd
Rev No          Issue Date       Reason for     Compiled By       Reviewed By
Issue
3           March 2005      Client Request,  Dr K. Khalema   The World Bank
per contract     62858484             &
Ms M. Letsie        National
63007767         Workshop



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                            March 2005
Table of Contents
Table of Contents ...............................................1
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS ................................................  3
List of Tables ................................................4
List of Figures ................................................4
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ................................................                5
1.0 Introduction                                  .           .          .          9
1.1 COUNTRY PROFILE.                              .         .                     9
1.2 HEALTH DELIVERY SYSTEM                  .        .        .10
1.3    THE HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROCESS            .      .       .13
1.4    WASTE MANAGEMENT IN LESOTHO              .       .       .15
1.4.1 Solid Waste Management              .        .        .15
1.4.2 Wastewater                  .          .         .16
2.0 Project Description                   .         .         .17
2.1 DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE.                           .        .                  17
2.2    SCOPE OF SERVICEITERMS OF REFERENCES.                .     .              17
2.3 METHODOLOGY                       .         .          .19
2.3.1  Assessment of Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework .19
2.3.2  Assessment of Health Care Waste Generation .19
2.3.3  Determination of Technology and Siting Facility .20
2.3.4 Determination of Disposal Sites .20
2.3.5  Assessment of Private Sector Participation .21
2.3.6  Training and Awareness Building Programme .21
3.0    Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework         .     .     .22
3.1 POLICIES                      .           .          .22
3.1.1 Health and Social Welfare Policy .22
3.1.2 National Environment Policy .23
3.2 NATIONAL LEGISLATION                  .         .        .23
3.2.1 Constitution of Lesotho .23
3.2.2 Public health Order 1970 .24
3.2.3 Environment Act 2001 .24
3.2.4 Urban Govemment Act 1983 .25
3.2.5  Sanitary Services and Refuse Removal Regulations 192 .25
3.2.6  Labour Code (Chemical Safety) Regulations 2003 .26
3.3 INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS                 .       .        .26
3.4 NATIONAL PERMITS                    .         .         .27
3.5    INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORKS AND ADMINISTRATIVE ISSUES    .    .   .28
3.5.1 Govemment Health Facilities .28
3.5.2  Christian Health Association of Lesotho (CHAL) .29
3.5.3 Private Surgeries .29
4.0     Baseline Data/Current Situation           .       .       .32
4.1 WASTE QUANTITIES                    .         .         .32
4.2 SEGREGATION AND STORAGE                  .        .       .34
4.3 TREATMENTS AND DISPOSAL                  .       .        .35
4.3.1 Hospitals .35
4.3.2  Clinics and Surgeries in Peri-urban Areas .35
1



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                  March 2005
4.3.4  Clinics in Rural Areas .........................             36
4.4 DISPOSAL SITES               .        .        .36
4.5 LEVEL OF AWARENESS              .       .       .37
4.6   CURRENT OPERATIONAL CONSTRAINTS       .     .     .37
4.7 COMMUNITIES RESPONSE             .       .       .38
5.0   Assessment of Health Care Waste (Management in Lesotho)  . .39
5.1 HEALTH CARE WASTE HIERARCHY           .     .      .39
5.2   THE QUEEN ELIZABETH 11 HOSPITAL     .      .     .39
5.3   RISK ASSESSMENTS AND ANALYSIS       .      .     .45
6.0   Determination of Technology      ..47
6.1   HANDLING, STORAGE AND COLLECTION      .     .     .47
6.2 TREATMENT .............. 48
6.3 INCINERATION                          .        .         .         49
6.5 OTHER TECHNICAL ISSUES:           .       .      .52
7.0   Determination of Disposal Sites   ..54
7.1   NATIONAL OFFICIAL DUMP SITES       .      .      .56
7.2 HEALTHCARE WASTE WATER             .       .      .59
8.0   Private Sector Participation   ..62
8.1   PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP OPTIONS FOR LESOTHO  . .   .63
8.2 COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS            .       .       .66
9.0   Training Needs and Awareness Assessment and Programs  . .67
9.1 HEALTH CENTERS                .        .       .67
9.1.1  Health Center Management ....................... 67
9.1.2  Medical Staff .......................                        67
9.1.3  Waste handlers .......................                       68
9.2   COMMUNITIES ...............................                     73
9.3 INSTITUTIONS AND AGENCIES          .      .       .74
10.0  Summary of HCWM Plan for Lesotho .............. ..  ................... 75
10.1  PRECONDITIONS AND RESERVATIONS       .     .      .75
10.2  SEGREGATION AND HANDLING ........................... 75
10.3  COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL .......................... 76
10.3.1  All areas .....................                             76
10.3.2  Urban Areas .....................                           77
10.3.4  Peri-Urban Areas ..................... 77
10.3.5  Rural Areas ..................... 78
11.0 Monitoring Plan          ..86
12.0  Evaluation of Financing Possibilities ........... .. ................ 89
13.0  Conclusions and Recommendations      ..90
REFERENCES AND BIBLIOGRAPHY              .       .      .   ......................... 92
ANNEXA ..............................                                   93
ANNEX B .............................. 94
ANNEX C: .............................. 97
ANNEX D ..............................                                  104
ANNEX E ..............................                                  106
Annex F ..............................                                  116
LIST OF STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTED            .      .     .......................... 117
2



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                           March 2005
List of Acronyms and Abbreviations
APC                                Air Pollution Control
CBD                                Central Business District
CHEMAC                             Chemicals Management Committee
CHW                                Community Health Worker
COWMAN                             Committee on Waste Management
DHP                                District Health Package
EHI                                Essential Health Package
EIA                                Environment Impact Assessment
EIS                                 Environmental Impact Statement
ENT                                Ear, Nose and Through
LEA                                Lesotho Environment Authority
HCW                                Health Care Waste
HCWM                               Health Care Waste Management
HIV/AIDS                           Human Immune Virus/ Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome
HSA                                Health Service Area
LSPP                               Lands Survey and Physical Planning
MCC                                Maseru City Council
MoFDP                              Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
MoHSW                              Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
MoLG                               Ministry of Local Government
NEC                                National Environment Council
NES                                National Environment Secretariat
NHTC                               National Health Training College
OPD                                Out-Patients Department
OSH                                Department of Occupational Safety and Health
PRSP                               Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
TB                                 Tuberculosis
WASA                               Water and Sewage Authority
3



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
List of Tables
Table 1     Summary of services offered by type of health facility and type of waste expected
Table 2     Waste categories.
Table 3     Licenses and permits required for construction and operation of Healthcare and
waste Management Facilities.
Table 4     The results of weighing different categories of HCW  at Queen Elizabeth II Hospital.
Table 5     Healthcare waste generated by major facilities in Lesotho.
Table 6     Roles and Responsibilities of various actors in Waste Management.
Table 7     Training for Health facilities.
Table 8     Methods to be used to raise awareness to different target groups.
Table 9     Institutions to be trained for participation in Medical waste Management.
Table 10    Examples of typical items in separate waste containers.
Table 11    Summary of Waste Management Plan.
Table 12    Monitoring Plan for implementation of HCWM Plan.
List of Figures
Figure 1      Mixed waste in a bin at Thamae Municipality clinic.
Figure 2      A small capacity incinerators at Mabote Filter Clinic.
Figure 3      Disposal of Sharps at one of the hospitals located in the Highlands.
Figure 4      General waste dumped at Queen Elizabeth II Hospital premises.
Figure 5      the incinerator at Queen Elizabeth II Hospital; the largest hospital in Maseru.
Figure 6      Waste dumping site at Thaba-Tseka.
Figure 7      Emissions from the uncontrolled burning of all types of waste at Tsosane dump
site in Maseru.
Box 1         Training of waste handlers; points to be emphasized.
Box 2         Step-by-step approach for medical departments.
4



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
Executive Summary
Lesotho is a small country with a population of just above 2.1 million. About 75% of the country is
mountainous or foothills, with 80% of the population living in rural areas. Because of this terrain,
population distribution is sparse and a great proportion of the country is not easily accessible.
The country is demarcated into ten administrative districts, each with a center town that can be
regarded as the urban center. There are further 11 peri-urban centers. There are four recognizable
ecological zones, namely; Lowlands, Foothills, Mountains and Senqu valley. The zones differ in
terms of topography, altitude, climate, the number of people and population concentration. Three
quarters of the population is distributed in the mountains and the other three zones share the
remaining one-quarter. The Lowlands have gained a good share of the population through rural-
urban migration while the other zones have lost that share. The population density on arable land
is estimated at 531 people per square kilometer, a better indication of the real density in urban
areas.
The annual population growth rate has declined slightly from 2.29% in 1966 to 2.10% in 2000. The
current growth rate indicates that the country population will double in 33 years. 43% of the
population is under 15 years of age and the life expectancy is 45.1 years for males and 54.1 years
for females. The proportion of females to males is about equal and women in reproductive age
constitute 24% of the national population. The total dependency rate is about 47%.
Falling under the category of "Least Developed Countries"(LDC), Lesotho is currently faced with
deeper development challenges than was the case at the time of independence. The basic
challenge is the fundamental need to provide a sustainable basis for a better quality of life for
Basotho. Despite the intensified focus on poverty reduction, the proportion of Basotho households
living below the poverty line is estimated at 50 percent of the total population. The majority of this
population does not have adequate access to basic human needs and about 40 percent of the
labour force is still seeking gainful employment. Preliminary estimates have indicated that, in order
to make a significant impact on unemployment figures, approximately 40 000 new jobs have to be
created annually for a sustained period.
The government's response to the negative economic developments lies in the formulation of a
series of initiatives to correct the growing macroeconomic imbalances and lay the foundation for
renewed economic growth. These include;
* Accelerated divestiture of state-owned enterprises
*  Improvement in the domestic financial intervention
*  Increased diversification of the revenue base and
*  Containing of government expenditure through public sector reforms
Lesotho's Health delivery System can be described as a tripartite arrangement. There are
govemment owned Hospitals and Clinics on one corner of the triangle, with Church owned
5



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                         March 2005
Hospitals and clinics on another corner and the triangle completed by privately owned clinics and
practitioners.
The government of Lesotho is further partnered with Non-governmental Organizations and United
Nations (UN) agencies in the delivery of health services, especially in funding and delivering other
social welfare activities.
The catchment areas for existing hospitals divide the Administrative structure of the Health system
as the Health Service Areas (HSA), making a total of 19 HSA within the 10 national districts. The
total number of Health Facilities in the country is estimated at 208 and the number is decreasing
due to lack of capital to operate. This figure includes Hospitals and Clinics, called Health Centers
(H/C), Village Health Posts, Maternity Homes and Out-reach stations and private clinics. It does not
however cover private practitioners.
The Health Service Area is characterized by one Referral hospital and several Health centers.
Typical Population served per Health Service Area ranges from 41292 in Semonkong HAS, the
smallest, to 310442 in Queen Elizabeth II HSA, which is the largest.
According to the Health statistics, the two Prevalent Diseases causing institutional deaths are HIV-
AIDS and TB. There are reports that Hepatitis has been increasing since the advent of HIV-AIDS
Since independence, various policies were introduced by successive governments to improve the
state of health of the people of Lesotho. The policies have had varying degrees of success.
Improvements that were seen over time started to show erosion in the last 15 years, mainly due to
economic decline, political instability, unhealthy lifestyles and AIDS.
The Review of this process highlights several achievements and drawbacks. An improvement in
HCWM has not been part of this process until now.
The Health sector is financed through Government tax revenue, grants from donors and loans.
User fees are the only other source of financing. The user fees contribute minimally to financing
Health care. This is because the cost recovery is still very low at about 7.4% and the money so
collected is reverted to the Ministry of Finance.
The observations in most health centers show that:
HCWM is not assigned any specific authority
Segregation of HCW is not observed by the medical staff
Staff engaged in HCW handling is not provided with appropriate protective equipment
All staff is not trained in HCWM
HCW is not accorded effective treatment
There is rampant theft of plastic bucket type medical bins
Hospital grounds are not maintained in a manner deserving of a health care institution
6



Health Care Waste Manaaement Plan                                        March 2005
* There is general poor maintenance of equipment from the incinerator to the sewerage
network
Lesotho's economy is still low to sustain a full-fledged waste management expenses. Due to
unemployment and general poverty, people cannot afford to fund waste management. The
successful implementation of HCWM shall require a more efficient economy.
Institutional collaboration is very poor among government ministries and departments, as such
crosscutting programs like waste management, which are heavy on individual authority in charge
are not fully functional. Collaboration should be improved and roles clearly defined down to
financial responsibilities.
Communication channels and responsibilities are often neglected as a result of unclear roles
(undefined) and the general attitude of hoarding program by the management in public service, in
general. All programs within the sector should be publicized in the sector newsletter so that
information reaches everybody and the public knows their roles.
Healthcare Waste Management is relatively poor in Lesotho and does not seem to receive any
attention as a serious infection prevention program.
There is no legislation that governs HCW directly, except for the new Environment Act, which
encompasses it in hazardous waste. Regulations and guidelines are non-existent.
Generally, the National Waste Management is inadequate to address the requirements of
environmentally sound disposal of HCW.
Little support, especially in terms of resources to the healthcare workers has led to low morality
and demotivation among workers at all levels.
Misadministration, such as late payments to non-payment of bills has crippled many operations of
the healthcare system and still remains a serious threat to smooth operation.
Investment in HCW management should be regarded a national issue, not health sector issue.
Hence collaboration between the major role players namely; MoHSW, MoLG, MTEC, and MoFDP
must be strengthened with a view of harmonizing responsibilities and priorities.
It is further recommended that;
-  MoHSW, MoLG, and MTEC share the funding of the capital costs of this plan, preferably at
the ratio of 2:2:1 respectively. Other related operational costs can be funded within the
recurrent budgets of individual ministries. The budget for these three ministries need to be
thoroughly reviewed whereas budget lines pertaining to HCWM will be established.
-  For purposes of accountability, the department of Environmental health should be
assigned the responsibility of ensuring that all healthcare facilities implement  the
proposed HCWM plan. And for support to this department, the two committees - National
HCWM Committee and HSA HCWM Committees - have to be established.
7



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
-  The approved plan, through the national HCWM committee and HSA HCWM Committee
should be made available and disseminated to all units of HHC facilities, including
practices.
-  Regulations on Hazardous waste and technical guidelines should be developed to address
day-to-day operational issues.
-  A system for evaluation, licensing and monitoring of private sector participation in
hazardous waste management should be developed to enable considerable participation
of private sector.
8



Health Care Waste Manaqiement Plan                                       March 2005
1.0    Introduction
1.1    Country profile
Lesotho is a small country with a population of just above 2.1 million. About 75% of the country is
mountainous or foothills, with 80% of the population living in rural areas. Because of this terrain,
population distribution is sparse and a great proportion of the country is not easily accessible.
The country is demarcated into ten administrative districts, each with a center town that can be
regarded as the urban center. There are further 11 peri-urban centers. There are four recognizable
ecological zones, namely, Lowlands, foothills, Mountains and Senqu valley. The zones differ in
terms of topography, altitude, climate, the number of people and population concentration. Three
quarters of the population is distributed in the mountains and the other three zones share the
remaining one-quarter. The Lowlands have gained a good share of the population through rural-
urban migration while the other zones have lost that share. The population density on arable land
is estimated at 531 people per square kilometer, a better indication of the real density in urban
areas.
The annual population growth rate has declined slightly from 2.29% in 1966 to 2.10% in 2000. The
current growth rate indicates that the country population will double in 33 years. 43% of the
population is under 15 years of age and the life expectancy is 45.1 years for males and 54.1 years
for females. The proportion of females to males is about equal and women in reproductive age
constitute 24% of the national population. The total dependency rate is about 47%.
Falling under the category of "Least Developed Countries"(LDC), Lesotho is currently faced with
deeper development challenges than was the case at the time of independence. The basic
challenge is the fundamental need to provide a sustainable basis for a better quality of life for
Basotho. Despite the intensified focus on poverty reduction, the proportion of Basotho households
living below the poverty line is estimated at 50 percent of the total population. The majority of this
population does not have adequate access to basic human needs and about 40 percent of the
labour force is still seeking gainful employment. Preliminary estimates have indicated that, in order
to make a significant impact on unemployment figures, approximately 40 000 new jobs have to be
created annually for a sustained period.
Development strategies implemented by the government, involving the five-year or three year
rolling plans have previously articulated policy direction for socio-economic development. Such
multi-pronged policies have not been able to achieve primary objective of improving the livelihoods
of the people. Economic growth has been erratic and performance has been marked by highly
unsustainable short-term successes.
Lesotho's national income is derived from both domestic activity and migrant labour remittances.
The country's economy has traditionally been based on subsistence agriculture and animal
husbandry, as well as small-scale industries that include clothing, footwear, textiles, food
processing and construction. The small but expanding manufacturing base depends largely on
farm products to support the milling and canning industries.
9



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
Economic sectors such as manufacturing and telecommunications are beginning to show good
signs of growth, but much needs to be built on this progress. Lesotho's major natural resource is
human and water. The Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP) is seeing the sale of water to
neighbouring South Africa and an establishment of a hydropower facility. This is generating
royalties that are an important source of income for the country.  Along with other developing
countries, Lesotho faces a number of risks and threats to its political and socio-economic
development. Through a new national vision, such weaknesses and issues are being isolated and
efforts being made to turn them into national capacity.
The government's response to the negative economic developments lies in the formulation of a
series of initiatives to correct the growing macroeconomic imbalances and lay the foundation for
renewed economic growth. These include;
* Accelerated divestiture of state-owned enterprises
*  Improvement in the domestic financial intervention
*  Increased diversification of the revenue base and
*  Containing of government expenditure through public sector reforms
The national budget for the financial year 2003/04 stood at M 3.0 billion, where the Health sector
drew M 261.0 millions, 8.7%. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) stands at 1 billion maloti. A look
at the sector budget shows no budget line for HCWM. This falls within normal operational costs,
where as it is regarded as a simple cleaning procedure.
1.2    Health Delivery System
Lesotho's Health delivery System can be described as a tripartite arrangement. There are
government owned Hospitals and Clinics on one corner of the triangle, with Church owned
Hospitals and clinics, coordinated by the Christian Health Association of Lesotho (CHAL) on
another comer and the triangle completed by privately owned clinics and practitioners.
The government of Lesotho is further partnered with Non-governmental Organizations and United
Nations (UN) agencies in the delivery of health services, especially in funding and delivering other
social welfare activities.
The catchments areas for existing hospitals divide the Administrative structure of the Health
system as the Health Service Areas (HSA), making a total of 19 HSA within the 10 national
districts. The total number of Health Facilities in the country is estimated at 208 and the number is
decreasing due to lack of capital to operate. This figure includes Hospitals and Clinics, called
Health Centers (H/C), (includes Village Health Posts, Maternity Homes and Out-reach stations)
and private clinics. It does not however cover individual private practitioners.
10



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                             March 2005
The Health Service Area is characterized by one Referral hospital and several Health centers, and
The Ministry of health is the overall overseer of health issues in the country. The structure of the
sector is indicated in organogram in Annex B.
The services offered at these different Health facilities are indicated in Tablel. Following the WHO
classification of Health Care Waste(table2) possible generation of each category of waste is
indicated in the same table.
11



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
Table 1: Summary of Services offered by type of health facilit and type of waste expected:
Health Care Facility      Out         Ante/post     O & G       Emergency      In Patient  Under 5     Surgical    Waste
Patient     natal                                                                        Category
Hospitals                                                                                                             1 to 9
Filter Clinics                 i                                                                                      1 to 9
Clinics/HC                                                                                                            1 to 4
Village Health Posts                   _     _                                                 i                      1 &3
Outreach stations                           No formal physical structure. This used for community outreach programmes
Private practitioners
Table 2: Waste Categories
Waste Category-description                                 Examples
1'.1nfectious waste - Waste suspected to contain pathogens  Laboratory cultures, waste from isolation wards, tissues, swabs, materials or
equipment that have been in contact with infected patients, excreta
2.Pathological waste - Human tissues or fluids             Body parts, blood and other body fluids.
3.Sharp waste -                                            Needles, infusion sets, scalpels, knives, saws, blades, broken glass, and nails
4.Pharmaceutical waste - Waste containing pharmaceuticals  Pharmaceuticals that are expired or no longer used or needed, items
contaminated by or containing pharmaceuticals (bottles, boxes)
5.Genotoxic waste - Waste containing substances with Genotoxic  Waste containing cytostatic properties (used in cancer therapy),
properties                                                 genotoxic chemicals
6.Chemical waste - Waste containing chemical substances    Laboratory reagents, film developer,
Disinfectants that have expired or are no longer needed, solvents
7.Heavy metals - Waste with high content of heavy metals   Batteries, broken thermometers, blood pressure gauges, etc.
8.Pressurized containers                                   Gas cylinders, gas cartridges, aerosol cans
9.Radioactive waste - Waste containing radioactive substances  Unused liquids from radiotherapy or laboratory research, contaminated
glassware, packages or absorbent paper, urine and excreta from patients
L                                           | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~treated with unsealed radio nuclides, sealed sources
12



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
Typical Populations served per Health Service Area ranges from 41292 in Semonkong HAS, the
smallest, to 310442 in Queen Elizabeth II HAS, which is the largest.
According to the Health statistics, the Top ten Prevalent Diseases causing institutional deaths are:
* HIV-AIDS
* TB
* Pneumonia
* Diarrhea and gastroenteritis
* Diabetes mellitus
* Meningitis
* Heart failure (including CCF)
. Stroke
* Dehydration
* Upper Respiratory Tract infections (URTI)/Asthma
There are reports that Hepatitis has been increasing since the advent of HIV-AIDS.
Health Sector is probably the only sector that has established a training institution within its
establishment to cater for most medical training needs of the sector, with exception of doctors.
Initiatives in improving the health delivery system are discussed below.
1.3    The Health Sector Reform Process
Since independence, various policies were introduced by successive govemments to improve the
state of health of the people of Lesotho. The policies have had varying degrees of success.
Improvements that were seen over time started to show erosion in the last 15 years, mainly due to
economic decline, political instability, unhealthy lifestyles and AIDS.
In 1979, the health Sector adopted a Primary Health Care (PHC) as the strategy for health
service provision. The cardinal feature of PHC was to bring services nearer to the people with their
participation. A multi-sectoral approach to health service provision was also instituted in
recognition of the fact that improvements in health status are not the sole responsibility of the
health sector.
The concept of HSA was introduced to ease over-centralized administration and health care
provision. The country was divided into 18 HSAs based on catchments areas of existing hospitals.
Community participation would be ensured through District Management Teams, HSA
Management teams and Health Center Committees. A hospital in the HAS would form the highest
level of referral, being responsible for the supervision of all health centers within its catchments
boundaries.
An additional cadre in the health care service was created. The nurse Clinician was meant to
address scarcity of doctors and offer improved capacity to the nursing cadre. The nurse clinician
was expected to carry out medical functions of diagnosis, prescription as well as usual nursing and
midwifery functions.
13



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                        March 2005
The District Management Improvement (DMI) project was introduced to improve the
management capacity of MOHSW, particularly the HSA management. This came with the
Community Health Worker programme that saw 6000 CHWs trained, the Rural Health Service
project, which rehabilitated the physical infrastructure of the Health centers, augmented by Rural
Health Maintenance Project. Population Health and Nutrition (PHN) project was also run, under
which filter clinics were constructed. It is noteworthy that these projects targeted only government
facilities.
The Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) and that of Control of Diarrhoeal Disease
(CDD) were instituted and became highly instrumental in reducing child mortality rate.
Programmes on TB control, reproductive Health, Sexual Health and Family Planning, Mental
health, Environmental, Sanitation and Sexually Transmitted Diseases took great strides and made
modest gains. However sustainability of these gains is seen as one of the major challenges still
facing the sector.
The past two decades have not only realized some gains in aspects of health service in Lesotho,
but have also shown erosion of some of those gains. Among the reasons identified for this negative
trend are:
* Lack of a comprehensive and clear policy framework
* Lack of appropriate management and planning expertise
. Insufficient resources together with inefficient allocation and management of these
resources (financial and human)
* The existence of dual system (CHAL & GOL) resulted in a fragmented and uncoordinated
delivery of health services
The advent of HIV-AIDS pandemic, together with resurgence of TB
* The persistently high population growth rate.
In an attempt to address some of these issues, The National Health and Social Welfare Policy was
work-shopped in 1993, The national Health sector Plan in 1995 and the Round Table Conference
held in 1995, followed by institution of the Health Sector Reform process.
The reform programme will be implemented over a period of ten years, starting in 2000. Phase I,
the first three years are focused primarily on capacity building in order for the Ministry to institute
the necessary changes. The overall programme is thus aimed at improving both the Technical and
Administrative aspects of health services. Within the technical aspects, notably are district Health
Package(DHP), Infrastructure, Pharmaceuticals and Social welfare, while in administration, Human
resource, Finances, decentralization and donor coordination and Partnership are the key issues.
The Review of this process highlights several achievements and drawbacks. An improvement in
HCWM has not been part of this process until now.
The Health sector is financed through Government tax revenue, grants from donors and loans.
User fees are the only other source of financing, which, however contributes minimally to financing
Health care. This is because the cost recovery is sfll very low at about 7.4% and the money so
collected is reverted to the Ministry of Finance. The reasons for this recovery rate are the same for
14



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
all other negative trends as indicated above. The Health Sector Reform programme review paper
however indicates that in successive years there are under expenditures, particularly in capital
budget. The 2002/03 saw an overall under expenditure of M15.6million. Actual expenditure for
2002/03 financial year totaled M26.3miillions against M61.9miillion budget, only 42%. The major
draw back can only be directed at poor leadership and management of the sector.
1.4    Waste Management in Lesotho
1.4.1 Solid Waste Management
Currently the ministry that is mandated for management of waste in Lesotho is the Ministry of Local
Government, through the services of the Council in Maseru (Maseru City Council) and the Town
Clerks in other towns. Their main duty in this regard is to remove collected waste from residential
areas, commercial areas, industrial areas and health centers. Since these institutions exist in towns
only, these services are not available to villages outside the demarcations of urban areas. It should
also be noted that these institutions do not provide treatment facilities for waste, they only provide
services of removal and disposal for which each household, business industry and health center
served has to pay for.
The legal mandate that govern and support this service comprises of Local Government Act 1997,
Urban Government Act 1983, Sanitary Services and Refuse Removal Regulations 1972,
Environment Act 2001 (yet to be fully functional) and Public Health Order 1970.
There is no town in Lesotho with a sanitary landfill. There are only official disposal sites, which
have been selected by the council and the town clerks and most of which are inappropriately
located. All the urban waste, including medical waste, is dumped and burned in these sites without
any form of cover afterwards. Apart from that, most of the disposal sites are unprotected - only
two are fenced (Butha-Buthe and Maseru)- and this poses high risks of scavenging by the nearby
communities.
In the capital city, Maseru, the city council bearing the responsibility of solid waste collection and
disposal, do so in selected residential areas based on the old reserve demarcation, in commercial
areas which include offices and retailers. They also collect in Institutions namely schools, prisons
and Queen Elizabeth II hospital and banks, and then in the industrial areas. The frequency of
collection varies from daily at industries and commercial areas to weekly at all other areas.
Maseru City Council offers special load service to areas not covered by regular service and to
industrial sector that seem to have a higher generation rate. This service is the one used during
cleaning campaigns. The arrangement with the hospital, which is regarded a special case is that
they have recommended two skips on site and the hospital draws orders for payment of the skips.
A skip is about M600.00 (six hundred maluti) a month.
The city council is plagued with a number of operational problems. These range from frequent
breakdowns of the only four trucks that they have and two tractors. One other truck belonging to
the works department has to be regularly engaged and often-small vans are used to supplement
collection services. Another crucial problem is low labour force. The city is forced to operate with
only 5 to 6 runners (refuse collectors) per truck. This number is said to be very  low, and the
15



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
optimum one is expected to be at least 10. Once in that group of 6, two are not at work for various
reasons, work stops. A further problem is that of lack of storage facilities like bins and skips. Often
litter is found lying around the small existing container and in other places simply dumped in some
location. This leads to delays in collection and thus inefficiency.
1.4.2 Wastewater
The institution that is mandated to manage wastewater is Water and Sewage Authority (WASA).
WASA has oxidation ponds in most towns and peri-urban areas, which in most situations are
connected to hospitals by a sewer line. Some have been constructed by the hospital and WASA
inherited them. WASA used to run a sewage collection service with tankers, collecting on request
in all other areas where septic tanks are built. The oxidation pond were meant and designed to
handle domestic-like waste with minimal organic matter loading, and low chemical load. Therefore
any effluent with chemical and organic loading higher than the set standards (see Annex C) needs
to be pretreated before it can be directed into WASA sewer pipelines. So far there are no pre-
treatment facilities; these have to be erected by individual generators of wastewater.
16



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
2.0    Project Description
2.1    Development Objective
The main objective of the study is to identify the level of Health Care Waste Management that will
be relevant to help implement and enforce proper health environmentally sound, technically
feasible, economically viable and socially acceptable systems for management of Health Care
Waste in Lesotho.
2.2    Scope of Service/Terms of references
To achieve this objective, the terms of reference that were laid out for the consultant were divided
into the following tasks:
TASK I
Assess the Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework as well as the Regulatory Framework on
Health Care Waste Management (HCWM) and treatmenUdestruction facility in the country
including air emission standards which are currently required by law and which are likely be
required in the next ten years.
Identify permits requirements, including environmental, building, and other permits and procedures
that Health Care Waste (HWC) treatmentdestruction facilities would need to address.
Outline any public participation or public hearing requirements and procedures. For each
requirement, list the lead agency to be contacted.
Assess the typical time demands for proposed facilities to obtain permits and address
environmental impact requirements and public participation requirements.
Assess the health care waste generation at the hospital(s) or health centers to be determined by
the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MoHSW). The details should include the minimum
weight of total health care waste generated at each health care facility per week. Composition of
the waste should be determined through segregation at the waste end point. Extrapolate the
results to cover the entire country.
Assess the level of scavenging, if any, or recycling taking place inside health care facilities, along
transportation routes, and at final disposal sites. Determine social issues in relation to scavenging
taking place.
Review and analyze existing health care waste storage, collection, and disposal systems with due
regard to level of separation. Determine the frequency of collection and environmental and health
impacts for existing treatment.
17



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                            March 2005
TASK 11
Determination of Technology and Sifting Facility
For the types and quantities of HCW generated in the study area, assess alternative technologies
and facility sizes for treatment and destruction. The assessment shall compare the alternatives on
the basis of capital cost, operating cost, ease of operation, local availability of spare parts, local
availability of operational skills, demonstrated reliability, durability, and environmental impact. On
the basis of this assessment, recommend a process flow for economic and environmentally sound
treatment and final disposal of HCW leading to selection of appropriate technology. The
government and/or facility should make the final decision on choice.
Determination of Disposal Sites
If site for disposal exists, collect all existing plans for suitable sites to be considered for the
locations of the treatment facilities and review general transport and traffic systems relative to
appropriate sites. Consider:
a) Accessibility to the site
b) Distance from the health care facilities to the site
c) Distance to sensitive areas
d) Future development plans of the area
e) Possibility to acquire the area
f) Cultural and historical sites,
g) Public opinion and
h) Noise and dust impact to nearby areas
Public consultation/hearing will be held as part of the final assessment for sitting of the treatment
facility.
Analysis of site
Analyze the above information to determine whether there is sufficient appropriate material on site
for daily and final cover, whether the site soil, hydrological and geo-hydrological conditions would
ensure adequate protection of any ground and surface water used for drinking and/or irrigation. If
the sites prove to be unsuitable, inform the client stating the reasons.
Financing
The Central Government or Local government, potential with municipal or other solid waste
treatment and disposal activities where these exist, will finance this process. An alternative
approach is for the private sector to provide the health care waste treatment and disposal activities
or waste transport within districts.
Assess private sector participation as service provider.
Assess public-private partnership and cost recovery at national and district level, based on the
polluter pays principle, where each health care facility pays according to the volume generated.
18



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
TASK III
Review existing training and public awareness programs on health care waste management at
hospitals and other health care establishments and prepare training needs assessment.
Working in conjunction with the relevant government institutions and the municipality prepare a
costed training programme and a well targeted Awareness Building Campaign Programme
including the general public, and more specifically health care workers, dump site managers,
municipal workers, incinerator operators (if that is the choice of technology), nurses,
scavengers/pickers, families and street children. The design of the material required for the
awareness building programmes should be discussed with the relevant authorities and the general
public to ensure that their concerns that are deemed appropriate are incorporated in the design of
the programme, sitting layouts, mitigation measures and community communication programmes.
The Training and Awareness building programme and the management Programme shall be
appropriately costed and the plan shall be presented in a national Workshop.
TASK IV
Revise the draft report in accordance with the comments of the World Bank, the Government and
other interested parties and submit the Final Report incorporating all changes and modifications
required to the Project Task Team.
2.3    Methodology
2.3.1  Assessment of Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
All stakeholders relevant to waste management in general were consulted to inquire about their
role in this aspect as well as the policies and legal mandates that support their involvement. All the
documents prescribed were collected and reviewed.
2.3.2  Assessment of Health Care Waste Generation
This exercise was done in two parts, which are as follows:
-  Assessment of current practices of waste management at different health centers. This
exercise investigated how medical waste is managed from generation point up until its
disposal point. The issues that were investigated are; types of waste generated; the extend
of segregation; storage; treatment methods used; disposal methods used; the personnel
handling it at all these points; their level of knowledge and skills on how to handle medical
waste as well as the equipment and protective clothing used to handle this waste.
A questionnaire was designed and was used in all the health centers that were visited. And
the centers visited were hospitals, clinics, and private surgeries. Their selection was based
on representation of four different ecological zones of Lesotho, namely the Highlands,
Lowlands, Foothills and Senqu River Valley as well as representation of rural areas and
19



Health Care Waste Manaaement Plan                                        March 2005
urban areas. The information was not sourced by use of the questionnaire only, but also
through observation on how waste is handled from point of generation to point of disposal.
-   Determination of Quantities of Medical Waste Generated. This exercise was carried out at
Queen Elizabeth 11 Hospital in Maseru, where  the waste from different sections of the
hospital was segregated and weighed as a way of determining its quantity. The data found
from this exercise was extrapolated to the rest of the health centers in the country
according to types of waste generated and capacity of service provision at those centers.
This was further compared with the estimated generation rate used in Dioxins and Furans
inventory report of the Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) project.
2.3.3  Determination of Technology and Siting Facility
The determination of Technology was essentially a desktop study. A consideration was first made
with regard to the processes required at every stage of waste management, and the technology
options thereof. From containers at generation point, through internal transportation, protective
equipment, treatment, storage and disposal, comparison was made on the basis of:
* Effectiveness and environmental performance
* Capital and operation costs
* Ease of operation
* Availability of spare parts/maintenance capacity
* General acceptability of the technology
2.3.4  Determination of Disposal Sites
The discussion centers on existing dumping sites for localities around the health centers and
towns. This is derived from observations during visits before and during this work. The analysis
here of is then based on:
Exposure risk to public (scavenging and emissions)
Potential environmental pollution (air, water, and land)
Hydro geological analysis was not performed on account of time frame. The real constraint
became lack of consensus between Health, Environment and Local Government as to which sites
have been earmarked as most suitable. There is however agreement among these role players
that the existing dump sites are not suitable. The fore going analysis in his work used the NES
guidelines or criteria for choice of a suitable dumpsite attached as annex B. This highlights the
following points:
*  Accessibility to the site
*  Distance from the health care facilities to the site
*  Distance to sensitive areas
*  Future development plans of the area
*  Possibility to acquire the area
*  Cultural and historical sites,
20



Health Care Waste ManaQement Plan                                        March 2005
It should be noted that the final choice of site will only be undertaken where there has been
consensus among local authorities regarding the best option. It is the consultants' understanding
that the exercise is being spearheaded by COWMAN.
2.3.5  Assessment of Private Sector Participation
On top of the views and opinions of authorities regarding private sector participation, an analysis
was made based on experiences of other countries. A basis for engaging private sector is laid
down by national development goals and improvement of efficiency of services.
Within this analysis, the three principles are engaged, namely Polluter Pays Principle, Best
Practices and Cost Recovery.
2.3.6 Training and Awareness Building Programme
As mentioned in section 2.3.3 above, a questionnaire was designed to source information from
health centers, and this questionnaire had a part that investigated training needs for the personnel
of the health centers. The training needs were assessed from management level of the health
centers to the lower level personnel (e.g. cleaners, labourers). The questionnaire also investigated
the best methods to be used for training and dissemination of information to health centers.
Another questionnaire was designed for use when consulting with communities. This questionnaire
was addressed the following issues: Whether communities get in contact with medical waste; level
of scavenging; how are they affected by the waste; their level of awareness on risks associated
with this kind of waste as well as best methods to use for dissemination of information to them.
21



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
3.0    Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
There are legal instruments in Lesotho that cover waste management and pollution control but they
are not specific on management of medical waste. However the national policies and legal
instruments that have to be taken into consideration in management of medical waste
management are discussed below.
3.1    Policies
3.1.1  Health and Social Welfare Policy
This policy encompasses the subject of waste management in general and does not pin-point on
medical waste. According to this policy, the priority setting for the Ministry of health and Social
Welfare is based on the fact that the country's disease burden overwhelms the available resources;
therefore the available limited resources will be used as prudently as possible to have the largest
possible impact on disease burden. To achieve this, two ways will be followed: firstly, the target will
be on health problems and diseases with the heaviest burden; and secondly only health care and
social interventions with proven cost effectiveness will be used.
As a result, the District Health Package (DHP) has been developed based on the Essential Health
Package (EHP) concept. DHP consists of selected health interventions that address priority health
and health related problems that result in substantial health gains at low cost that can be funded by
the Government and will cover the whole country. One of the constituents of DHP is Essential
Public Health Interventions, which include among others the following:
-  Health Education and Promotion: The Government will run a campaign to change peoples'
risky and unhealthy lifestyles.
-  Environmental Health: Government will promote environmental health by ensuring safe
water and sanitation, vector control, occupational health and safety, waste disposal, food
hygiene and port health.
Apart from that, the Health service stipulated by the policy is Environmental Health Services with
the aim to address all potential and actual threats to human health and welfare. The Policy
Objective is "to influence environmental conditions that will enhance health and social welfare" and
the Policy Measures are:
a) Equitable access to resources and the satisfaction of people's basic needs are
fundamental to the concept of sustainable development
b) Environmental health interventions will involve education, promotion, advisory functions,
inspection, monitoring and setting of standards
c) A multidisciplinary approach will be promoted to secure collaboration between different
sectors
d) Review of different areas of legislation that impact on environmental health.
22



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
The policy may adequately cover the aspect of waste management within the broad environmental
policy. What remain to be seen are the instruments of concretization of the policy, the weakest
point in Lesotho's public administration.
3.1.2  National Environment Policy
The National Environment Policy of Lesotho was developed by the National Environment
Secretariat to address a broad range of environmental problems. Among other objectives that this
policy has, there are those relevant to medical waste and these are for:
Toxic and Hazardous Substances: The objective is to regulate introduction, manufacture, import,
sale, transportation, use, distribution and disposal of toxic, hazardous and radioactive substances
in Lesotho. Management of these substances is to be guided by international conventions like
Basel convention, Montreal Protocol, Bamako convention and others. The strategies to achieve
this include: maintaining a data register of these substances; setting up the standards against their
transboundary movement; and using environmentally safe and technologically sound techniques
for their disposal.
Sanitation and Waste Management: The objective is to ensure that there are guidelines for the
proper handling and disposal of waste in order to reduce pollution and the spread of disease. The
strategies to achieve this objective include: the design of environmentally friendly waste disposal
and treatment systems; establishment of standards; and establishment of monitoring programmes.
Air Pollution: The objective is to ensure that established ambient air quality standards are observed
and improved. The strategies to be used include establishment of air quality standards and
monitoring stations, and provision of guidelines to abate air pollution.
In a way, this policy directly addresses issues of Health Care Waste. It is a matter of legislation and
regulations that would translate the policy into reality.
3.2    National Legislation
3.2.1  Constitution of Lesotho
The entire environmental legal mandates are derived from the Constitution of Lesotho, Section 36
which states that:
"Lesotho shall adopt policies to protect and enhance the natural and cultural environment
of Lesotho for the benefit of both present and future generations and shall endeavor to assure all
citizens a sound and safe environment adequate for their health and well being."
The constitution therefore sets an adequate stage for legislation and regulation of human activities
that are detrimental to the environment, including poor waste management. Several pieces of
legislation have been developed with various degree of addressing the HCWM. These pieces of
legislation are:
23



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
3.2.2  Public health Order 1970
This is a legal instrument that makes provisions for Public Health and the Ministry of Health and
Social Welfare implements it. These provisions are obligatory to all health institutions in the
country, including hospitals, clinics, and pharmacies.
In this mandate are found the clauses that address the issue of waste management at community,
business and industrial levels only. It does not give provisions on waste generated from health
institutions and applicable standards to its management. This mandate is to be enforced by health
officers and other officers that may be appointed by the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare.
The law is highly outdated and should be reviewed with the objective of harmonizing it with other
relevant laws, but even more to include specific issues on general administrative regulations of
Health facilities, Environmental management regulations within health facilities and provision for
technical guidelines for all major professional procedures within the health care system.
3.2.3  Environment Act 2001
This Act was developed to "provide for the management of the environment and all natural
resources and for connected matters" (Environment Act 2001). Where environmental issues are
concerned, it supersedes all other national legal instruments. The Act does not have sections that
precisely address issues on Medical Waste Management but there are sections that may be
applicable.
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
Under Section 27 of this Act, it is stipulated that Environmental Impact Assessment shall be
undertaken for all projects and activities listed in the schedule attached to the Act, and some of the
activities listed are applicable in construction of health facilities, treatment of medical waste and its
disposal. The act also authorizes the Lesotho Environment Authority (LEA) to monitor and audit
operation of such facilities.
Environmental Quality Standards
The Act allows for LEA to establish the Environmental Quality Standards, namely, Water Quality
Standards; Air Quality Standards; Standards for Waste; Soil Quality Standards; Standards for
Noise; Standards for Ionization and other Radiation; Standards for the control of Noxious Smells;
Guidelines for Environmental Disasters and other relevant standards. These standards, though not
yet established will require all medical facilities to observe them.
Pollution Control
This part of the Act prohibits discharge of hazardous substances, chemicals and materials into the
environment. It also stipulates the procedures on acquisition of Effluent Discharge License,
Pollution License and Ionizing Radiation License, all of which most hospitals in the country are
obliged to have.
24



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
Environmental Management
This section addresses the issues of management of hazardous waste, importation and exportation
of hazardous waste and acquisition of disposal sites are addressed. And according to Section 77,
for an institution to own and operate a waste disposal site or plant other than one used for
domestic waste, it has to be in possession of a license to operate such facility.
Apart from that, it is stated in this act that LEA shall issue guidelines and prescribe measures for
the management of toxic and hazardous substances. Therefore national health centers shall
handle these substances in accordance with those issued guidelines and prescribed measures.
This Act is currently undergoing review towards updating and harmonizing institutional frameworks.
3.2.4 Urban Government Act 1983
The Urban Government Act of 1983 was meant to provide for the establishment and regulation of
urban local authorities and to provide for matters incidental thereto. The powers of the councils as
provided by the Act include 'generally promote the public health, welfare and convenience, and the
development, sanitation and amenities...'
In this Act the urban councils are mandated to provide, when a need arises, the sanitary services
and refuse removal within the defined boundaries of the municipality. This Act has up to date been
partially implemented. In Lesotho there is only one Municipality, which is Maseru City, managed by
Maseru City Council. The Council does offer refuse collection services, within its capability. No
waste is referred to or even treated as hazardous; hence the city's waste is collected as mixed and
disposed as mixed. The current situation in this municipality is that small government and private
medical centers transport their needles to the referral hospital for incineration, and MCC collects
the ash from this referral hospital and other centers that operate incinerators and transport it to the
official disposal site.
The act is adequate for its purpose, however it has to be extended to all other districts and be
adequately funded. The major failure of the Council and Town Clerks in other towns is general
lack of funds. The local authorities do not have adequate mandate to collect taxes and fees such
as rates. As a result even waste collection fees are difficult to collect, leading to poor services
afforded.
3.2.5  Sanitary Services and Refuse Removal Regulations 1972
In these regulations, the clauses that are relevant to medical waste are found in Section 14. The
general stipulation of these is that no waste should be deposited or kept or stored within a public
view in such a manner that it becomes nuisance, injurious and dangerous to health. These were
promulgated under the local Administration Act of 1969, administered by the then the ministry of
Interior. These regulations also derive their power from the Public Health Order of 1970.
The regulations are also, outdated, providing for pail latrines and they are still laying penalties of
M50 for offenders and refuse removal fee of 75 cents per quarter.
25



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                         March 2005
3.2.6  Labour Code (Chemical Safety) Regulations 2003
These regulations were developed specifically for Industrial Sector of Lesotho and with intention of
protecting the employees of this sector from hazardous waste that they come in contact with at
workplace. The regulations are silent about the exposure of the public and the environment in
general towards the chemicals referred to. However, they have clauses that are relevant for use in
medical waste management and that can be used as guidelines. These clauses address the
following issues:
- Labeling and packaging
- Identification and classification of chemicals
- Display of safety signs, posters and notices
- Material Safety Data Sheets
- Exposure to Radioactive Chemical Substances
- Workplace and Health surveillance
- Training and Information of workers
- Personal Protection
- Personal Hygiene
- First Aid and Fire Safety
- Reporting of Accidents, Dangerous Occurrences and Diseases
- Records of Use of Chemicals at Workplace and Exposure of Workers to them
- Housekeeping
3.3    International Conventions
Lesotho is a party to a number of multilateral environmental agreements. The agreements in which
Lesotho participates which are relevant to chemicals used in health facilities and the resulting
waste are:
Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants
The Parties to this Convention:
Recognizing that persistent organic pollutants possess toxic properties, resist degradation,
bioaccumulate and are transported, through air, water and migratory species, across international
boundaries and deposited far from their place of release, where they accumulate in terrestrial and
aquatic ecosystems,
Determined to protect human health and the environment from the harmful impacts of persistent
organic pollutants,
Have agreed to institute measures to reduce or eliminate releases from both intentional and
unintentional production and use, as well as reducing releases from stockpiles and wastes of the
twelve persistent organic chemicals, listed in the annexes A, B and C of the convention. Among
the major sources of one group of these pollutants, Dioxins and Furans (includes PCBs) are
thermal processes, of which medical waste incineration is one of the contributors.
26



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                        March 2005
Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Wastes and their
Disposal
The Basel Convention makes specific reference to control of special HCW: sharps, pathological
infectious waste, hazardous chemical waste, and pharmaceutical waste. Annex I of the Basel
Convention includes the following waste categories that specifically refer to healthcare waste:
Clinical wastes from medical care in hospitals, medical centers, and clinics.
* Wastes from the production and preparation of pharmaceutical products.
* Waste pharmaceuticals, drugs, and medicines, and
* Waste from the production, formulation and use of biocides and phytopharmaceuticals.
Rofferdam Convention on Prior Informed Procedure for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and
Pesticides in International Trade
The purpose of this convention is to reduce hazards posed by chemicals and pesticides by
facilitating information exchange about their characteristics by providing for a national decision-
making process on their import and export and by disseminating these decisions to parties.
The convention covers pesticides and chemicals that have been banned or severely restricted for
health or environmental reasons by parties and which have been notified by parties for inclusion in
the Prior Informed Procedures. These include some chemicals that are used in medical practice.
The country has, however not been able to implement its political will on these conventions due to
constraints of lack of financial resources, limited institutional capacity and inadequate
environmental awareness.
3.4    National Permits
For construction and operation of health and waste management facilities, there are a number of
departments that should be involved to give approval and in most cases in a form of a license. The
licenses required are given in Table 1 below. Those that derive from Environment Act 2001, are
currently being operated on good faith as the law is not yet fully operational.
Table 3: Licenses required for construction and operation of Healthcare and Waste Management
Facilities.
LicenselApproval     Department         Division             Period of Acquirement
/Ministry to be     Issuing
Consulted
EIA License        National          EIA & Pollution  When EIS has been reviewed by all relevant
Environment        Control Division  stakeholders and LEA is satisfied that it is
Secretariat                       adequate and the project should be approved.
Effluent Discharge  National         EIA & Pollution  Issuing of this license not yet operational and
License            Environment       control Division  period of acquirement not specified
Secretariat
Pollution License  National          EIA & Pollution  Issuing of this license not yet operational and
Environment        control Division  period of acquirement not specified
27



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
Secretariat
lonising Radiation  National         EIA & Pollution  Issuing of this license not yet operational and
License            Environment       control Division  period of acquirement not specified
Secretariat
Building Operations  Ministry of Local  Building    30 days after an authority has received an
Approval           Government        authority      application
Lease              Lands Survey and  Physical       Maximum of 6 months
Physical Planning  Planning
Disposal Site      National          EIA & Pollution  Issuing of this license not yet operational and
License            Environment       control Division  period of acquirement not specified
Secretariat
3.5    Institutional Frameworks and Administrative Issues
3.5.1  Government Health Facilities
The Government Health Facilities are administered by the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
(MoHSW) through different departments and units, most of which filter down to the level of
hospitals and filter clinics. These departments are described below.
Planning Unit
This is the arm of the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning and it assists the departments
under the MoHSW to formulate policies, plans, strategies and proposals. It also monitors
implementation of these activities. The Planning Unit is responsible for sourcing funds, allocation of
available funds to the Ministry's departments and in mobilisation of resources.
The Planning Unit is centralized with its officers located in Maseru but they assist all the districts to
develop the operational plans and annual budgets. While the unit may procure funds for Health
care activities, the final use of such funds does not lie in the unit. The central finance dictates the
ceiling for annual budgets. The best planning can do is to prioritize and fit all activities within that
budget.
Health Education
This department is responsible for the development of health education and promotion policy for
the country and it implements and monitors it. It designs and develops information, education,
communication (IEC) messages, materials, media and other professional services for use by health
workers and the communities. The department also distributes the IEC materials and ensures their
efficient and effective use. So far there has not been any programme on HCWM.
Environmental Health
The Environmental Health department formulates implements and monitors the policy on
environmental Health. This is the department that enforces the public health and environmental
laws. It also creates awareness to health centres and the communities about environmental factors
that contribute to poor health.
28



Health Care Waste Manaaement Plan                                        March 2005
This department has been decentralized to all districts and it operates from the hospitals. Each
district has at least one health inspector who works with the hospital, other health facilities that are
serviced by the hospital, the town clerk and the urban boards, on environmental issues.
However, the Department of Environmental Health does not consider environmental management
of the Hospitals and its implementation as their responsibility. They only get involved at advisory
level where they give recommendations regarding the environmental state of the hospitals, and
these are usually ignored since the health facilities do not have personnel that are accountable for
enforcement and implementation of appropriate environmental management.
Estate Management Department
This department has two subdivisions that are important in medical waste management and these
are:
- Maintenance whose functions, among others, is to liaise and advise other departments
about standards specifications for medical equipment maintenance and
- Transport that holds the responsibility of managing the Ministry's vehicles.
Each HSA has its own fleet of vehicles that is managed by the hospital and serves all the health
facilities within that HSA.  These vehicles include ambulances, trucks for transportation of
equipment, 4 X 4 vehicles for transportation of health workers to remote areas, but none of these
vehicles are specialized for transportation of medical waste.
Though MoHSW has the unit of maintenance, it has no specialized personnel for maintenance of
medical waste technology, which is why most government hospitals are not incinerating their waste
though they have appropriate incinerators.
3.5.2  Christian Health Association of Lesotho (CHAL)
There are about eight (8) hospitals and 70 clinics in the country that are owned and managed by
the churches; and these churches are Roman Catholic, Evangelical Church and Seventh Day
Adventist and Anglican. The national health and environmental laws and regulations govern these
health facilities, and CHAL acts as a coordinator between them and the Government of Lesotho
(MoHSW).
Originally, the churches managed to raise adequate funding for their operation and staffing. In the
advent of donor fatigue or diminishing interest, particularly to these traditional churches, it has been
difficult for them to sustain their operations. In an attempt to recover costs, their fees are higher
than those of the government. An attempt was made to help them out and plans are underway to
harmonize this partnership, in the interest of the nation. CHAL still lacks adequate capital cost for
improvement, but their management is far better than the government health facilities.
3.5.3 Private Surgeries
Individual medical doctors registered with Lesotho Medical Council own the private surgeries. The
national laws and regulations also govern these surgeries. Monitoring of the activities of these
institutions is currently non-existence, and it seems the Medical Council and Association are
29



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
dormant, due to internal conflicts and lack of clear mandate and relationship with the parent
Ministry.
3.6 External Institutions
3.6.1 Operational Links
A number of Governmental Ministries share substantial responsibilities in management of waste.
In a case of medical waste, MoHSW is responsible for putting in place the systems that will allow
for appropriate management of this waste in all health facilities, from point of generation to disposal
sites. Apart from MoHSW, there is the Ministry of Tourism, Environment and Culture (MTEC)
which has a responsibility of protecting the environment by developing environment policies;
drawing action plans; issuing environmental management guidelines and advising other ministries
and sectors in environmental issues. The arm of MTEC in implementation of these activities is the
National Environment Secretariat (NES).
The Ministry of Local Government has a major role in management of medical waste since it is its
responsibility to provide refuse removal and disposal services. The implementing institutions for
this Ministry are the urban council in Maseru (Maseru City Council) and the offices of town clerks in
other districts. The Ministry of Natural Resources as an overseer towards protection of water
resources comes in where wastewater is concerned. There are two departments under this
ministry that work together for this cause and these are:
- The Department of Water Affairs which is responsible for drawing water policies and
monitoring water quality, both surface and ground; and
- Water and Sewage Authority (WASA), which provides waste water treatment facilities.
Another major role player in medical waste management is the Ministry of Labour and
Employment. Through its department of Occupational Safety and Health it has a responsibility of
protecting the workers from health threatening working conditions and risks.
3.6.2 Advisory Committees
Commiffee on Waste Management (COWMAN)
This is an advisory committee established under NES with the primary objective to create
conditions for environmentally sound waste management systems in Lesotho. Its membership
consists of representatives from different governmental and parastatals institutions and NGO's. To
mention a few of these institutions, there is Ministry of Trade and Industry, Ministry of Natural
Resources, WASA, Maseru City Council, Ministry of Labour and Employment (the Department of
Occupational Safety and Health), National University of Lesotho (Faculty of Science), Lesotho
Highlands Development Authority etc. The only weakness in composition of this committee is that
the general public and the private sector are not represented.
The duties of this committee are mainly but not limited to:
- advise NES on issues relating to waste management
- assist in the management and disposal of  waste in an environmentally sound and
sustainable manner and to
30



Health Care Waste ManaQement Plan                                        March 2005
- Provide an opportunity for exchange of information and experiences.
Since this committee is very big (consists of about 25 members), it operates by selecting task team
for each assignment they have at hand. And in management of healthcare waste the health
facilities and MoHSW in general can reap several benefits from this committee including:
- expertise advise on technical and social issues linked to medical waste management
- free survey and determination of appropriate sites for disposal provided there are some sites
that are proposed and
- information based on experiences by different departments.
Chemicals Management Committee (CHEMAC)
This committee is also an advisory committee established under NES with the primary objective to
create conditions for environmentally sound management chemicals in Lesotho. Its membership
consists of representatives from different governmental and parastatals institutions and NGO's.
31



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                       March 2005
4.0    Baseline Data/Current Situation
The current situation has been reflected in two fold, regarding medical waste management in
Lesotho. Firstly Quantities of overall Hospital waste was estimated using empirical calculations on
the basis of SA Incinerator company research findings. Secondly the most pertinent issues in
medical waste management are discussed. Lastly, the constraints that were reported and observed
are accounted. This is so that the baseline situation can be cohesive.
4.1    Waste quantities
Queen 11 HCW determination study
For effective development of a waste management plan, the quantities of different categories of
HCW generated have to be established. It was agreed that a thirty days (one month) period would
provide an adequate assessment of generation trends at QEII hospital. To achieve this,
segregation of HCW at generation points had to be practiced. Given the prevailing conditions at
QEII, certain measures had to be employed to solicit cooperation from the medical staff. First was
to get support from management, which was duly provided from the Medical Superintendent to the
Hospital Administrators. The latter went out of their way to introduce the study team to different
sections of the hospital and afford them audience with staff on the study expectations.
Second was to procure equipment necessary for effective segregation at generation points given
the current practices and determine the amounts of each category of HCW generated. The
following equipment was procured:
* 10 litre medical waste bin x 41
* 25 litre medical waste bin x 16
* 90 litre refuse bin x 28
. black polythene refuse bag x 500
. red polythene refuse bag x 500
* digital scale x 1
* gazebo tent x 1
Apart from the scale and tent, the other equipment was meant to complement the already available
equipment at the hospital.
Table 4 below is a summary of waste generation as measured at Queen Elizabeth II over a period
of one month.
32



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                    March 2005
Table 4: The results of weighing of different categories of HCW at Queen Elizabeth II Hospital.
Date     Quantities of Wastes Generated
(kg)
Sharps       Infectious    Anatomical   General       Pharmaceutical
Dec 7    0             35.0         70.8          129.5        0
8     8.7          146.5         79.0         246.6         0
9     16.3         122.7         75.2         146.5         0
10    4.5           47.9         64.2          290.8        0
11    1.4           63.5          16.4         30.7         0
12    0             42.7         46.9          9.4          0
13    9.9           116.6        92.2          300.7        0
14    22.7          105.2        37.2          259.2        0
15    1.5           71.9         69.9          199.1        0
16    5.8           101.6        50.8          224.1        0
17    28.6          66.8         87.3          190.7        0
18    4.1           51.2         43.1          25.8         0
19    0             46.6         24.3          5.1          0
20     6.5          137.2        91.8          260.5        0
21     2.2          92.8         66.4          169.0         0
22     0            82.8         50.3          125.5         0
23     0            121.8        43.1          167.0         0
24     12.5         101.8        55.1          152.5         0
25     0            50.7          49.0         27.0          0
26     0            50.7          26.0         0.6           0
27     1.4          157.7        56.1          198.0         0
28     3.2          98.0         85.5          157.1        0
29     20.4         91.0         68.9          106.6         0
30     0            90.0          41.4         145.6        0
31     24.4         107.5         39.8         96.2          0
Jan 1    4.1           32.7         33.6          2.6          0
2     0            28.6          49.2         10.1          0
3     7.4          171.2        56.1          181.2         0
4     5.5          78.2          14.7         194.2         0
5     53.2         81.5          36.3         226.4         0
Total    *244.3        2 592.4      1 620.6      4 278.3           **0
*the normal sharps container used at QEII is the 25 litre plastic bucket type which weighs 4.9 kg of
sharps when full. Therefore the total number of buckets required for the 244.3 kg of sharps
recorded during the study period is 50.
**the zero amount recorded for pharmaceutical wastes is due to the policy mentioned earlier of
stockpiling expired or wasted medicines and drugs instead of destroying or disposing of them until
they can be verified and their destruction witnessed by the relevant stakeholders.
33



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
4.2    Segregation and Storage
In all health centers visited, the waste that is religiously separated from the rest comprise of
needles, which are placed in needle containers, two liter medicine containers or in desperate
situations in card board boxes. All other waste - gloves, anatomical, swaps, etc, - are mixed in one
container, which in most cases is an ordinary dust-bin. To make removal of this waste from the
generation point to treatmentdisposal point easier, black plastic bags are used. There is no
labeling at all, neither on the dust-bin nor plastic bag. There is also no recording of waste on
removal from one point to another. In most cases if not all, it is the cleaners who remove waste
from the generation point to the treatment point.
jC''
'11/24/200.
Figure 1: Mixed waste in a dustbin at Thamae Municipality clinic
In all health centers there are no appropriate storage facilities for the waste generated before it can
be treated. It is therefore kept in the same room of generation, still in its black plastic bag and dust-
bin, until it is removed by the cleaners. In small clinics where the needles have to be transported to
large hospitals for incineration, one of the rooms at the center is used for storage of containers full
of needles. In some centers these containers are removed from storage to incineration on weekly
basis while in others they are removed only when transport is available, and at times it takes about
two months before it gets available.
From the visits undertaken by consultants, it became evident that, the segregation practice that is
consistent was that of sharps (almost always in their respective containers), the rest of the waste is
mixed together, sometimes at source or during collection to the treatment site. One category that
is almost always separated is anatomical waste. Mainly from the Gynaecology department, human
34



Health Care Waste Mana-iement Plan                                        March 2005
tissues are separated and disposed separately. There are however, high incidences of mixing
those with other infectious waste, such as items contaminated with blood and excreta materials.
Three streams of waste could thus be identified (sharps, infectious waste and general waste).
4.3    Treatments and Disposal
For treatment and disposal of HCW there are three different situations depending on the size and
location of the health center. These situations are as follows:
4.3.1  Hospitals
All  hospitals  visited  had  appropriate
incinerators that can operate at temperatures
above   the   recommended     minimum
temperature of 1,2000C. However, all but one
incinerator was operating, and still, the latter               -
was operating only at 8000C. Most hospitals
have constructed the incinerator with bricks
where they place the waste and use diesel to
burn it. In a few cases, the same process of
manually spraying the waste with diesel and
then burning it is used with the appropriate
incinerators that are supposed to operate
automatically.
Figure 2: A small capacity incinerator at Mabote filter clinic.
The reason given for this entire situation was that these incinerators need maintenance and there
is no personnel at the centres that have such skills. As all hospitals with this problem are
government hospital, it was also mentioned that the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare has been
informed on numerous occasions
ions about this problem but there has not been any response. After incineration of waste, the
resulting ash mixed with remnants of sharps is placed in dustbins where the municipal or hospital
laborers will collect it and dispose it at official disposal sites.
In the district of Thaba-Tseka, the central Hospital belongs to CHAL and has no incinerator
whatsoever, the sharps are being buried in an old septic tank which is now full to the brim (see
figure 3) The anatomical waste is either buried in very shallow pits and covered or disposed in pit
latrines.
4.3.2  Clinics and Surgeries in Peri-urban Areas
These include clinics and surgeries in towns of Lesotho and in the villages that access those towns
easily. These centers transport their needles to the nearest government hospitals. The rest of the
35



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                      March 2005
hazardous waste is burnt or buried while general waste is placed in the dustbins for the
municipality to collect for disposal.
Figure 3: Disposal of sharp at one of the hospitals located in the Highlands of Lesotho.
4.3.4  Clinics in Rural Areas
Most of these clinics are located in remote areas of Lesotho far from the towns. They are supposed
to transport their needles to the Hospitals that serve them, but due to lack of transport this is not
possible. As a result they bury these needles, and most clinics bury them outside their compound
while a few bury them within the compound or pit latrines, along with anatomical waste like
placentas. The rest of the waste is burned using any form of fuel, and is disposed on disposal heap
or in a pit where it is later buried.
4.4    Disposal sites
In the whole country there is no sanitary landfill. The Ministry of Local Government is the one
responsible for allocation and management of disposal sites. And the areas currently used in urban
areas for disposal of solid waste are undeveloped and inappropriate sites that have been selected
for such purpose by the municipality or town clerks. The very same sites are used for disposal of
medical waste in urban areas. Most of these sites are also unprotected and this can attract the
people to come for scavenging.
There are no legal or official disposal sites in rural areas. Each health center has its own way of
disposing of the waste. As mentioned above some clinics send their needles to the hospitals for
incineration, and the hospital will take care of the disposal too. The anatomical waste is buried, and
in some other cases the needles are buried along with anatomical waste, while the rest of the
waste is burned at the disposal heap. There are a few clinics that have built kilns where they burn
all their waste and bury it afterwards.
36



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                        March 2005
4.5    Level of awareness
Management personnel are very much aware of the need to manage HCW properly. They are
even aware of the practices, which they acknowledge that they are definitely not appropriate or
adequate.
Doctors are also aware and they try by all means to segregate at least into three categories. They
have noted that final management of waste is left to cleaners.
Nursing staff: being the most central group in medical processes, they are not only aware of the
requirements of standard practices, but they also know what should happen. They are limited by
capacity, in terms of their numbers, required equipment and infrastructure in general.
Cleaners and porters: these are the groups that simply handle the waste from where it has been
collected in various containers. Out of cultural intuition, they are aware that anatomical waste
should be handled and disposed in some special way, however, since burning has been provided
as an option, they normally would mix everything, when transporting to the treatment site. To
them, all is going to be burnt after all. The risks are vaguely understood even though they are
acknowledged.
Gardeners: This group of staff has been rather misused. They are occasionally required or posted
to operate incinerators and to bury some anatomical waste in non-specific areas within the health
center campus. Because they have no light whatsoever on medical waste management, they
simply follow orders, putting themselves to all possible risks.
4.6    Current Operational Constraints
The first and probably most important constraint that was observed was demotivation among all
staff members at all levels. This is observable through the general attitude of not caring,
relinquishing responsibilities and general feeling of helplessness and negligence. As a result of
lack of incentives (especially financial) staff members tend to do the least expected of them. There
are conflicts across all cadres as to whose responsibility it is to segregate and ensure proper waste
management. There is no monitoring and as a result individuals do things haphazardly.
Capacity constraints: Capacity problems indicated by almost all respondents include inadequate
staffing at all levels, hence the core functions are redefined, in all cases leaving the aspect of
waste management out. This has further led to overworked staff that would take any opportunity to
rest, thus neglecting duties.
Poor knowledge of proper waste management processes and protective requirements is yet
another constraint, especially among the cleaners and gardeners/porters who are used to collect
and operate "incinerators" and burn it in pits and kilns.
There is a general lack of clear job descriptions and reporting as well as monitoring responsibilities,
leading to no accountability. . A very great proportion of the staff have no idea as to what are the
priorities of the sector, everything is business as it comes.
37



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
The major complaints received from all staff at all levels were that:
.  The management does not seem to care or show much commitment to staff welfare even
normal operations (budget allocation and frequent breakdowns of equipment were cited as
examples), the management pointed upwards.
.  Communication channels are broken, and information does not reach/trickle down to lower
levels and sometimes even to targeted groups
.  Managers lack proper management skills in general, they are normally medical
technocrats, who have not received any administrative training.
4.7    Communities Response
In all districts visited other than Maseru, the information found from the communities and the health
centres are that the people do not scavenge on medical waste. On observation too, there were no
people found scavenging on waste within the compounds of the health centers. However, the
nearby communities are still exposed to high risks since the places where the medical waste is
stored, incinerated or disposed of are not securely protected and there are no signs that show the
people that such places are dangerous.
When asked about their level of awareness, the response from the communities was that the
people have a general knowledge that medical waste can be hazardous but they do not really
know how. Other than that they do not know how to manage and handle it in case they come in
contact with it.
38



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
5.0    Assessment of Health Care Waste (Management in Lesotho)
5.1    Health Care Waste Hierarchy
There are generally four key steps to HCW management.
1)     Segregation into various components, including reusable and safe storage in appropriate
containers; Waste is produced or generated within hospital units/wards indifferent categories. It is
therefore commendable to separate it in order to dispose of each category appropriately. Costs
are involved in the management process, hence the separation also allows for cost reduction
through reuse or recycling within general wastes.
2)     Transportation to waste treatment and disposal sites; this requires minimization of
exposure to workers, hence should be done in a manner that does not require further removal from
its containers.
3)     Treatment:  Disposal methods vary according to type of waste, local environment,
available technology, acceptance and costs. Burial of substances is an accepted method in
Lesotho, probably because the dead are also buried. The practice has been extended to all other
tissue materials. The risk to ground water is high, however this does not seem to be an issue
regarding burial sites in all villages. The final choice of treatment must consider above all operation
expense and secondary waste.
4)     Final disposition: This in turn also depends on the treatment. Land filling is the most
effective means, if well managed and well sited. This choice is sustainable and environmentally
sound, though relatively expensive to build.
Within the Health Care facility, the first three steps do apply, while the last step requires external
intervention. The drive behind proper HCW management is a public and workers health issue, as
such; solutions cannot come only from the health sector, but from all relevant role players.
5.2    The Queen Elizabeth II Hospital
The discussion of the state of the largest Health facility in Lesotho offers a clearer picture in terms
of the situation in most of the hospitals, and what the public is facing and could be facing in other
facilities if proper interventions are not urgently instituted.
General Premises
The premises are not accorded the level of cleanliness deserving of such an institution. Old
equipment including beds, examination tables, shelves, trolleys, sponges (mattresses), pillows, and
others is dumped at various locations within the premises. Added to these are collapsed roofing
materials comprising purlines and corrugated iron sheets, builders rubble from earlier renovations,
and the general waste such as bottles, plastic, cans, paper, surgical gloves and an assortment of
debris which have not found their way to waste receptacles and are scattered all over the premises
and in some cases, even causing blockages to the drainage system.
39



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
There is an inadequate distribution of general waste receptacles to cater for people awaiting health
services at different areas of the hospital, with some areas lacking any receptacles at all. For
instance, the Dental and ENT area has none, the eye clinic has one, the TB clinic area one, and
the casualty and registration area one.
The area next to the eastern gate that is currently used as the main entrance has a convergence of
vendors with the resultant generation of all sorts of wastes which due to the absence of waste
receptacles, are dumped indiscriminately at convenient spots, presenting unsightly stockpiles to
both hospital visitors and people who pass by. The problem is compounded by the informal
caterings that have sprung up around the area.
The hospital drainage system is in a very poor state of maintenance. As mentioned above, the
storm water drains are clogged with vegetation and all sorts of debris which disrupt the conveyance
of the water, resulting in the built up of silt within the channels. The sewerage system is in need of
attention with pipes leaking at places. As a result of this, there is a smelly puddle outside ward 4
and several open ground discharges along the system.
The yards, including lawns are not maintained properly and as a result, there is general overgrowth
of grass and vegetation, which distorts the landscape and extends to the open storm water drains
thus, interfering with the flow of run-off and causing unsanitary conditions to prevail. The trees are
not trimmed and their location is not in harmony with either the landscape or the buildings. In fact,
some of these trees are just an obstruction to other structures and walkways
The hospital has employed five grounds men complimented on a daily basis by two prisoners.
Despite the presence of these people, and as indicated above, the hospital grounds look like they
are never attended to.
HCW Storage at Generation Points
The storage of health care wastes at different generation points by medical staff is based on the
principle of segregation into primarily three categories of HCW namely, general, infectious, and
sharps. In the maternity ward and the theatre a fourth category, the anatomical, is added. Different
departments use different storage methods;
Wards - the most common method of general wastes storage is the cardboard boxes. When full,
the boxes are emptied into black refuse bags. Sharps are stored in specially designed 20 litre
buckets while the infectious category such as dressings, disposable nappies, and pads are stored
in 15-20 litre refuse bins lined with red refuse bags. In the maternity ward, 50 litre bins lined with
red refuse bags are used for anatomical wastes.
Laboratory and Blood Bank - these departments use autoclavable plastic bags for storage of both
general and infectious wastes but separately.
OPD and Casualty - both these departments use 50 litre bins for storage of general wastes while
cardboard boxes are used for infectious wastes such as swabs and dressings. The injection room
uses 20 litre sharps containers for sharps and 5 litre buckets lined with black refuse bags for swabs
and other general wastes.
40



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
Theatre - anatomical wastes are stored in 50 litre refuse bins lined with black refuse bags while
cardboard boxes are used for infectious and general wastes.
The afore mentioned principle of waste segregation is not strictly adhered to, and different
categories of HCW find their way into wrong containers. It is common to find dressings, swabs, and
sharps in the container for general wastes and to find components of general waste such as
cartons, soft drink cans and bottles, and left over foods among infectious wastes.
HCW Collection from Generation Points
From the wards, theatre, laboratory, and other generation points, HCW is collected by cleaners and
transported either by trolleys or hands to designated areas for treatment and final storage before
offsite disposal. Infectious wastes and sharps are taken to the incinerator for destruction and the
general wastes are taken to a storage area next to the rear eastern gate near the old incinerator to
await collection by Maseru City Council (MCC) collection crew for final disposal, as seen in the
picture.
I.   . bi
1~~~~~~~~~~~77
12/30/2004
Figure 4: General waste dumped at Queen IIhospital premises
The only form of protective clothing afforded the cleaners apart from coveralls are, the nose masks,
the surgical gloves, and in some cases such as those from the theatre and maternity wards. Given
the storage situation at generation points, these cleaners are subjected to daily risks of prick
injuries with resultant potential infection.
41



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                         March 2005
HCW Treatment
Infectious wastes and sharps are destroyed by means of a mechanical incinerator capable of
reaching the highest temperatures of 1 3000C when operating under ideal conditions. Two
operators who work alternate shifts manage the incinerator. The cleaners deposit wastes on the
paved floor of the incinerator enclosure and leave it there for the operator to deal with. Wastes are
handled and fed into the incinerator manually.
The operators are equipped with one pair of elbow length rubber gloves, which they share, and like
the cleaners, are subjected to the risk of prick injuries. The operators are also often reassigned
other duties within the hospital premises, leaving the incinerator area unattended. Given the
different household uses that the bucket type sharps containers are put to, this encourages theft of
these by both staff and visitors. The sharps are emptied either on the enclosure floor, dumped into
the furnace chamber if the door is open, or dumped inside the open storm water drainage channel
running past the incinerator area. Two people were actually caught red handed with two containers
they had just emptied into the furnace.
The incinerator itself is in a state of disrepair and is not operating effectively as per design. The
motor is not running, fuel is fed manually into the furnace chamber to start the fire, and the
temperature monitor is not functioning. The operators are not trained, and as such, cannot be
trusted to undertake proper and cost effective operation and maintenance of the incinerator. For
instance, considerable wastage of fuel was observed on two occasions where the improvised fuel
release was left to run unattended until the collecting vessel was overflowing onto the enclosure
floor. Poor segregation results in the presence of wrong types of wastes such as cans and bottles
which have the potential of hampering the normal operation and efficiency of the incinerator.
Although the enclosure has a paved floor, it is not regularly cleaned and this results in occasional
spillages and scatterings from overfull receptacles causing unsanitary conditions around the
incinerator area.
Collection of HCW from Hospital Premises
The filled black polythene bags and cardboard boxes of general wastes and ash from the
incinerator are collected by the MCC refuse collection crew once daily except weekends when they
do not come at all. The crew, just like the cleaners and incinerator operators, are at risk of prick
injuries and infection due to sharps. The crew is also made to ignorantly handle other infectious
HCW without necessary precautions due to failure by the medical staff to observe the segregation
principle.
Disposal of HCW
HCW from the hospital is transported by MCC to the Ts'osane dumpsite just on the outskirts of the
city. This is a poorly managed crude dump, which is frequented by scavengers from neighbouring
villages. The HCW reaching this place is not afforded proper disposal such as that found in a
proper landfill hence, the lives of scavengers are put at risk.
42



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
Segregation of HCW
For the purposes of the study, HCW was to be segregated according to five categories, namely,
sharps, infectious, anatomical, pharmaceutical and general. Sharps would be stored in sharps
containers or safety boxes, infectious in 10 or 25 litre containers lined with red refuse bags,
anatomical in 10, 25, 50 litre, or larger containers lined with red refuse bags, pharmaceutical in red
refuse bags, and general in 50 or 90 litre containers lined with black refuse bags. Only sharps
containers or safety boxes and red refuse bags would reach the incinerator while the black refuse
bags would go to the final storage area for collection by MCC.
To facilitate this, different departments of the hospital were briefed on the new arrangement prior to
distribution of storage receptacles. While most showed willingness to comply, some like the
maternity ward resisted outright and declared that they would stick to their normal practice,
claiming that this new approach would confuse them. The study team had to compromise and let
them continue with their normal practice as long as separation of different categories of wastes
could be observed.
The findings revealed that departments, which showed initial resistance, did not abide by the new
approach. Wastes from the maternity ward were the most problematic. General waste including
leftover foods, cans, bottles, and plastic were always found mixed with human tissues, syringes,
swabs, and dressings. Apart from the obvious health risks posed by this practice, it also presented
the team with problems of classifying the wastes.
While the theatre complied with the segregation arrangement, the only problem presented by them
was non-observance of colour codes with all wastes except sharps stored in black polythene bags.
This poses the possible risk of mistakenly taking wastes to wrong destinations with resultant health
risks to individuals who handle or come into contact with such wastes.
The rest of other departments performed commendably.
Weighing of HCW
At the weigh station, the wastes were identified according to the five categories and weighed
separately. After weighing, the wastes were transferred to their respective destinations, that is,
sharps, anatomical, and infectious to the incinerator while general wastes went to the final storage
for collection by MCC. As a matter of policy, pharmaceutical wastes (expired medicines and drugs)
are returned to the storeroom and can only be destroyed after consultation and in the presence of
relevant stakeholders which include Finance and the Treasury.
As mentioned earlier, wastes from the maternity ward were difficult to classify. The team had to use
their own discretion to determine the category of each bundle depending on which type between
anatomical and infectious wastes formed the bulk of the consignment. General waste found within
was classified as either of the two
43



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                    March 2005
Table 5: Health Care Waste Generated by Major Facilities in Lesotho. (extrapolated estimates)
Hospital facility   Number Daily     Annual  Extrapolat Extrapolated  Hazardo
of Beds waste @ Waste    ed daily  annual values us waste
1.44kgIbId        values @               amount
1.068                 @ 25%
kg/bldE
Mafeteng                200      288   104,988      214       77964   22869
Mokhotlong              110      158   57,743       117       42880   12578
Butha-Buthe             129      186   67,717       138       50287   14751
Leribe                  287      413   150,658      307      111878   32817
Berea                   128      184   67,192       137       49897   14636
QE II (Maseru)          450      647  236,223       481      175419   51455
Mohales'Hoek            140      201   73,492       150       54575    16008
Quthing                 148      213   77,691       158       57693    16923
Qachas, Nek             145      209   76,116       155       56524    16580
Thaba-Tseka             130      187   68,242       139       50677    14865
St. James                60       86   31,496                 23389    6861
(Mantsonyane)                                       64
Maluti (Mapoteng)       150      216   78,741       160       58473   17152
Botsabelo (Lepereng)     21       30   11,024        22        8186    2402
Itekeng Vocational R.    69       99   36,221        74       26898    7890
Mohlomi (Maseru)        150      216   78,741       160       58473   17151
Seboche (Butha-Buthe)    72      104   37,796        77       28067    8233
Scott (Morija)          102      147   53,544       109       39762   11663
St. Josephs (Roma)      140      201   73,492       150       54575    16008
Tebellong (Qachas'       55       79   28,872                 21440    6289
Nek)                                                59
'Mamohau (Lejone)        43       62   22,572       46        16762    4917
Maseru Private Hospital  32       46   16,798        34       12474    3659
Averages           l    131 |    19 |14                       51252l
 = values have been calculated on the basis of measurements made at Queen II hospital for a
period of one month.
 = calculated on the basis of the number of beds and the average generation rate of 1.44
kg/bed/day, from SA Incinerator Co (Pty) LTD.
44



Health Care Waste ManaQement Plan                                         March 2005
Summary of observations at Queen Elizabeth II Hospital:
* HCWM is not assigned any specific authority
* Segregation of HCW is not observed by the medical staff
Staff engaged in HCW handling is not provided with appropriate protective equipment
All staff is not trained in HCWM
HCW is not accorded effective treatment
There is rampant theft of plastic bucket type medical bins
Hospital grounds are not maintained in a manner deserving of a health care institution
There is general poor maintenance of equipment from the incinerator to the sewerage
network
5.3    Risk Assessments and Analysis
Most waste generated in healthcare establishments can be treated as regular municipal solid
waste. But a varying proportion of HCW requires special attention, including sharps (e.g. needles,
razors, and scalpels), pathological waste, other potentially infectious waste, pharmaceutical waste,
biological waste, and hazardous chemical waste. Collectively, these wastes are known as "special
healthcare waste". In addition, all waste generated under certain circumstances, such as in
isolation wards and microbiological laboratories, requires special attention. Other waste streams
generated by HCW could include packaging, reusable medical equipment, and secondary waste
created through disposal technologies. The mismanagement of healthcare waste poses risks to
people and the environment. Healthcare workers, patients, waste handlers, waste pickers, and the
general public are exposed to health risks from infectious waste (particularly sharps), chemicals,
and other special HCW. Improper disposal of special HCW, including open dumping and
uncontrolled buming, increases the risk of spreading infections and of exposure to toxic emissions
from incomplete combustion. For these reasons, occupational health and safety should be a
component of HCW management plans.
Transmission of disease generally occurs through injuries from contaminated sharps. Infections of
particular concern are Hepatitis B (HBV), Hepatitis C (HCV), and the human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV). HBV, for example, can remain infectious for a week, even dried at room temperature,
and the probability that a single needle stick will result in sero- conversion is approximately 30
percent. For HIV and HCV, the probability that a single needle stick will result in sero-conversion is
0.3-0.5 percent and 2-5 percent, respectively (WHO, 1997). In the healthcare sector alone, the
World Health Organization estimates that unsafe injections cause approximately 30,000 new HIV
infections, 8 million HBV infections, and 1.2 million HCV infections worldwide every year. Toxic
risks arise among others from reagents (particularly laboratory reagents), drugs, and mercury
thermometers.
Furthermore, sensitivity is needed in the management of special HCW when dealing with biological
waste. While the Basotho cultures bury the dead, they have definite views on the disposal and
burial of body parts. It is important to consider cultural factors in the disposition plans of special
HCW. Additionally, appropriate consideration of local community perception in the proposed waste
management plan for all HCW is integral to a sustainable disposition plan.
45



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
Normally nurses and the cleaning staff and grounds workers are responsible for day-to-day
management of HCW. The list is however longer; engineers, inspectors and drivers are also
involved and may be equally exposed. Proper HCWM extends beyond the health facility site.
Removing untreated potentially infectious HCW from the facility further exposes the public to the
risk; hence on site treatment should be a better option.
46



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
6.0    Determination of Technology
Using South African incinerator company waste generation guideline, which is probably on the
higher side, major hospitals in Lesotho produce about 1,290 tons of waste per year. According to
WHO guidelines, about 75% to 90% of this can be classified as general waste that can be
disposed of/treated like municipal waste. This leaves 25% to 10% that is classified as medical
waste (special and sharps), hazardous waste that poses a variety of potential health risks and thus
need special attention.
Different technologies are engaged at all levels /stages of HCWM.
6.1    Handling, Storage and Collection
Packaging and storage of special healthcare waste consists of primary packaging at the source
and secondary packaging for transportation. For primary packaging, all special healthcare waste
should be packed in leak-proof and disposable bags or containers. In addition, containers for
sharps must be puncture proof and glass containers are regarded unsuitable. A color code of either
yellow or red should be chosen for all special HCW. For pathological waste, the opposite (and non-
transparent) color should be used. In the case of secondary transport packaging, leak-proof solid
containers mounted with wheels should be used for easy transport. Color-coding should follow the
primary packaging color code. For environmental protection reasons, non-PVC products are
preferred. In-house storage may consist of two levels:
1) A well ventilated room at or near the ward, where waste collectors pick up the waste, and
2) A centrally located air-conditioned storage room, where temperatures can be kept low, until
waste is picked up for treatment.
In most Health Centers there are rooms adjacent to wards that can be used for purposes of
storage however there are no centrally located storage rooms
World Health Organization recommended colour-coding is as follows;
* General Health Care waste should be put in black bags
* Potentially infectious HCW/hazardous HCW should be put in yellow bags
While sharps are put into rigid containers which are also yellow or with yellow stickers to
indicate the risk level
To reinforce the color-coding system, all bag holders (which should be preferably the same as
'pedal bins') and transporting trolleys should be black for general waste and yellow for hazardous
waste. Separate trolleys should be used for general waste and potentially infectious waste.
At all times, personnel handling HCW must be protected, with appropriate personal protective
clothing; Mop caps, heavy duty gloves, acid resistant coverall and plastic aprons, safety goggles
and safety shoes.
47



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
6.2    Treatment
Autoclaving involves the heating of waste material, with steam, in an enclosed container at high
pressure. At the appropriate levels of time (> 60 min), temperature (>121C), and pressure (100
kPa) effective inactivation of all vegetative microorganisms and most bacterial spores can be
achieved. Preparation of material for autoclaving requires segregation to remove unsuitable
material and shredding to reduce the individual pieces of waste to an acceptable size.
Small autoclaves are common for sterilization of medical equipment but a waste management
autoclave can be a relatively complex and expensive system requiring careful design, appropriate
segregation of materials, and a high level of operation and maintenance support. The output from
an autoclave is non-hazardous material that can normally be land filled with municipal waste. There
is also a wastewater stream that needs to be disposed of with appropriate care and controls.
Furthermore, large autoclaves may require a boiler with stack emissions that will be subject to
control.
At present, the use of autoclaving, chemical disinfection or any other non-destructive technology
like microwave or radio wave irradiation is not allowed for the treatment of special HCW such as
organs, tissues, or amputated human body parts. Incineration or burials are the only accepted
techniques for the treatment of such special type of HCW. Required electricity and water as well
the secondary waste stream imply additional costs.
Microwave and Radio wave Irradiation involves the application over the wastes of a high energy
electromagnetic field that provokes the liquid contained within the waste, as well as the liquid cell
material of microorganisms, to oscillate at high frequency, heat up rapidly, and eventually cause
the destruction of all infectious components of the waste. The technique takes place in enclosed
containers at atmospheric pressure and temperatures below the normal water boiling point. The
waste passes through a preparative process of segregation to remove undesirable material, and
then it is triturated, pulverized, and compressed prior to its disinfection. Similar to the autoclaving
technique, the output from a microwave or radio wave facility is considered non-hazardous and can
be land filled together with municipal waste.
Since the technology does not involve the application of steam, there is a minimal generation of
wastewater stream, and with the appropriate conditioning it can be recycled to the system. Since
electricity is the main source of energy for operating this technology, gas emissions are also
minimal compared to incineration or even autoclaving, which requires the combustion of fuel for the
generation of steam. At the level of high volumes of waste, the technology is inherently expensive
and needs good infrastructure and its overall effectiveness is highly dependent on the
sophistication.
Chemical disinfection is used routinely in healthcare to kill microorganisms on medical equipment.
It has been lately extended to the treatment of HCW. Chemicals (mostly strong oxidants like
chlorine compounds, ammonium salts, aldehydes, and phenolic compounds) are added to the
waste to kill or inactivate pathogens. This treatment is most suitable for treating liquid wastes such
as blood, urine stools or hospital sewage, but solid and highly hazardous HCW like microbiological
cultures, or sharps must undergo a relatively complex and expensive preparative process of
48



Health Care Waste ManaQement Plan                                        March 2005
segregation shredding, and milling prior to the application of the chemical reagents. This
technology requires special treatment of hazardous wastewater streams.
In consideration of Waste Management situation in Lesotho as discussed in Section 1.4,
autoclaving, micro waving and radio wave irradiation cannot be options for Lesotho. These are
also expensive (capital intensive) and sophisticated in terms of skill/knowledge requirements. In
the light of weak chemical management infrastructure, chemical disinfection in HCW treatment is
not recommendable (no capacity for waste water streams treatment).
6.3    Incineration
Incineration is not the same as burning, which is what is being practiced using mal-functioning
incinerators. Proper incineration is a highly advanced technology that can adequately treat all types
of special healthcare waste. The key parameters of controlled incineration are summarized as
"TTT": combustion at a sufficiently high temperature (between 1,000C and 1,2000C in the
combustion chamber) for a long enough time, in a combustion chamber with sufficient turbulence
and oxygen for complete combustion to be achieved and problematic gases to be minimized.
Incinerators require skilled operators, extensive flue gas emission controls and, frequently,
imported spares and supplies. Properly controlled incineration is relatively expensive. Incineration
of wastes generates residues, including air emissions and ash. Environmental controls on
incinerators in developed countries have been tightened in recent years, principally because of
concerns over air emissions of pollutants such as dioxins and furans as well as heavy metals.
The technology of small-capacity incinerators, for use by a single medical facility, is often
rudimentary. These installations are not recommended, however, since they may constitute a
serious air pollution hazard to the surrounding area. World Health Organization recommends
closing down small incinerators that are not operating satisfactorily.
Incineration is an option for certain types of HCW (and is the preferred method for some
substances such as cytotoxins and other pharmaceuticals) but it needs to be carefully operated
and controlled. Regulatory agencies in the United States and the European Union have adopted
emissions limits for medical waste incinerators that include, among others, values for dioxins. It is
recommended that incinerators installed under any major project pay attention to national
regulations and/or look to the examples set in other countries such as in the EU Member States.
Lesotho has no limits yet, but a signatory to Stockholm convention and as such should follow the
guidelines thereof.  Therefore, any installation of incineration processes has to take into
consideration emission factors.
The recommended operating/burning time for normal conditions of the SA incinerators is 6 (six)
hours maximum per day. On basis of the daily generation averages of 189 kg and 140 kg, burned
over a period of 6 hours, the rate of burning is 31.5 kg/h and 23.3 kg/h. The General refuse
equivalent of hospital hazardous waste (based on maternity value) is 1.3. The implication is that
the required incinerator sizes would therefore be 40.95 kg/h and 30 kg/h respectively. Both these
values fall between the 50 LA and the 100 LA models of SA Incinerator Company. This model is
the one already installed in health facilities that have incinerators in Lesotho. An exception is the
49



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                                       March 2005
Queen II hospital. For Qll using extrapolated waste amount of 481 kg/day of all wastes, operating
over 6 hours gives a value of 104 kg/h, which corresponds to model 250 LA.
- \~~                  ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .,  s.
I,  ~          .        ,  :   
_     _
AP
F      _
--         -                 lAa?s1-14-
Figure 5: The incinerator at Queen Elizabeth Hospital, the largest Hospital in Maseru.
50



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                           March 2005
The SA Incinerator company makes incinerators in which the burning process is said to take place
in compliance with the South African Air Pollution Prevention act of 1965. The design is based on
the Los Angeles Air Pollution Control District Authority.  The important features of these
incinerators are:
Multiple chamber design
* Monolithic construction
* Built-in emission control
* Heated refractory screen
* Grit setting chamber
* Stainless steel arrestor
* Door operated draught breaker
* Heated primary and secondary air
* Automatic temperature control is available for oil and gas fired units.
Most of the spare parts are standard and can be obtained from local electrical or hardware shops
as well as from SA incinerator Company (Pty) Ltd in Johannesburg, South Africa.
There are four options that can be considered for incineration technology citing for Lesotho:
Option A:     One large capacity incinerator - centrally located and run by the municipality, to
treat all hazardous waste of the country.
Wherever it could be located it has implication on Very high transport costs for all centres, distance
and secure vehicular requirements and thus no incentive for that kind of treatment. The capital
cost for such a big capacity may also be high.
The spin-offs of this arrangement are that; It would be accessible to all other hazardous waste
generators in the country. Air pollution would be localized and emission controls could be
manageable.
Option B:     Demarcating the country into three zones (North, Central and South) and installing
three medium capacity incinerators to include municipal hazardous waste.
The major advantage of this option against option A would be lowered transportation costs. It is still
however undesirable to transport untreated waste over distances due to the risk it poses during
possible accidents and this would require increased management input.
Option C:     Small capacity incinerators at the central hospital of the HSA- for use of all health
centres in that HSA.
This situation has been practiced and is still partially operative. Risk of exposure to the general
public is minimized. It has the highest probability of success and cost containment. Sustainability
of this option depends only on proper and timely maintenance of the incinerators.
Option D:     All Health facilities equipped with appropriate capacity incinerators.
51



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                        March 2005
This may be an over investment for low benefits. Inconvertible fraction of waste is not enough to
warrant this capital and operation cost.
Incineration is known to produce various air polluting gases, the most dangerous of which are the
Persistent Organic Pollutants, namely, Dioxins and Furans. All signatories to the Stockholm
Convention have pledged to reduce their annual emissions of these POPs and to use the Best
Available Techniques in doing so. Incineration is still the Best Technology in destruction of
hazardous waste. The current waste management practices in Lesotho indicate that the emissions
without incineration are much higher than with incineration.  However emphasis is put on
incineration with GOOD Air Pollution Control system. This situation is indicated by the case study
analysis made in annex C.
6.4    Land filling
Land deposition of HCW is performed in the same manner as solid industrial wastes; that is, in a
pit excavated in mature municipal waste at the base of the working face and immediately covered
by a two-meter deep layer of fresh municipal waste. This is done at the same sanitary landfill
where municipal waste is disposed. Alternatively, a specially constructed small fenced landfill pit or
bounded area could be prepared on part of the site to receive only HCW. It should be covered
immediately with soil after each load. For added health protection and odour suppression, it is
suggested that lime be spread over the waste. In both cases it is essential to cover the HCW layer
well enough to prevent animals or scavengers from re-excavating it.
Land deposition or Land filling is considered as a "bottom of the list" option for disposal of
untreated HCW, and is only recommended when the economic situation of the country does not
permit access to environmentally safer technologies, such as the ones previously described, such
as incineration.
Lesotho is already in shortage of land, hence land depositing of HCW may not be an option for all
health facilities. This is currently being practiced in several HC centres around the country, though
not in an appropriate manner as described above. This practice poses the risk of contamination to
ground water as it is done indiscriminately The best option is the construction of central sanitary
landfill in each district. After incineration of special HCW the ash will be disposed together with the
general waste, this then calls for the best collection management. Options within the context of
Lesotho are discussed in the next section.
6.5    Other technical issues:
Transport of special healthcare waste on public roads is inevitable under any system designed to
treat and dispose of special healthcare waste outside the generating premises. Trained staff in a
dedicated vehicle with closed containers should as a minimum, carry out transportation of special
healthcare waste. Recommended design criteria for special healthcare waste transportation
vehicles are provided in the WHO handbook. These would be used to set up standards and
guidelines for licensing and monitoring.
Operation and maintenance of equipment and facilities is essential for proper waste
management. Good operation and maintenance requires trained and motivated staff, an adequate
52



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
supply of consumables and spares, and a sufficient ongoing budget. Assessment of these matters
must be a fundamental part of any decisions on choice of waste management treatment
technology.
All government hospitals are already equipped with incinerators, SA Incinerator types, models
50LA, lOOLA and 1000LA. All of these are currently not working or not being used for various
reasons including: No fuel, breakdown, need repairs and unavailability of parts, this was explained
by one operator saying that the Hospitals have a bad paying record hence suppliers have become
reluctant to supply without payment. This is the simple situation that needs to be rectified.
53



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
7.0    Determination of Disposal Sites
The disposal sites for Health care waste cannot be stand-alone sites unless they are within the
premises of the health facility, a very unsustainable situation. To this end, the overall country waste
management plans and programmes need to be evaluated.
Historically, according to the Sanitary Services and Refuse Removal regulations (1972), sanitary
and refuse removal services in Lesotho were limited to all districts headquarters and four other
major settlements, Matsieng, Morija, Roma and Maputsoe. Waste management was solely a
responsibility of the Ministry of Interior, until the commencement of the Urban Government act
(1983), which became operational only in 1986, through the legal notice No 44 of 1986. Services
were then limited to institutional housing premises, particularly government ones, this tendency is
still the dominant one in most districts.
After 1986, waste management became part of the broader environmental concern, with policy
aspects entrusted to the then non-constituted National Environmental Council (NEC), later with
National Environment Secretariat (NES). Specific functions of the provision of sanitary services
and refuse removal in urban areas were allocated to what would be urban governments (urban
councils and boards) as identified in section 5 of Schedule 1 of the Urban Government Act.
Unfortunately the Act has only been partially implemented. Only Maseru has to some extend
succeeded to establish an urban government. In all other major settlements, the Ministry of Local
government is still responsible for sanitary and refuse removal services through the offices of
resident town clerks.
Although the Urban Government Act empowers the Minister responsible for Local Government to
establish local authorities for efficient control and service delivery in urban areas, such powers
have only been exercised in Maseru. In all other gazzeted towns, town clerks have limited duties
such as:
* Collection and removal of waste
* Street cleaning
* Maintenance of urban roads
Supervision of urban markets, abattoirs, vendors, etc. and
* The issuance of urban sites and building permits
Town clerks and their staff form part of the District Secretary's staff. They generally lack authority
to make decisions, and in the execution of their duties, do not follow any formal work plans. Due to
limited financial, human and equipment resources their overall functioning is crippled to the level of
non-existence in some towns.
In this state of affairs, waste has to be disposed of, be it harmless or hazardous. Hence the town
clerks chose the disposal sites on the basis of cultural norm, dongas or disused quarries. There
are no proper sanitary landfills but open dumpsites. Disposal is performed as uncontrolled open
dumping on sites, which are normally situated on the borders of the town. In most cases these
dump sites are along or near natural watercourses, aquifers and too close to settlements. Health
Care Facilities are some of the important institutions in terms of waste generation for National
54



Health Care Waste ManaQement Plan                                        March 2005
Waste Management Planning. Local government authorities should consider these areas equitably
like CBD - commercial area and domestic areas, where they collect. As it was pointed out in
Section 1.4, waste management in Lesotho has not taken off to any planned level as yet.
Proposals are underway to build a new landfill close to Maseru that would cater for the greater
Maseru Town and neighboring peri-urban towns.
The key actors in these endeavors have been Environment and Local Government; Health has not
substantially indicated the real need - probably due to the trust that the counter ministries will do
their part. It has become evident, and is in effect imperative that Health participation be at even a
higher level than the few role players.
Health Care Waste Management is not only a matter of Environmental Pollution control, but also
even more a matter of disease control, and better health for all.
Table 6: Roles and Responsibilities of various actors in Waste Management
Institutions         Role/responsibility in Relation to Waste  Limitations in Health Care Waste
management                            management
Central
Government
MTEC                 Policy and  advisory role on general Lesotho Environment Authority not yet
Environmental issues, including waste  established, therefore Lesotho
management                            Environment Act not yet operational.
MoLG                 Implementation of Local Government and  Lack of financial resources for waste
Urban Government Act, including waste  management.
removal and sanitation services.
MoHSW                Monitoring of economic activities towards  Lack of sufficient personnel or unit
good health maintenance. Ensuring that dedicated in waste management.
no nuisance exist in public areas.    Unclear role of Environmental Health
Division.
Regional
Town Clerks          Management of waste in all urban areas  Lack of financial resources and
other than municipalities.            personnel for waste management,
sanitary landfills, plant and equipment.
Urban Councils       Management of waste in municipalities
(currently  only  Maseru  city  is  a  Lack of financial resources for waste
municipality)                         management, sanitary landfills, plant
and equipment.
Each district center has a designated dumpsite, whose distances range between 500m and 1.7 km
from town boundaries.
55



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
7.1    National Official Dump Sites
The requirement of terms of reference under the Determination of Disposal Sites is that:
"If site for disposal exists, collect all existing plans for suitable sites to be considered for the
locations of the treatment facilities and review general transport and traffic systems relative to
appropriate sites."
There are disposal sites all over the country, those that are sporadically used and those that are
used in a more official manner. These are the ones so called 'official dumpsites" These sites were
selected by default in most districts. They are just the convenient places to dump in the absence of
proper landfills. There were no standard criteria used in their determination, as a result, they are
all known to be highly unsuitable by all standards.
These site are discussed below, mainly indicating their unsuitability, on the basis of simple
preliminary guideline used by the National Environment Secretariat (Annex B)
MOKHOTLONG
The dumpsite covers an area of about 2000 m2, situated along a stream that connects to
Mokhotlong River, about 30 m downstream. It is within a soft-top soil valley, hence a high risk to
both ground and surface waters. The health facility is about 1.5 km uphill, well out of town
population. However, there is a public route adjacent to the site where villagers pass into town.
Since the site is not fenced or secured; no management of any sort, scavenging is highly probable.
For the site to be maintained as a dumpsite, the ground will have to be well lined and a retention
pond be constructed downstream. There is enough material alongside for construction and burying
during operation. However the site is undesirable since it is very close to natural water source (the
nearby stream and Mokhotlong river).
THABA-TSEKA
Waste is dumped at an open space that is
located above a valley whose water joins the
main stream. All sorts of waste is dumped
there including medical waste. This is an
open space covering an area of about 2000
m2.   The top soils are loam, rich for
cultivation. There is no reparation done for                                   - -
disposal, this just a large area that is covered
with scattered waste. There is also no                                  1 207. 2004
coverage of dumped waste hence waste is
easily blown by wind.
Figure 6: The waste dumping site at Thaba-
Tseka.
56



Health Care Waste Manaqiement Plan                                       March 2005
QACHA'S NEK
Excavated dyke (bore pit) was formerly used as an illegal dumping site, but has now been made
official by the office of Town Clerk. All sorts of waste are dumped there including medical waste.
The dumpsite is too close to the houses occupied by prison warders. This therefore may lead to
scavenging. Waste is dumped throughout the quarried dyke and not at the specific place. The site
is at the high point relative to the town, which may increase the risk of ground water contamination
down stream.
BUTHA-BUTHE
This is the one dumpsite whose location is suitable since it is far from the villages and the town
center. It had been properly fenced during the LHDA operations; the fence had been vandalized
however. The area was also a gravel quarry; hence there is abundant material for landfill
operation. This dumpsite only requires good management.
HLOTSE
The dumpsite in Hlotse is just an open space with no clearly defined boundaries. However, the
area that is being used currently is about 3000m2. It is situated on a hillside about 1 Km from Hlotse
river. The site is about 2Km from the village of Sebothoane, however there are three households
located 500m below the site. The waste disposed at this site comes from the Town of Hlotse and
the surrounding residential areas. The furthest waste generation point (end of Mankoaneng Village)
is about 5Km away and the nearest (Government Garage) is 500m away.
Though the site is on a hillside sloping to Hlotse River, it is located on flat narrow but long strip of
land. There is no flooding occurring in this area. The site is about 1.5Km from Mandela road and
the flatness of the site allows the easy access of vehicles to the site.
MAPUTSOE
The current dumpsite of Maputsoe is a rather shallow cleavage that resulted from quarry mining. It
is on a small hill about 200m from Mokota-koti River and half a kilometer from Main North 1 road.
The site for disposal is not fenced, therefore its boundaries are not well defined. As a result, waste
is dumped not at one point, but anywhere around the cleavage. The site is always full of
scavengers who select good off-cuts to us them in activities that will earn them income. About
200m away, on the north side of the site is a secondary school, which is also not fenced. The
community of Ha Nyenye is along Main North 1 road on the east of the site. On the northeast of the
site, there are numerous textile industries. On the West side there are WASA stabilization ponds,
which are situated along Mohokare River.
The high proportion of the waste found on this site consists of off-cuts from the industries. Also
found there are cans and bottles of beverages probably from the hotel. However this is supposed
to cater for the whole town of Maputsoe including the surrounding residential areas and the near
by villages like St. Monica's. The business center of Maputsoe (where all healthcare facilities are
located) is about 5Km and furthest residential area (Ha Nyenye) is about 7Km away.
57



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
There  have been a number of complaints lodged to the town clerk, especially for the nearby
school, about the waste that is blown around. They do not object to use of the site for disposal, but
they would like it to be developed as it is currently unsightly.
TEYA-TEYANENG
The old dumpsite is right in the middle of a village. This was relocated without proper rehabilitation.
Although it was said that the new dumpsite was in use, very little waste was observed at the place
and waste was not put in the pit rather it was dumped at the mouth of the pit. Because of this level
of activity, at this site, it could not be conclusive where dumping is actually done. The new site is
about 2 km out of town, is adequately sited away from population, there is enough earth material
for covering waste. This only needs to be developed into a proper landfill and be managed
properly.
QUTHING
The dumpsite is properly located being far from the neighbourhood and in an unused quarry; the
problem is that dumping is done outside the pit. Just in an open space. The dumpsite is not
restricted and as a result the dumping is uncontrolled. Site is located in an area that has been
allocated for residential development, and sites have already been allocated.
MOHALE'S HOEK
In Mohales' Hoek there is no official disposal site; people dump waste just about anywhere. But the
most victimized place is the stream that runs between the taxi rank and the town and it goes all the
way to Makhaleng River. The area is so close to the hospital and the public traffic into town.
MAFETENG - 10
The official disposal site of Mafeteng is about 2000 m2 located in the area commonly known as
"Sepetlele". It is situated on a gentle slope along Lekoantlana River that leads to Mohokare River,
and alongside WASA stabilization ponds. It is half a kilometer below Mafeteng hospital. The
nearest village, which is across the river, is about lkm away. People from the neighbouring
villages collect water from the same river.
This site carries waste collected from the business community of Mafeteng, which is located at
distance of 3km from the site. It also carries waste from the residential areas, the furthest being
at a distance of 5km away. This site was selected by the town clerk in collaboration with the
Department of Environmental Health, the Urban Board, and representatives of the business
community and also with representatives of the residential community. Thus, this site has been
accepted by the whole community of Mafeteng Town.
MASERU -11
In Maseru town there is one official dump-site located within the village of Ha Tsosane. It caters for
all waste collected from the city centre, the industrial areas and the residential areas that get refuse
removal services. Though this site is protected with fencing and has a guard, one will find
58



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
scavengers collecting metallic substances that are sold for recycling to make a living. There is a
continuous cloud of smoke coming from burning of waste and spontaneous combustion due to
methane production . This smoke decreases visibility in Ha Tsosane area, particularly in winter.
The location of the site is critical as it is on a
sloping area within a catchment of Maqalika
Dam which supplies domestic water in the
whole of Maseru town. It is also within the        ._
community with several houses just a few
meters away. Apart from  that there are
possibilities of groundwater contamination as
the site itself is a cleavage that resulted from
quarry mining.
12 02 '2004
Figure 7: Emissions from the uncontrolled buming of all types of waste at Tsosane dumpsite in
Maseru.
7.2    Healthcare Waste Water
There are four streams of healthcare wastewater and these are from Out Patients Department
(OPD) and wards, Pharmacy, X-ray section and from the Laboratory. Wastewater from OPD and
wards can be expected to be of similar quality to domestic wastewater, but it may contain
hazardous components. The concern is on microbial pathogens introduced into the wastewater by
patients being treated for enteric diseases. This is also the case with laboratory wastewater where
these pathogens can be introduced by samples taken from patients.
Chemicals in wastewater are of lesser concern as wastewater from other points inside and outside
the health facility compound dilutes them. However, there are some chemicals that will still pose
risks to the environment even if their concentration in wastewater is lower. For example, silver
which is introduced to wastewater stream by development of films used for X-rays will accumulate
in bodies of aquatic organisms even when found in low concentrations in water. In the same way
Mercury that comes from dental amalgams and broken thermometers find way into water streams.
This calls for special attention to be paid to such chemicals.
Quality of Healthcare Wastewater
There has been no monitoring on quality of wastewater from healthcare facilities in Lesotho. But
when using the current practice of waste management in different sections of the facilities (OPD
and wards, pharmacy, laboratory and X-ray) as the determinant of the polluter sections,
OPDMWards and X-ray sections were found to be the major polluters. Lesotho is prone to
outbreaks of enteric diseases like typhoid and diarrhea which introduce enteric pathogens in
wastewater. X-ray section also introduces into the sewer line the chemicals used to develop the
films and which contain silver from these films.
Pharmacy is assumed to be introducing minimal pollution to wastewater as all the pharmaceutical
waste (including liquid medication) is incinerated. The laboratory is introducing both the enteric
59



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
pathogens and chemicals to wastewater but their concentrations in wastewater are low because
only small quantities of samples and chemicals or solvents are used. And most of the waste from
this section (including the analyzed and unanalyzed samples and outdated chemicals) is
incinerated.
Current Methods of Treatment and Disposal
As mentioned earlier, WASA is the only institution in the country that is mandated to provide
services of sewage and wastewater collection and treatment. But due to the difficult terrain of the
country, sparse location of settlement areas and lack of sufficient finances, most settlement areas
do not have access to these services. Thus, most of the health facilities in the country are not
connected to WASA sewer lines and have therefore resorted to use of septic tanks and pit-latrines
for disposal of wastewater.
According to WHO guidelines (WHO, 1999) healthcare wastewater may be discharged into the
municipal sewers if
-  These facilities are efficiently operated and can remove 95% of bacteria as well as toxic
chemicals, pharmaceuticals, radionuclides, cytotoxic drugs and antibiotics in sewage; and
if
-  The sludge resulting is treated by anaerobic digestion to ensure removal of helminthes and
other enteric pathogens.
-  Or in a case where the public sewer does not meet these standards, the wastewater
should be pretreated.
Unfortunately WASA facilities are simple oxidation ponds that do not meet the above-mentioned
standards and on the other hand the pre-treatment facilities that are required for this kind of
wastewater are highly capital intensive and impose high costs of operation. The only alternative is
to adopt a system that will prevent introduction of pollutants of concern into healthcare wastewater.
This system should also apply to all health facilities that are not connected to WASA.
Management Plan
To prevent introduction of unwanted pollutants in healthcare sewage, the following tasks will have
to be implemented:
High Capacity Health Facilities and Other Facilities in Urban Areas
-   Excreta from patients with enteric diseases, during epidemics may be collected in buckets
for chemical disinfection before they can be disposed into municipal sewers
-  Excreta from patients being treated with cytotoxic drugs may be collected separately for
incineration
-   Pharmaceutical and laboratory chemicals should be incinerated (with lids of their
containers open to prevent explosions) instead of disposing them into the sewer lines.
-  All infectious samples from the laboratory should be incinerated.
-  The fixer from the X-ray section should be collected and sold to companies that recover
silver, while developer should be sprayed in incinerators for incineration.
-  Wastewater from different streams of the healthcare facility should be monitored regularly
for improvement of its quality.
60



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                            March 2005
Small Capacity Health Centres in Rural Areas
The assumption is that these facilities will not run laboratories and X-ray sections, and will also not
treat patients who require cytotoxic drugs, instead they will refer them to hospitals as is the
situation currently. These facilities use pit-latrines and septic tanks in which the infectious anatomic
waste and excreta will later be buried, and these methods of disposal are sufficient to contain
pathogens and prevent spread of disease, provided they are appropriately sited and well
constructed. In this case the only water contaminants of concern will be from the pharmaceutical
products. Therefore all pharmaceutical waste will be collected and transported to the hospitals
servicing the HSA for incineration.
61



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
8.0    Private Sector Participation
Private sector participation in healthcare waste management is possible at different levels. At the
simplest level, the private sector may be subcontracted solely to provide waste transportation
services to individual healthcare facilities. At the other end of the spectrum, the private sector may
sign a contract to Build, Operate, and Transfer (BOT) or Build, Own, and Operate (BOO) an entire
HCWM treatment or disposal facility.
The private sector can play a significant role in providing waste treatment and disposal services if
the contract establishes a clear set of rules about division of responsibilities between the parties
involved (i.e. regulatory authority, healthcare facility, and private operator). The essential conditions
for private sector participation are transparency, competition, and accountability. Adequate budget
provision is also required at the healthcare facility or the local authority level to pay the private
operator.
In the three countries described below, private contractors play differing roles in HCW
management:
Malaysia:
Following a strategy for healthcare waste management developed by the Ministry of Health,
Peninsula Malaysia is divided into three HCW management zones. Each zone has contracted a
concession to a private company for 15 years. Within the concession zone, the private contractor is
obliged (and restricted) to provide bins and bags for collection, internal collection and storage,
external transport, and a central localized incinerator for special HCW generated at MoHSW
hospitals. The three contractors can compete throughout Malaysia for handling of special HCW
from private hospitals. The contractors must meet Malaysian standards for segregation,
transportation, and treatment. The most stringent standard is treatment--all special healthcare
waste must be incinerated and incinerator emissions must meet standards equivalent to those of
the European Union (EU).
Republic of South Africa:
The province of Kwa-Zulu/Natal (eastern part of South Africa) has one centrally located incinerator
for treatment of all special HCW generated in the province. The incinerator is located at the largest
landfill of Durban and is operated by the city of Durban. Transportation of special HCW from
healthcare facilities to the incinerator is carried out under individual contracts between each
hospital and a private licensed contractor.
Mexico:
Mexico City has developed a free market for handling of healthcare waste. The market for HCW
management is open to any private licensed contractor. So far, at least fourteen contractors are
handling HCW in Mexico City's metropolitan area, either through autoclaving, radio wave irradiation
or incineration. Contracts with hospitals range from one to five years in duration.
62



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
Lesotho can adopt any of the above modes of private participation; however, there exist no
systems as yet for such participation. First, there should be an established proper disposal sites,
then systems of licensing and monitoring. Local cleaning companies are still focused on office
cleaning and gardens; there are no serious operators in hazardous waste management. This then
drives the privatization process towards foreign companies as has been done in communications
and utilities sectors.
8.1    Public-Private Partnership Options for Lesotho
On the basis of the above experiences and the economic driving forces, it is highly commendable
to link all potentially viable activities to both public and private sector. The public sector has
already taken strides in setting down the basis for this partnership. This basis is seen in various
economic developmental initiatives, namely, Vision 2020, PRSP and millennium Goals.
Lesotho Vision 2020
In 2000, the country took a policy decision to formulate a vision to provide for a long-term
perspective within which national short to medium-term plans could be formulated. The vision
statement reads:
"By the year 2020 Lesotho shall be a stable democracy, a united and prosperous nation at peace
with itself and its neighbours. It shall have a healthy and well-developed human resource base. Its
economy will be strong; its environment well managed and its technology well established"
Section 3.2.6 of the vision document acknowledges that the country is faced with the challenges of
implementing the ratified conventions and treaties for sustainable development. To this end,
strengthening institutions responsible for natural resources management, developing and
effectively implementing land management systems as well as strengthening overall environmental
management, advocacy and awareness among Basotho, are seen as vehicles to realizing "a well
managed environment"
The Implementation and monitoring Matrix identifies eight strategic actions towards this endeavor.
These are to:
Strengthen coordination of institutions responsible for natural resource management
* Protect air, soil and water quality
Develop and implement proper land management systems
Preserve and conserve biodiversity and heritage
Improve institutional capacity to implement the Environment Act
Reduce over-harvesting of natural resources
Improve effluent and solid waste management systems
Promote use of renewable energy resources.
63



Health Care Waste ManaQement Plan                                       March 2005
Poverty Reduction Strategies
The government of Lesotho, through a long consultative and participatory process developed a
Poverty reduction Strategy. It commits itself, over the next three years to begin systematic
implementation of the most important priorities.
The overarching development goals of the PRSP is to provide a broad based improvement in the
standard of welfare for the current generation of Basotho, without compromising opportunities for
future generations. The PRSP is built on three inter-connected approaches, namely
.  Rapid employment creation through establishment of an operating environment that
facilitates economic growth.
*  Delivery of poverty-targeted programmes that empower the poor and vulnerable and
enable them to secure access to income opportunities; and
.  Ensuring that policies and legal frameworks are conducive to full implementation of
priorities, that bureaucratic constraints are removed, and that the productivity of the public
sector improves.
The process has identified eight (8) priority areas and two critical crosscutting issues. Topped by
employment creation, the seventh is to manage and to conserve the environment, and the
government is committed to implement specific strategies in this area, which include:
* Promotion of environmental conservation with improved production
Strengthening management of solid and waste water as well as air pollution
Strengthening curriculum and media programmes on environmental education
Reduction of loss of bio-diversity by implementing the Maloti-drakensberg Transfrontier
park
. Addressing range management issues by establishing and/or revitalizing grazing
associations in collaboration new local government authorities
* Improving the legal, policy and institutional framework, giving particular attention to the
capacity of National Environment Secretariat (NES) and implementation of Environment
Act 2001.
The Millennium Development Goals
Lesotho is a signatory to the Millennium Declaration, along with all members of the Unite Nations.
It has renewed its commitment to freeing all people from the abject and demoralizing condition of
extreme poverty and to promote human development.
The eight goals and their national targets may be outlined as follows:
Goal 1:Combat HIV/AIDS
The overall target is to halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIV and AIDS by 2007
Goal 2: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger
In this goal the targets are:
* To halve, between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of people whose income is less than one
dollar a day And
64



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
* To halve the proportion of people who suffer from hunger between 1990 and 2020
Goal 3: Achieve universal primary education
To ensure that children everywhere (boys and girls alike) will be able to complete a full course of
primary schooling by 2007 is the major target.
Goal 4: Promote gender equality and empower women
The elimination of gender disparity in primary and secondary education preferably by 2005 and to
all levels of education by 2015 is the target.
Goal 5: Reduce child mortality
The target here is to reduce the under-five mortality rate by two thirds between 1990 and 2020.
Goal 6: Improve maternal health
Reduction of maternal mortality ratio by two thirds between 1990 and 2015 is the target.
Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability
Here the target is to integrate the principles of sustainable development into country policies and
programmes and to reverse the loss of environmental resources. And
To halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to safe drinking water and basic
sanitation by 2015.
Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for development
There are several targets in this goal, all of which center around bilateral and multilateral
agreements in trade, health and economy.
The country has integrated these targets within the broader strategies as found in the Vision 2020
and the Poverty reduction strategy paper.
The becoming Health Care Waste Management plan is one opportunity for the country/government
to show the commitment to these initiatives through strong private sector participation and
involvement. There are two levels at which private sector could participate.
1. Paying for their pollution contribution, in order to capacitate the local authorities in
provision of waste management services.
2. Providing services in waste collection, awareness and training as well as disposal, and
even managing the landfills.
The private sector in Lesotho, particularly in the area of waste management is very
underdeveloped. As a result, the real possibility of participation as service providers was not easily
accessible for assessment.
Within this analysis, the three principles are engaged, namely Polluter Pays Principle, Best
Practices and Cost Recovery.
65



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
The situation in Lesotho is such that, due to increasing poverty level and unemployment, the
majority of the people are unable to afford health care. Even in this state of subsidy, several
patients cannot get treatment beyond simple dressing and drugs. The generation of waste during
the Health care delivery should be a cost to the receiver of service. The implication is an increment
in the already unaffordable charges. One way or another, imagining a situation where each patient
is given the responsibility of disposing of his/her waste in an environmentally sound manner, there
would be costs on their part. This justifies that a sound waste management system has to be paid
for. The question is what should be the share of cost from patients, in terms of charges relative to
the share of the institution, which is not also a public entity.
The other supporting side to public-private involvement is the job creation aspect of it. "there is
cash in trash" The overall solid waste management of Lesotho should overhauled to allow re-use
and recycling of suitable materials. Organizations for collection, segregation and recycling should
be set up through government initiatives to kick start public participation. There are several Non-
Governmental Organizations that should be engaged in all these endevours.
8.2    Cost-Benefit Analysis
Implementing a national strategy is a gradual process that often requires a minimum of one to two
years.
An often-important role for national authorities is to provide technical and financial assistance to
lower-level authorities in implementing the national strategy. The Ministry of Environment and
Ministry of Health may also help finance new waste regional treatment facilities when new
healthcare waste management regulations are introduced. But these ministries are less likely to
provide national subsidies for operation and maintenance of regional treatment facilities. Those
generating the waste, i.e. the healthcare facilities, should absorb these costs based on the "polluter
pays" principle. However, it should again be noted that recovering the full cost of treatment and
disposal might create incentives for indiscriminate disposal. Therefore, enforcement of regulations
is also essential, and financial incentives for healthcare facilities to improve their HCW
management may be warranted.
In Lesotho, the most polluters are the government institutions. This scenario can work both
positively and negatively to the overall HCWM objective.
Positive in the sense that HCWM can be intrinsically included in the Health sector budgetary
allocation, in which case the plan would then be implemented without any capacity hiccups.
Negatively, if the government does not specifically allocate funds for HCWM, while the health
centers are still operating and polluting, under current conditions where implementing agencies,
like local government are not capacitated and payments due are ignored by health.
In the final analysis, the real benefit of proper HCWM shall be evident in the general national waste
management mobilization. The cost to the nation can be absorbed in taxes, otherwise the level of
willingness to pay for waste in this country is still very low.
66



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                         March 2005
9.0    Training Needs and Awareness Assessment and Programs
9.1    Health Centers
On consultation with different health facilities, gaps of knowledge in medical waste management
were identified in different cadres of facilities personnel. All of the identified gaps seem to be
common in all health facilities, therefore the proposed training and awareness activities are meant
for all facilities, though the training may differ for different cadres.
9.1.1  Health Center Management
The management of health center is responsible for planning, budgeting, mobilization of resources
and to ensure that all departments of the center are operational. In hospitals they key people in
management are the District Medical Officer (or otherwise known as Superintendent), the Senior
Nursing Officer (otherwise known as Matron) and the Administrator. For other centres, the key
people are the manager of the hospital (who can be the church leader or the practice owner) and
the nursing clinician or nursing sister. From the survey, it has been found that the centers have no
budget for waste management, any resources required for this activity are bought from operational
costs budget.
Most of these people understand to a moderate level, the risks that medical waste can have on
environment. However they have constraints in appropriate management of this waste which
include among others:
-  Lack of finances for purchasing and maintenance of appropriate equipment,
-  Lack of staff trained in waste management and its technology
-  Prioritization of other medical resources like medications,
-   Pressure of attending too many patients and finding segregation a time consuming activity.
As a result, the management of health facilities need to be given training on why waste
management should also be given a high priority and the resources and skills required for a center
to manage its waste appropriately.
9.1.2 Medical Staff
Medical staff constitutes medical doctors, nurses, nurse assistants, pharmacists, technicians,
laboratory technicians, dentists and other health center staff that generate medical waste. And this
is the group of hospital staff that knows the risks linked to medical waste and has been trained on
how to handle it at generation point. Despite this knowledge, they do not practice the principle of
segregate of waste at source, and this shows that they lack knowledge of appropriate waste
management in a broader picture.
Therefore they need to be given on-site training on segregation of waste at source and treatment of
hazardous waste. They should also be given a general knowledge of appropriate medical waste
management as well as the risks of inappropriate management including cost implications. This
67



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                                      March 2005
information can be given during the staff professional workshops and through the pamphlets and
posters.
9.1.3   Waste handlers
This is the group of staff that did not get formal education on management of medical waste and
risks associated with it. However, they are the ones given the responsibility of managing and
handling this waste. While they do not have sufficient knowledge for this responsibility, they also do
not have appropriate resources like equipment and protective clothing for handling this kind of
waste. In Lesotho the waste handlers in health centres are;
- The cleaners who remove waste from its point of generation
- The porters who sometimes transport it to point incineration or disposal and
- The laborers who operate incinerators and dispose the resulting waste
According to WHO [1999] the minimal training for waste management operators should include:
- information on the risks associated with the handling of health-care waste;
- procedures for dealing with spillages and other accidents;
- instructions on the use of protective clothing
In addition to this, the waste handlers in Lesotho should be trained on appropriate ways of handling
waste, and the points to be emphasized are shown in Box 1 below.
Box 1. Training of waste handlers; points to be emphasized. (Extracted from Pruss,1999).
*   Check that waste storage bags and containers are sealed; no bags should be removed unless properly
labeled and securely sealed to prevent spillages.
.   Bags should be picked by the neck only. They should be put down in such a way that they can again be
picked up by the neck for further handling. Manual handling of waste bags should be minimized whenever
possible.
*   Waste bags should not touch the body during handling and collectors should not attempt to carry too many
bags at one time - probably no more than two.
*   To avoid puncture or other damage, waste bags should not be thrown or dropped.
*   Sharps may occasionally puncture the side or bottom of a polypropylene container; the container should
therefore be carried by its handle and should not be supported underneath with the free hand.
.   Bags for hazardous health-care waste and for general waste should not be mixed, butt segregated
throughout handling; hazardous waste should be placed only in specified storage areas.
*   Appropriate cleaning and disinfection procedures should be followed in the event of accidental spillage; any
such incident should be reported immediately to the responsible member of staff.
. Adequate protective clothing should be worn during all waste handling operations.
68



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                                March 2005
Table 7: Training for Health Centres
Group       F         Duties                Type of Training/     |     Method of Training         TraininglService        Frequency of
|_____ _  _Awareness       J                                   Providers         traininglawareness
Management
Planners,            -   To Plan and budget      -  Justification  for      -  Training Workshop         -   NHTC               -  Every year
Administrators,          for   the   health         appropriate
Financial                centres                     medical    waste
Controllers          -   To allocate finances        management
to different            -   Resources    and       -   Training Workshop         -  Consultant         -   Every year
departments of the         other requirements
health centres             for    appropriate
medical     waste
l_____________ _           imanagement                 _                             __
District Medical     -   To over see that all [  -  Courses given to planners, administrators and financial controllers
Officers, Senior         health service
Nursing Officers         divisions at health     -  Appropriate             -   For nursing officers      -  NHTC               -   Once
centers are                 management     of          this should be part of
functional                 different types of          their curriculum
medical waste
-   Refresher course for
both Medical officers
and Nursing officers      -   NHTC              -   Every 5 years
Medical Staff
Doctors              -   To carry out            -   Segregation and        -   On site training,   [     -   NHTC              -   Every 5 years
surgeries and some          handling of medical
dressings                  waste                   -   Pamphlets, posters        -  Health             -   Every 5 years
.  1l  10  .  il  j   Education  j6
69



Health Care Waste ManaQement Plan                                                March 2005
Group                 Duties                Type of Training/     [     Method of Training      |  Training/Service        Frequency of
l______________ l                                   Awareness          [                                   Providers         training/awareness
Nurses               -   To attend to the        -  Segregation and         -   It should be part of     -   NHTC              -   Once
patients and carry         handling of medical        their training
out all necessary          waste                       curriculum
activities like                                    -   On site training         -   Consultant        -   Every 5 years
injection, dressings,
midwifery, etc.                                    -   Pamphlets, posters       -   Health            -   Every 5 years
Education
-   Treatment of           -   Workshop and on-site      -   Consultant        -   Every 5 years
Medical waste              training
Pharmacy             -   To dispense             -  Segregation and         -   It should be part of     -   NHTC               -  Once
Technicians              medications                 handling of                their training
pharmaceutical             curriculum
waste                  -   Pamphlets, posters
-   Health
Education
-   Treatment of           -   Workshop and on-site      -   Consultant        -   Every 5 years
different types of         training
pharmaceutical
waste                  -   Pamphlets, posters        -   Health            -   Every 5 years
Education
Laboratory           -   To carry out            -   Segregation and        -   It should be part of      -  NHTC               -  Once
Technicians              medical laboratory          handling of                their training
analyses                    laboratory waste           curriculum
-   Pamphlets, posters        -   Health            -   Every 5 year
Education
70



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                                March 2005
Group      ]          Duties                Type of Training/     [     Method of Training     ]   Training/Service         Frequency of
Awareness           l __                                Providers       J training/awareness
-   Treatment      of      -   Workshop and on-site      -   Consultant    - Every 5 years
different types of         training
laboratory waste       -   Pamphlets, posters        -   Health
Education
Waste Handlers
Cleaners             -   Removal of waste        -   Risk  linked   to      -   Workshops                 -  Consultant         -   Every 5 years
for its generation         medical waste           -   Pamphlets                 -   Health            -   Every 5 years
points                                                                              Education
-   Transportation from
source or storage to I
incineration            -  Appropriate             -   Workshops                 -  Consultant         -   Every 5 years
-   Removal      from          management     of       -   Pamphlets                -   Health             -  Every 5 years
incinerator    to          different types of                                       Education
storage or disposal         medical waste
site                    -   Handling of waste      -   On-site training          -  Consultant         -   Every 5 years
at        different
stations/points        -   Pamphlets                 -   Health            -   Every 5 years
Education He
Incinerator          -   Collection of waste [   -  Same training as given to cleaners
Operators                from storage            -  Appropriate             -   On-site training          -   Incinerator      -    On recruitment
-   Operation  of the          operation and           -   Pamphlets                    supplier         or Annually or as the
incinerator                 Maintenance of                                       -   Incinerator      necessity arises
-   Removal of bumed           Incinerators                                             supplier
waste        from
incinerator    to
storage or disposal
point             !!                           __                          !L                      __
71



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                              March 2005
Group                 Duties               Type of Training/    1     Method of Training        TraininglService  ]     Frequency of
l_____________             l _____________________Awareness  J __                       Providers      j  traininglawareness
Other  laborers      -   Removal of waste      -   Same training as given to cleaners                                  .
handling waste          from different points  -   Burial disposal        -  Onsite training       - Consultant             -   Every 5 years
-   Disposal of waste         Method
72



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
9.2    Communities
From the survey done on communities and the scavengers themselves, it has been found out that
their level of knowledge on risks that medical waste exposes them to risk is very limited. They
understand that they may get infected with HIV and AIDS if their bodies get in contact with blood.
However, they do not know the risks associated with other medical waste like expired medicine, x-
ray negatives, etc, and they also do not know how medical waste that comes from households
should be managed.
The lack of adequate knowledge places people at high risk, and this calls for their education on
risks and management of medical waste. According to Pruss (1999) the objectives of public
education on health-care waste are:
-  To prevent exposure to health-care waste and related health hazards; this exposure may
be voluntary, in the case of scavengers, or accidental as a consequence of unsafe
disposal methods.
-  To create awareness and foster responsibility among hospital patients and visitors to
health-care establishments regarding hygiene and health care waste management.
-  To inform the public about the risks linked to health-care waste, focusing on people living
or working in close proximity to, or visiting health-care establishments, families of patients
treated at home and scavengers on waste dumps.
Within the MoHSW, there is a department of Health Education that is responsible for awareness
building to the public and personnel of health sector on all issues of health. This is the department
that should be given responsibility of raising awareness to the public about risks of medical waste.
There is also PHELA, (meaning LIVE) an NGO that uses mass media to promote positive behavior
towards health related issues in Lesotho. These two institutions can use joint efforts to educate the
public and the health workers on appropriate management of medical waste.
Due to difference of people in levels of literacy, accessibility of their location and their access to
mass media, as well as preferences to the type of media, different methods have to be used to
reach all people in awareness building. The suggested methods are presented in Table 8 below.
73



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
Table 8: Methods to be used to raise awareness to different target groups.
TARGET GROUP           METHOD OF AWARENESS            RESPONSIBLE AND
BUILDING                 PARTICIPATING
INSTITUTIONS
Population in Urban Areas   Radio, TV, Pamphlets       Health Education, Phela,
Peri-Urban Areas            Radio, TV, Written materials,  Health Education, Phela,
Public Gatherings           Chieftainship
Population in Rural Areas   Public gatherings, Radio,  Health Education,
Pamphlets                   Chieftainship,
Herd boys                   Public gatherings          Health Education,
Students                    School Curriculum,         Ministry of Education, Health
Written Materials           Education, NCDC
Population within hospital  Billboards erected at storage  Health Education, MoLG
areas and disposal sites    and disposal areas
9.3    Institutions and Agencies
There are institutions that are major stakeholders in medical waste management as they have
roles to play in management of waste in general.
Table 9. Institutions to be trained for participation in Medical Waste Management.
Institution            Role in Waste       Section to be Trained         Training
Management
Ministry of Tourism,       External monitoring,  All officers in EIA and  Administration and
Environment and Culture   Advisory, Enforcement   Pollution control Division  enforcement in HC Waste
management
Ministry of Local Government  Implementers of waste  Environmental Health  Best Environmental
management             Officers, Town Clerks,  Practices, and procedures,
Waste Collectors,      Best Available Technologies
Planners              in HCWM, admin and
enforcement
Ministry of Natural Resources  Monitoring water quality  Water Quality Analysts  Inspection and monitoring
- Energy and Water Affairs                                              for HCW pollutants
Ministry of Labour and     Monitoring occupational  Inspectors          Best practices and
Employment                 health and safety                            procedures in Health Care
delivery. Administration and
enforcement of regulations
Ministry of Finance and    National planning and  Planners,              Integrating environmental
Development Planning       development activities  Financial Controllers  management in national
development programmes
Non-Governmental           Monitoring, Awareness  All relevant and       Participatory methods in
Organizations              raising and public    functional NGO's        Environmental
participation                                 management. Rights and
responsibilities of the public.
74



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
10.0 Summary of HCWM Plan for Lesotho
10.1 Preconditions and Reservations
The described Health Care Waste management Plan shall be recognized as a proposal, which
recognizes that HCW should be managed within the scope of National Waste Management
Strategies, because Health care facilities are important category of institutions generating
hazardous waste.
Secondly, The plan is based on the three initial components being undertaken and consensus
reached among all stakeholders regarding;
National Health Care Waste Management Workshop, should start the process
National Health Care Waste management Committee is established,
. Three major role players, namely Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Ministry of
Tourism, Environment and Culture and Ministry of Local Government should commit to
fund the plan and support the HCWM committee and
Thirdly, the National Waste Management Plan and Strategies should be publicized and
implemented by the three major role players, where at least three sanitary landfills are constructed,
North, (Butha Buthe), Central (Maseru) and South (Quthing), within the first implementation year..
10.2 Segregation and Handling
A three-bin system shall be adopted and implemented, with appropriate colour coding. The Black
and yellow waste bags shall be located in separate places away from patient areas. Medical staff
shall separate all waste into three categories as illustrated in the table below (showing examples of
the three categories).
Table 10. Examples of typical items in separate waste containers
Potentially Infectious Waste Bags                                General Waste Bags
Waste materials contaminated or possibly  Used sharps containers  Waste materials not contaminated
contaminated with body fluids                                    with body fluids
Gloves, gowns, masks,                 Needles                    Packages, boxes
Gauze, dressings, swabs               Needles    and     syringe  Wrappings
Spatula                               assemblies                 Newspapers, magazines
Urine, blood bags                     Lancets
Sump tubes                            Scalpels, blades           Disposable plates, cups, utensils
Suction canisters                     Scissors, sutures          Food,  food   packaging,  drinks
Disposable bowls and containers used for Specimen tables         containers,
medical purposes                      Broken glass, ampoules     Tissue, paper towels
Haemodialysis tubing                  Intravenous catheter       Flowers
Intravenous (IV) lines, bags          Glass slides, cover slips  Intravenous bottles, packs
Foley catheters
Sanitary napkins
Incontinence pads
75



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
Potentially Infectious Waste Bags                                 General Waste Bags
Waste materials contaminated or possibly  Used sharps containers  Waste materials not contaminated
contaminated with body fluids                                     with body fluids
Pre-treatment highly infectious waste from
medical laboratory, isolation patients
Nappies, diapers
Human and animal tissue, Placentae
Body parts (where permitted by local laws
and customs)
All waste handlers at all levels, cleaners, porters and gardeners and incinerator operators shall
wear appropriate protective clothing when handling all waste at all times.
There shall be designated personnel in each unit, who shall be responsible for monitoring these
processes. S/he shall seal all bags when full or before removal and supervise the removal to the
temporary storage or treatment area.
Economic analysis
A major cost implication as far as segregation and handling are concerned centers around
appropriate personal protective clothing of waste handlers and appropriate storage. Provision of
these requirements is not an externality to the proper Health care. Thus, as an operational
expense, they should be integrated in the financing mechanism of the sector.
10.3 Collection and Disposal
An establishment of the basic system for collection and disposal of HCW in the three distinctive
areas of Lesotho is illustrated on the basis of major essential components. Focus is also put on
economic and financial consequences related to implementing such a system.
10.3.1 All areas
System elements
All major hospitals and filter clinics within each HSA (those with beds) will be equipped with small
capacity incinerators, except the Maseru HSA, which requires a medium capacity one. Special
Health care Waste (Infectious waste) and sharps from all other health facilities will be treated at
these centers and ash disposed of appropriately where general waste is being disposed of.
Economic analysis
Since the current condition of the incinerators is uncertain the overall investment can only be
worked on procurement of new equipment. A further consideration is that the cost of repairs of
76



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                        March 2005
existing incinerators would not exceed procurement of a new one. A further evaluation of this
option would be required before procurement is done.
Calculations based on extrapolated waste quantities, and the recommendation of the SA
Incinerator Company, appropriate incinerator capacities have been worked. The total investment
for this level shall not exceed M 2,054,950.00 and shall be borne by the health sector.
10.3.2 Urban Areas
System elements
Health care waste should be collected in rigid two wheeled containers with a lid (about 80 to 240
liters depending on the health center generation rate). Black and yellow plastic bags should be
sealed prior to movement to temporary storage. Three containers of these types are required for
all generation points, such as Wards, Pharmacy, Theaters, OPD and Emergency Rooms. This is to
avoid filled bags to be piled on the floor where they could be knocked and split open. The wheeled
containers allow transportation of waste from the medical area, directly to incineration area for
hazardous waste and to temporary central storage for general waste.
Infectious waste should be sent to incineration every 24 hours or at least every 48 hours in case of
unforeseen delays.
Every Health Care facility should have adequate storage facility for Health Care Waste that need to
be disposed. This should be in the form of at least four wheeled 1.1 m3 euro bins or skip with lids
that can easily be carried by a truck or tractor to the final disposal site. The central storage should
not store infectious waste or sharps; only the ash and general waste and this should be collected
and emptied at least once a week.
Under these conditions, collection can be made by a mid sized compactor vehicle or a tractor
manned with three runners and one driver.
The final disposal of the waste will take place at the new established sanitary landfill.
Economic analysis
The small bins are no longer recommended because of the increasing misuse by the staff. Even
the sharps containers are emptied and used in homes for various domestic purposes including
fetching water. The two-wheeled bins shall serve the dual purpose of storage and transportation,
which shall minimize the risk during transfer of full plastic bags.
The major investment component here is that of external waste disposal. This part is the
responsibility of the local authorities; however, their capacity in real terms is not sufficient. The
Local government has to be helped to put together all these elements. The overall investment
covering the cost of additional vehicles for collection and the construction and management of 10
landfills is estimated a M155, 640,000.00
10.3.4 Pern-Urban Areas
77



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
System elements
There is generally one hospital and one clinic in each peri-urban area, e.g. Morija, Roma,
Mapoteng etc. These are generally accessible by vehicles and there is no collection service by
local authority, hence collection by a private contractor seems a more immediate solution. This
can be done with a standard sized van manned with two runners and a driver. The waste can be
taken either to the local authority central collection point, equipped with a container or skip of about
2.5 m3 or direct to the landfill once every two weeks.
A central collection point that caters for other collection points for local authority is recommendable.
This can be a transfer station, from which a vehicle equipped for transportation of the container to
the sanitary landfill takes place every two weeks.
10.3.5 Rural Areas
System elements
The rural areas of Lesotho can be difficult to access and health centers are sparsely distributed, far
from the parent hospitals. Since Incineration will be done at central hospitals only, and clinics do
not regularly generate appreciable quantities of infectious waste, a different treatment is warranted.
Sharps shall be stored in sharps containers in a secure and adequate storage and transferred to
the central hospital once a month, by a hospital vehicle that takes those monthly rounds or by the
flying doctors service. Infectious waste other than sharps can be buried in a well-lined and
ventilated "septic tank" kind of a pit, where natural degradation can occur. This shall be secured
and be a restricted access area.
Box 2: Step-by-step Approach for Medical Departments
Step 1: Establish a three-bin system
Step 2: Use Distinctly different colours for general and infectious waste
Step 3Cover all waste bins; avoid using open containers and waste baskets
Step 4: Observe the different locations for black and yellow waste bags
Step 5: Fix the collection Schedule
Step 6: No bag or Sharps container should be more than three quarters full
Step 7: All bags leaving medical area should be sealed and labeled
Step 8: Use Rigid containers with wheels and lids for temporary storage
Step 9: Sharps containers should be labeled "SHARPS"
Step 10: Reinforce colour coding in all bag holders, pedal bins and waste transporting trolleys
Step 11: Use Separate trolleys for General and Potentially Infectious waste
Step 12: Designate a suitable open, ventilated area for central storage or collection
Step 13: Autoclave Waste from Highly contagious areas before placing in yellow bags
Step 14: Get all checklists for handling and collecting all categories of infectious waste
Step 15:Train - Waste Management Plan should be known to everybody in the health facility
Appoint responsible personnel for Waste management in every department
Train every member of staff in her responsibilities regarding good waste
management
78



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
Table 11. Summary of Waste Management Plan for 3 years time-frame.
GOAL: NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE THAT SUFFICIENTLY AND EFFECTIVELY EMPLOYS ENVIRONMENTALLY SOUND, TECHNICALLY
FEASIBLE, ECONOMICALLY VIABLE AND SOCIALLY ACCEPTABLE SYSTEMS FOR MANAGEMENT OF HEALTH CARE WASTE IN
LESOTHO
OBJECTIVE 1: To Enhance the Legal and Policy Fr mework to Cover Medical Waste Management Adequate ly
Time                                             Budget
Activities                                     Responsible      Frame   Indicator                Assumptions      (Maloti)
Attendance and
contribution from relevant
1.1 Workshops and meetings for review of the  Pollution Control         departments; Workshop
relevant Acts and Policies held                MoHSW           x        reports;
Documents and reports on
1.2 Necessary amendments and regulations on   Pollution Control         amendments and           Cooperation
medical waste management developed            (MoHSW);         x        regulations             from all
stakeholders;
Pollution Control        Amendments and                             70,000.00
(MoHSW);                 regulations adopted by   Agreement            ,
1.3 Proposal on amendments and regulation     Principal                 Cabinet and Parliament;  on roles for
presented in the houses of Cabinet and Parliament  Secretary            Documented amendments    each
and the Senate                                 MoHWS);         x        and regulations available  stakeholder;
Pollution Control
(MoHSW);
1.4 Medical waste Management Guideline for    Environmental
different types of health facilities developed from  Health             Documented guidelines
National Laws and policies                     MoHSW);         x        available in health facilities
79



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                       March 2005
OBJECTIVE 2: Training and Awareness for Health Facilities Personnel and Relevant Institutions
Time                                            Budget
Activities                                   Responsible      Frame   Indicator               Assumptions     (Maloti)
Documented Agreement
Pollution Control        between MoHSW and
2.1 Training institutions sourced             MoHSW;         x        training institutions
Pollution Control        Documented training
2.2 Training schedules developed             (MoHSW);        x        schedule                Approval of
Official lists of selected  budget;
participants from health
Pollution Control       facilities and other     Cooperation
2.3 Institutions and personnel to be trained selection  (MoHSW);  x   stakeholder institutions  and full   2, 559,160.00
Pollution Control                                participation
(MoHSW);                                         of relevant
Planning                                         stakeholders
Department               Training implemented    and private
2.4 Training implemented according to schedules  (MoHSW);       x x according to set schedule  surgeries;
Environmental
Health
(MoHSW);                 Availability of awareness
2.5 Written awareness materials produced and  Health                  materials in all health
distributed                                  Education          x x facilities
80



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
OBJECTIVE 3: To Mobilize all the Required Equipm ent and Protective Clothing and to maintain the High Sta ndards of Treatment
Time                                             Budget
Activities                                    Responsible      Frame   Indicator                Assumptions      (Maloti)
3.1 Suppliers of the required equipment and   Pollution Control
protective clothing sourced                   (MoHSW);        x        Quotations from suppliers
Pollution Control
(MoHSW);                 Required equipment       Budget        Incinerators
Health facility          available in all health  aproved      investment:
3.2 All equipment listed mobilized            Administration;    x x facilities                 aPPr         2, 465,940.00
Pollution Control                                 Availability of Protective
(MoHSW);                 Protective clothing      funds for    clothing and
Health facility          available in all health  CHAL and      handling
3.3 All required protective clothing mobilized  Administration;  x x facilities                 private      equipment:
Pollution Control                                 facilities;  33,490,472.00
(MoHSW);Health
facility
3.4 Personnel for operation and maintenance of the  Administration;    Personnel working and
technology mobilized                          Public Health   x   ___ their contracts documented
81



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
OBJECTIVE 4: To Adopt an Environmentally Sound Way of Waste Management that prevents spread of Diseases by waste from health
Facilities
Time                                             Budget
Activities                                    Responsible      Frame   Indicator                Assumptions     (Maloti)
Matrons;                                          Availability of Landfill
Superintendents;         No waste found mixed in  sanitary     investment:
4.1 All solid waste segregated according to a three-  Environmental    bins                     landfills in all  137,500,000.00
bin system at all points of their generation  Health (MoHSW) x x    x                           towns;       Landfill
Infectious waste and     Availability of operation:
sharps fond only at their  at least one  13,750,000.00
point of generation and the  operational 3l 0l
site of incinerator; This  incinerator in  Waste
waste not stored at the  inierach r HAS  colleto ln
4.2 All infectious waste including sharps in urban and  Environmental  latter for more than 24  each HAS;    collection plant
peri-urban facilities incinerated before disposal  Health (MoHSW) x x x  hours                  Availability of 5,390,000
Infectious waste not found  transport;
in any place other than at
4.3 Al infectious waste in rural facilities is disposed in  Environmental  its point of generation and
well-lined pit for degradation                Health (MoHSW) x x x     in the pit
No used sharps are found
in any place other than in
4.4 All used needles from rural facilities incinerated in  Environmental  their store room sealed in
hospitals in each HAS                         Health (MoHSW) x x x     their containers
No illegal dumping of
Town Clerks;             general waste and ash
4.5 For urban and peri-urban facilities, all generated  MCC; Health    from health facilities;
waste and ash from the incinerators is disposed in  facility           Records of waste
appropriate disposal sites                    Administration;  x x  x collection and disposal
82



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                       March 2005
No illegal dumping of
Environmental            general waste outside the
4.6 General waste from rural facilities buried  Health (MoHSW) x x x facilities
Environmental
4.7 activities on management of medical solid waste  Health           Documented reports on
in health facilities monitored                MoHSW    NES   x x x    monitoring
OBJECTIVE 5: To Employ a System of Medical Wastewater Management that Ensures that no Chemicals and Pathogens from Health
Facilities are Introduced into the Sewage System
Time                                             Budget
Activities                                   Responsible      Frame   Indicator                Assumptions     (Maloti)
No enteric pathogens                  Budget of this
5.1 Excreta from patients with enteric diseases  Senior Nursing       found in health facilities  None      objective
collected and incinerated                     Officer;        x x x waste water                             covered in
No cytotoxic drugs found in           objective 3
5.2 Excreta form patients on cytotoxic drugs collected  Senior Nursing  health facilities waste
separately and incinerated                    Officer;        x x x water
No heavy chemical loading
of pharmaceutical waste
5.3 All pharmaceutical waste collected and    Environmental           found in wastewater from
incinerated                                   Health (MoHSW) x x x    health facilities
No enteric and heavy
chemical loading of
laboratory chemicals found
Environmental           in health facilities
5.4 all laboratory samples and chemicals incinerated  Health (MoHSW) x x x wastewater
83



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
Records of collection of
fixer by the company that
recovers silver; no heavy
5.5 The fixer from X-ray section collected for  Environmental          chemicals loading in waste
recovery of silver; and the developer incinerated  Health (MoHSW) x  x x water due to develop
Health Facility
5.6 Quality of waste water from health facilities  Laboratory;
monitored                                     WASA;           x  x  x  Records of monitoring
OBJECTIVE 6: To Educate and Build Awareness to the General Public
Time                                              Budget
Activities                                    Responsible     Frame    Indicator                Assumptions     (Maloti)
Health                                            Bde
Education;               Minutes of meetings;    aBudgoved
6.1 Designs of written materals and schedules of  Environmental        ContracUorder to the      PPre
other methods of awareness agreed upon        Health (MoHSW) x         designer                 Cooperation
Health                                            from all role
Education;                                        players in      1,432,526.00
Environmental            Materials available in   education
6.2 Written materials produced and distributed  Health (MoHSW) x    x target communities        and
Health                                            awareness
Education;               Public gatherings held;  raising to the
6.3 Schedule of mass media and public gatherings  Environmental        relevant officers        communities
methods and awareness implemented             Health (MoHSW) x   x x   interviewed on talk shows
84



Health Care Waste Manacement Plan                                       March 2005
OBJECTIVE 7: Develop specific Financial Resources to Cover the Cost of the Management of Health Care Waste
Time                                            Budget
Activities                                    Responsible     Frame   Indicator                Assumptions     (Maloti)
7.1 Set up specific HCWM budget lines in      Financial               Budgets lines in place and
accountancy system                           Controllers     x        funds allocated
Environmental
Health
7.2 Evaluate all options in the plan and determine  (MoHSW);
cost recovery mechanism that is centralized  Accountancy     x        Best option identified
Principal                                                     These activities
Secretary                                         None         do not require
(MoHSW);                                                      special budget
7.3 Memorandum of agreement for cost recovery  District
between appropriate institutions             secretary;      x        MOA signed
7.4 Develop and implement effective billing,  Financial
collection and exemption system               Controllers    x   ___  Systems in place
7.5 Develop and implement a new fee schedule  Financial
incorporating real cost recovery             Controllers     x        Fee schedule in place
85



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                       March 2005
11.0 Monitoring Plan
To ensure that objectives of the Medical Waste Management Plan are achieved, the
implementation of the plan has to be monitored by either internal or external bodies to the Ministry
of Health and Social Welfare. In some cases it will be both. The monitoring body will determine the
tools of monitoring. This monitoring will assist the Ministry to identify the strengths and weaknesses
of the plan itself and the programmed implemented under it. Where the weaknesses exist, the plan
will be revisited and improvements will be made.
Table12: Monitoring Plan for Implementation of HCWM Plan.
Objectivel: To Enhance the Legal and policy Framework to Cover Medical Waste Management
Adequately
This objective has to be monitored to investigate if the issue of Medical Waste Management is adequately
addressed by the relevant policies and legal mandates in the country. The monitoring will also look into
clarification of roles of different institutions in medical waste management and see if these have been well
defined and if all involved institutions are content with their responsibilities and committed to implement their
due duties.
Monitoring Bodies       Private Consultant
Parameters/Factors to      -  Whether all relevant stakeholders have been involved and they
be analyzed                   participated fully.
-  Proposed amendments and regulations have to be analyzed to assess
their applicability in implementation of medical waste management.
Frequency               The monitoring has to be done after the amendment to the policies and laws
as well as the regulations have been developed, and its repetition will depend
whether the objective has been reached.
Objective 2: Training and Awareness for Health Facilities Personnel and Relevant Institutions
Monitoring of this objective will be meant to assess whether the education given to the personnel of MoHSW
and other institutions has sunk and to investigate its effectiveness in roles played by each cadre in HCW
management.
Monitoring Body            -  Development and Training (MoHSW)
-  Health education
Parameters/Factors to      -  Content of the training and awareness materials
be analyzed                -  Attendance of personnel and institutions in training
-  Motivation and commitment of personnel and institutions towards
implementation of their roles in appropriate HCW management.
Frequency               6 months after the training or awareness campaign
86



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                        March 2005
Objective 3: To mobilize all the Required Equipment and Protective Clothing and to maintain the
high standards of treatment technology
The purpose of monitoring under this objective will be to find out if the necessary equipment and protective
clothing is available and if the equipment is operated and serviced to maintain its highest standard of
performance.
Monitoring Body             -  Environmental Health
- OSH (Ministry of Labour and Employment)
Parameters! Factors to      -  Whether every staff member has and uses the necessary protective
be analyzed                    clothing
- Availability of recommended technologies in relevant health facilities
- Conditions of the technologies and whether they are appropriately
operated
Frequency                   -  Every month
Objective 4: To adopt an environmentally sound way of waste management that prevents spread of
diseases by waste from Health facilities.
Monitoring activities under this objective will investigate whether recommended methods of management of
infectious and general waste from health facilities are practiced.
Monitoring Body             -  Environmental Health
- NES
- MoLG (MCC and Town Clerks)
Parameters/ Factors to      -  Whether waste is segregated at generation points
be analyzed                 -  Conditions and period of its storage
-  Handling of waste
- Whether incinerators operate at recommended temperatures
- Presence of needles and other infectious waste in disposal sites
Frequency                   -  Monthly for Environmental Health
- Bi-monthly for NES, MCC and offices of Town Clerks
Objective 5: To employ a system of Medical Wastewater Management that ensures that no chemicals
and pathogens from health facilities are introduced into the sewage system.
The purpose of monitoring under this objective will be to find out if wastewater from health facilities contains
enteric pathogens and chemicals, and to find out their source.
Monitoring Body             -  WASA
- DWA
- Hospital Laboratory
Parameters/ Factors to  Analyze
be analyzed                 -  Presence of enteric pathogens and
- COD
from health facilities.
Frequency                   -  Every month for the hospital laboratory in the first year, and bi-monthly
afterwards
- Quarterly for WASA and DWA
87



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
Objective 6: To Educate and Build Awareness to the General Public
The monitoring will assess level of awareness of people on risks associated with medical waste after
awareness campaign.
Monitoring Body             -  NGO's
-  Health Education
-   Private Consultant
Parameters/ Factors to      -  Content of awareness methods
be analyzed                 -  Suitability of each method used to a target group
-  Effectiveness of the method used to a target group
-  Opportunities for improvement of methods
Frequency               A year after the campaign has started
Objective 7: Develop specific financial resources to cover the cost of the management of Health
Care waste
For effective implementation of this objective, the monitoring will investigate if a specific budget for HCW
management has been drawn and whether other financial sources apart from the Government have been
tapped. As NES is a focal point for accession of funds from some organizations (e.g. Conventions), they will
have to be involved in monitoring so see how the funds have been used.
Monitoring Body             -  NES
-  Financial Controller (MoHSW)
Parameters/ Factors to      -  Available funds and their source
be analyzed                 -  How funds have been used and the gaps
-  Attempts made to source funds and the responses
-  Other potential financial sources
Frequency               At the end of every governmental financial year.
88



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
12.0 Evaluation of Financing Possibilities
Looking into the financing of the activities and components of the overall Health Care Waste
Management in Lesotho, the total National Investment can be estimated at M 176,059,768.00.
This value is inclusive of the minimum requirements for efficient collection in major towns and peri-
urban areas, over a period of a year.
The three major role players are implicated and can be expected to finance the system.
Ministry of Tourism Environment and Culture, whose major roles should be Monitoring,
enforcement and Public Awareness programmes, would provide infrastructure and resources for
these roles. .
Ministry of Local Government should procure the Hardware component (landfills and collection
trucks and storages). They shall remain in Operation and Maintenance as well as Personnel
management (collectors and drivers and landfill managers)
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, as a committed member should start with proper
Segregation and provision of all requirements thereof (containers and storages). They should
commit to treatment with the high standard incineration process. The Ministry should further
ensure equitable User charges and set up an efficient collection system in order to recover some
costs. Training of all cadres of workers should be regular component of the medical programs.
Financing options; (capital costs)
The current sector budget of M 327 million is undoubtedly very low for operations of a good health
care system. The management, workers at all levels and the accounting section of the ministry
estimate that at least M600 million is required to run the sector. The improvement of HCWM poses
yet another financial requirement, not only to the sector but also to the nation at large.
The Government of Lesotho should approach its development partners for assistance in the form
of Loans or Grants. Lesotho is eligible for HCWM assistance through WHO.
The sale of long term Bonds is another option that the government should try to raise funds for
such capital works.
Operating and maintenance costs can be financed through general revenues or grants from the
central government. For cost recovery, mainly on the part of local Government, financing should
be based on user charges. The current charges should be reviewed to reflect the actual cost of the
service, both at Local Government and Health delivery.
89



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
13.0 Conclusions and Recommendations
The observations at the main hospital in Maseru are:
* HCWM is not assigned any specific authority
* Segregation of HCW is not observed by the medical staff
* Staff engaged in HCW handling is not provided with appropriate protective equipment
* All staff is not trained in HCWM
* HCW is not accorded effective treatment
* There is rampant theft of plastic bucket type medical bins
* Hospital grounds are not maintained in a manner deserving of a health care institution
* There is general poor maintenance of equipment from the incinerator to the sewerage
network
Lesotho's economy is still low to sustain a full-fledged waste management expenses. Due to
unemployment and general poverty, people cannot afford to fund waste management. The
successful implementation of HCWM shall require a more efficient economy.
Institutional collaboration is very poor among government ministries and departments, as such
crosscutting programs like waste management, which are heavy on individual authority in charge
are not fully functional. Collaboration should be improved and roles clearly defined down to
financial responsibilities.
Communication channels and responsibilities are often neglected as a result of unclear roles
(undefined) and the general attitude of hoarding program by the management in public service, in
general. All programs within the sector should be publicized in the sector newsletter so that
information reaches everybody and the public knows their roles.
Healthcare Waste Management is relatively poor in Lesotho and does not seem to receive any
attention as a serious infection prevention program.
There is no legislation that governs HCW directly, except for the new Environment Act, which
encompasses it in hazardous waste. Regulations and guidelines are non-existent.
Generally, the National Waste Management is inadequate to address the requirements o
environmentally sound disposal of HCW.
Little support, especially in terms of resources to the healthcare workers has led to low morality
and demotivation among workers at all levels.
Misadministration, such as late payments to non-payment of bills has crippled many operations of
the healthcare system and still remains a serious threat to smooth operation.
Investment in HCW management should be regarded a national issue, not health sector issue.
Hence collaboration between the major role players namely; MoHSW, MoLG, MTEC, and MoFDP
must be strengthened with a view of harmonizing responsibilities and priorities.
90



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                       March 2005
It is further recommended that;
-  MoHSW, MoLG, and MTEC share the funding of the capital costs of this plan, preferably at
the ratio of 2:2:1 respectively. Other related operational costs can be funded within the
recurrent budgets of individual ministries. The budget for these three ministries need to be
thoroughly reviewed whereas budget lines pertaining to HCWM will be established.
-  For purposes of accountability, the department of Environmental health should be
assigned the responsibility of ensuring that all healthcare facilities implement  the
proposed HCWM plan. And for support to this department, the two committees - National
HCWM Committee and HSA HCWM Committees - have to be established.
-  The approved plan, through the national HCWM committee and HSA HCWM Committee
should be made available and disseminated to all units of HHC facilities, including
practices.
-  Regulations on Hazardous waste and technical guidelines should be developed to address
day-to-day operational issues.
-  A system for evaluation, licensing and monitoring of private sector participation in
hazardous waste management should be developed to enable considerable participation
of private sector.
91



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
REFERENCES AND BIBLIOGRAPHY
1.   DANCED, Pre-feasibility Study on Solid Waste Management in Lesotho, 2000
2.   DANCED, Proceedings on workshop for Decision and Policy Makers Regarding Solid waste
Management, 2000
3.   Lesotho government, Building ControlAct, 1995, Government Printing, Maseru, 1995.
4.   Lesotho Government, Environment Act No.15 2001, Government Printing, Maseru, 2001.
5.   Lesotho Government, Health and Social Welfare Policy, 2004, Government Printing, Maseru,
2004.
6.   Lesotho   government, Labour Code (Chemical Safety) Regulations 2003, Government
Printing, Maseru, 2003.
7.   Lesotho Government, National environment Policy, National Environment Secretariat,
Maseru, 1996.
8.   Lesotho Government, Sanitary Services and Refuse Removal Regulations 1972,
Government Printing, Maseru, 1972.
9.   Lesotho Government, The Public Health Order 1970, Government Printing, Maseru, 1970.
10.  Lesotho Government, The Urban Govemment Act 1983, Government Printing, Maseru,
1970.
11.  Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Environmental Health Assistants Curriculum Review of
2003, MoLG, Maseru, 2003.
12.  Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Lesotho Health Sector Reforms Plan, MoLG, Maseru,
2000.
13.  Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Health Statistical Tables, MoLG, Maseru, 2003
14.  Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, National Medical Waste Situations, MoLG, Maseru,
2004
15.  National Environment Secretariat, Chemical Legislation and Enforcement Capacity, National
Environment Secretariat, Maseru, 2004.
16.  www.healthcarewaste.org/linked/onlinedocs/HCW practica/lnfol.pdf (3rd December, 2004)
17.  Pruss A (Ed.), Safe Management of Waste from Healthcare Activities, WHO, Geneva, 1999.
18.  S.A Incinerator Company, Company Brochure.
92



I        Health Care Waste Management Plan                 March 2005
ANNEX A
ORGANOGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL
WELFARE
93



Health Care Waste Management Plan                    March 2005
ANNEX B
GUIDELINES FOR PRELIMINARY CHOICE OF A LANDFILL
94



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                         March 2005
site No:
site nazwne
NQ.    Selection criteria           Remark at site visit  PRELIMINARN EVALIJATION OF SUITABILITY OF
CRITERION (HIGH/MEDIUM/LOV)
1     SE OF AREA C
2      DISTANCE TO POPULATED AREAS
I   3  D IOSTAANCETO $4NSfITVEWATER
RESOURCES
4      HYDROLOGY AND HYDROGEOLOGY
5     GEOLOGY e OQPSOQL, ROCKS ETC)
6     ToPOGRAPHY
7      DISTANCE FROM WASTE ARMSN
8     CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL
AVAILAITY (QUARRY OR CLAY PIT
AT STE)
9     CURRENT LAND UE
10    LOCAL ECOLOGICAL CONDILOMS
11    FLOODING OCCURRENCE
12    TRANSPORTATION LINKS (MN
RQADS ACCESS ROAD, TRAFFIC
tMPACTS)
13    PUBLIC OPINION, ACCEPTANCE
95



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                         March 2005
CRITERIA, LEVEL OF SIGNIFICANCE AND SUITABILITY AND SCORE FOR A SELECTED SITE
site No:
site name:
No.   CRITERIA              SIGNIFICANCE OF  SUITABILITY  OF  SCORE FOR SITE  REMARKS
CRITERION,  1.0  SITE, HIGH (2) (SIGNIFICANCE  X
(LOW) AND  2.0   MEDIUM (1) Low  SUITABILITY)
(HIGH)          (0)
I    AVAILABLE LAND AREA
2    DISTANCE TO POPULATED
AREAS
3    PROXIMITY TO SENSITIVE
WATER RESOURCES
4    HYDROLOGY       AND
HYDROGEOLOGY
5    SOILILAND  CONDITIONS
(PERMEABILITY, STABILITY
ETC)
6    TOPOGRAPHY
7    DISTANCE FROM WASTE
ARISING
8    CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL
AVAILABILITY
9    CURRENT LAND USE
10   LOCAL      ECOLOGICAL
CONDITIONS
11   FLOODING OCCURRENCE
12   TRANSPORTATION  LINKS
(MAIN ROAD, ACCESS
ROAD, TRAFFIC IMPACTS)
13   AVAILABILITY      OF
INFRASTRUCTURE (WATER
AND POWER SUPPLY ETC).
TOTAL SCORE
96



Health Care Waste Management Plan                         March 2005
ANNEX C:
Case Study on Evaluation of Waste Incineration and Composting
97



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                       March 2005
Emission Factors from UNEP Tool kit
Waste incineration Category I
i_________________________________________________________   Em ission   Factors  -pg  TEQ/t of M aterial
Air           Water        Land            ProducVFly    Residue/Bo
ash          ttom Ash
1 .Low Technology combustion, no APC system                      3,500           N/A            N/A           N/A         75
2. Controlled combustion, minimal APC                              350           N/A            N/A           500          15
3. Controlled combustion, good APC                                  30           N/A            N/A           200           7
4. High technology combustion, sophisticated APC system             0.5          N/A            N/A            15         1.5
Waste Disposal-landfill category
1. Hazardous waste                                                   0           200            N/A           N/A         50
2. Non-hazardous waste                                               0            30            N/A           N/A           5
Open Burning of Waste Category 6b
1. Landfill fires                                                 1,000          ND             N/A           N/A        600
2. Accidental fires in houses, factories etc                       400           ND          residue          N/A        400
3. Uncontrolled Domestic waste burning                             300           ND          residue          N/A        600
4. Accidental fires in vehicles                               94/vehicle         ND          residue          N/A   18/vehicle
5. Open burning of wood                                             60           ND              ND           N/A          10
98



m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                       March 2005
Scenario 1: Country Situation in 2005
* Population of 2.10 million;
* 20% (420,000) of the population lives in the urban centers;
* Waste generation rate of 0. 43 kg per person and day;
* 30 % is collected and disposed in 10 dumpsites;
* Of the dispersed waste, 10 % is burned in barrels, roadside, in gardens, etc.;
* All dumpsites also burn;
* There is no composting of waste;
* There is no municipal solid waste incinerator.
Generation of waste - per year, nation-wide:
Calculation:  |                             2,100,000 *0.43 kg /1000 *365     329,595 tVa
Scenario l: Actual practices  Releases in g TEQ/a
Disposal in waste dumps                 30 %                                  98,878.5 Va
EF in residues                     5 pg TEQ/t                              0.494 g TEQla
Burning waste dumps                          90 %                            0.9 * 329,595
=296,635.5 Va
296,635.5 * 1,000 / 1000,000
EF to air                            1,000 pg TEQIt                      = 296.64 g TEQ/a
EF in residues                        600 pg TEQ/t                         177.98 g TEQ/a
Wastes left at home:                       70 %                              0.7* 329,505
=230,653.5 tla
EF in (untreated) waste:              5 pg TEQ/t                             1.15 g TEQ/a
Burning of these wastes                    10 %                              23,065.4 tla
EF to air                           300 pg TEQ/t                            6.92 g TEQ/a
EF in residues                      600 pg TEQ/t                            13.84 g TEQ/a
Releases
To air:                      303.56 g TEQ/a                      296.64+6.92
In residues:                 193.46 g TEQ/a           0.494+177.98+1.15+13.84
Total:                      497.02 g TEQla _
100



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                           March 2005
Legend:       EF:        Emission factor                        t:  ton
TEQ        Toxic equivalent                       a:   year
Scenario 2: Country Situation in 2010
*  Country population and in the urban centers have not changed;
*    Waste generation has not changed;
*    The country has established a waste collection system  to serve 1 municipal waste
incinerator and 10 landfills (all new);
*    Half of the total waste is disposed of in new landfills.
*    The municipal solid waste incinerator is state-of-the-art burning all domestic waste
generated in the urban centers.
*    The new landfill does not burn and is not ignited;
*    1 0 % of the domestic waste generated is not collected;
*    Of the dispersed waste, 10 % is burned in barrels, roadside, in gardens, etc.;
*    The districts encourage composting in rural areas and have set up 3 central compos-ting
facilities and encourage private composting of garden and kitchen wastes. The overall
composting rate is 20 % of the total waste generated in the country
101



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                     March 2005
Scenario Il: Disposal practices in the year 2010
Generation of municipal solid waste:  -                                      329,595 t/a
Wastes for incineration in plant:          20%                  420,000 * 0.43 * 365/ 1000
= 65,919 t/a
EF to air                          0.5 pg TEQ/t                           0.033 g TEQ/a
EF in residues (bottom ash)         1.5 pg TEQ/t                          0.099 g TEQ/a
EF in residues (fly ash)            15 pg TEQ/t                           0.990 g TEQla
Total in residues:                                                       1.089 gTEQ/a
Composting:                             20 %/                                 65,919 tVa
EF in product       5 ,ug TEQ/t                            0.33 g TEQ/a
Disposal in waste dumps                                    30 %             98,878.5 t/a
Disposal in sanitary landfills                  50 % of total waste        164,797.5 t/a
Total in waste dumps and sanitary                          80 %            263,676.0 t/a
landfills
EF in residues                                         5 pg TEQ/t          1.32 g TEQ/a
Burning of waste dumps:                                   20 %s               65,919 tla
EF to air                                            300 pg TEQ/t         19.78 g TEQ/a
EF in residues                                      600 pg TEQ/t          39.55 g TEQ/a
Waste left at home:                               10 %                       32,595.5 t/a
EF in waste (untreated)               5 pg TEQ/t                   0.165 g TEQ/a
Burning of these wastes                           10 %                        3,259.6 tla
EF to air                                  300 pg TEQ/t                   0.978 g TEQ/a
EF in residues                             600 pg TEQ/t                    1.956 g TEQ/a
Releases
To air:                                  107.79 g TEQ/a                 0.033+19.78+0.978
In residues and products                44.407 g TEQ/a   1.089+0.33+1.32+39.55+0.165+1.956
Total:                                 152.197 gTEQ/a
2005 (air) vs. 2010 (air)        = 303.56 vs. 107.79
2005 (total) vs. 2010 (total)    = 497.02 vs. 152.197
102



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
An introduction of well managed land fills that are not ignited, the introduction of controlled
combustion incinerators with good APC system, together with adequate composting
processes do lower air pollution. dioxins and Furans emissions are drastically lowered.
Hence, incineration is still the choice of technology BUT only when managed properly.
Table 5 Indicates that the estimated total Health Care Waste in the country may be in excess of
1076 tons a year. On the basis of the current disposal and treatment practices the contribution of
this sector to Dioxins and Furans emissions , calculated on the basis of uncontrolled combustion,
would be 3.77 g-TEQla. Comparing this with a case where a controlled combustion incineration
process with good APC system is introduced, it is found that it would lower these emissions down
to 0.032 g-TEQIa, a hundred fold lower.
103



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                     March 2005
1.    Handling and Storage
System element            |                      Quantity          Unit cost                 Total cost
Protective clothing       I
Long tough plastic gloves                                 1932                    100.00                193,200.00
Overalls                                                  1932                   250.00                 483,000.00
Aprons                                                    1932                    120.00                231,840.00
Nose masks                                             1178520                    30.00               3,535,600.00
Shoes                                                     1932                    350.00                676,200.00
Surgical gloves                                        2707112                      1.50              4,060,668.00
Container bins             901-200L                             966                    400.00                386,400.00
I
Sharps containers          101                                29463                     50.00               1,473,150.00
251                                58926                     70.00               4,124,820.00
Needle destroyer           HNItype                              322                  1,990.00                640,780.00
Plastic bags                                                 707112                      1.50               1,060,668.00
Totals|                                     .                                                              15,805,658.00
107



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                  March 2005
2.    Treatment
Hospital facility  Number of Daily   Annual    Extrapolated Extrapolated Hazardous Required  Purchasing  Current
Beds      waste @ Waste      daily values annual values waste  incinerator  cost (Maluti) condition
1.44kgIbId          @     1.068            amount @capacity & SA
kglbld                 25%. Kg Incinerator Co
                               model
Mafeteng                200      288     104,988       214      77964     22869    70/150LA    94,500.00 Working
Mokhotlong              110       158     57,743                42880     12578    70/150LA    94,500.00 New but needs
117                                              repair
Butha-Buthe             129       186     67,717       138       50287    14751    70/150LA    94,500.00 Needs repairs
Leribe                  287      413     150,658       307      111878    32817   120/250LA   114,100.00 Needs repairs
Berea                   128       184     67,192       137      49897     14636    70/150LA    94,500.00 Needs repairs
QE II (Maseru)          450       647    236,223       481      175419    51455   220/450LA   163,800.00 Needs repairs
Mohales'Hoek            140      201      73,492       150       54575    16008    70/150LA    94,500.00 eeds repairs
Quthing                 148       213     77,691       158       57693    16923    70/150LA    94,500.00 Needs repairs
Qachas, Nek             145       209     76,116       155       56524    16580    70/150LA    94,500.00 Needs repairs
Thaba-Tseka             130       187     68,242       139       50677    14865    70/150LA    94,500.00 o incinerator
St. James                60        86     31,496                 23389     6861    70/150LA    94,500.00 No incinerator
(Mantsonyane)                                  64
Maluti (Mapoteng)       150       216     78,741       160       58473    17152    70/150LA    94,500.00 Working
Botsabelo (Lepereng)     21       30      11,024        22        8186     2402     15/30LA    27,400.00 No incinerator
Itekeng Vocational R.    69       99      36,221        74      26898      7890    70/150LA    94,500.00 No incinerator
Mohlomi (Maseru)        150       216     78,741       160       58473    17151    70/150LA    94,500.00 No incinerator
Seboche (Butha-          72       104     37,796                 28067     8233    50/1OOLA    94,500.00 o incinerator
Buthe)                                                  77                                               _     __
Scott (Morija)          102       147     53,544       109       39762    11663    70/150LA    94,500.00 No incinerator
108



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                   March 2005
Hospital facility  Number of Daily   Annual     Extrapolated Extrapolated Hazardous Required  Purchasing  Current
Beds      waste @ Waste      daily values annual values waste  incinerator  cost (Maluti) condition
1.44kg/bId          @     1.068            amount @capacity & SA
kglbld                 25%. Kg Incinerator Co
                                model
St. Josephs (Roma)       140      201     73,492        150      54575     16008    70/150LA    94,500.00 No incinerator
Tebellong (Qachas'       55        79     28,872                 21440      6289    70/150LA    94,500.00 No incinerator
Nek)                                                    59
'Mamohau (Lejone)        43        62     22,572        46       16762      4917    50/1OOLA    60,950.00 No incinerator
Maseru Private           32        46     16,798                 12474      3659    50/1OOLA    60,950.00 No incinerator
Hospital                                                 34
Mabote Filter Clinic     15        22      8052          16       5856      1464     15/30LA    27,400.00 Needs repairs
Qoaling Filter Clinic    15        22      8052          16       5856      1464     15/30LA    27,400.00 eeds repairs
Makoanyane Military      40        58     21,082        43       15636      3909    50/1OOLA    60,950.00 Needs repairs
Averages                 118      170      61939        126      45985     13439                85,622.92
Totals                 2831     4073.2  1,486,545   3026.04     1103641   322544 _2,054,950.00 
109



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                   March 2005
3. Collection and Disposal
System element              Number of                    Unit cost              Total investment Need
units
Collection trucks                    2                               700,000.00             1,400,000.00
l                                                                                      0.00
Collection Tractors                 10                               300,000.00            3,000,000.00
l                                                                                      0.00
Containers(skips)                   22                                45,000.00              990,000.00
.   I  .                                                                               0.00
Sanitary Landfill                   10                   500/ton/year                     151,250,000.00
Capacity tons/year
Maseru                                 40000           20,000,000.00            2,000,000.00
Maputsoe-Hlotse                        40000           20,000,000.00            2,000,000.00
Butha Buthe                            30000           15,000,000.00            1,500,000.00
Teyateyaneng                           30000           15,000,000.00            1,500,000.00
Mafeteng                               30000           15,000,000.00            1,500,000.00
M/Hoek                                 30000           15,000,000.00            1,500,000.00
Quthing                                30000           15,000,000.00            1,500,000.00
Qacha's nek                            15000            7,500,000.00             750,000.00
Thaba tseka                            15000            7,500,000.00             750,000.00
Mokhotlong                             15000            7,500,000.00             750,000.00
Total landfill investment                                         137,500,000.00           13,750,000.00
Total collection and disposal                                                            155, 640,000.00
Notes: This is an external investments as far as the Health Facilities are concerned
However, in terms of operatibility of HCWM, the overall national Waste Management has to be at an acceptable level. This investment
should be looked at as a national issue that has to be highly coordinated between Health, Local Government and Environment
110



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                      March 2005
4.     Training and Awareness raising
Training Programme by Health Service Area
HAS                                 Type of Training                   Number of Duration        Projected cost x
Trainees                  M 1000
Butha Buthe and Seboche             Workshops/In service               33         6 days                 108.504
Short course                       6           12 days                39.456
Berea                               Workshops/In service               33         6 days                 108.504
Short course                       6           12 days                39.456
Leribe                              Workshops/In service               76         6 days                 249.888
Short course                       6           12 days                39.456
Mafeteng                            Workshops/in service               34         6 days                 111.792
Short course                       6           12 days                39.456
Maluti                              Workshops/In service               30         6 days                  98.640
Short course                       6           12 days                39.456
Mamohau and Paray                   Workshops/In service               54         6 days                 177.552
Short course                       6           12 days                39.456
Mohale's Hoek                       Workshops/In service               36         6 days                 118.368
Short course                       6           12 days                39.456
Mokhotlong and St James             Workshops/In service               46         6 days                 151.248
Short course                       6           12 days                39.456
Queen II                            Workshops/In service               98         6 days                 322.224
Short course                       6           12 days                39.456
Qacha's neck and Tebellong          Workshops/In service               48         6 days                 157.824
Short course                       6           12 days                39.456
Quthing                             Workshops/In service               32         6 days                 105.216
Short course                       6           12 days                39.456
Scott, Semonkong and St Joseph      Workshops/In service               78         6 days                 256.464
Short course                       6           12 days                39.456
111



Health Care Waste Manaqiement Plan                                        March 2005
HAS                                  Type of Training                    Number of Duration         Projected cost x
Trainees                   M 1000
All HAS -                            Short course
-Incinerator operators              2   x   24  2 days                   52.608
incinerators
-Maintenance technicians            4 x central 2 days                    4.384
____________________________based
-Administrators   Accountants    &  3 x 19 HSA  2 days                   62.472
Environment Health Officer
TOTAL                                                                    779         222    person      2,559,160.00
Trainees    days
Notes:
The costs include transport from home base for trainees, Daily Subsistence and Training provider fees and Materials.(Average
M548/person/day)
Two trainees per Health center and
Two trainees per unit in a Hospital (wards, pharmacy, dental, and radiology)
Six members from other external institutions and agencies (Environment, Local Government, labour, Natural resources,
Development planning and NGOs)
112



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                        March 2005
5. Public Education and Awareness Building
SIGN BOARDS
24 hospitals        x      M 7,520.00/bill board                    M 180,480.00
10 disposal sites   x      M 7,520.00/bill board                    M  75,200.00
M 255,680.00
RADIO ADVERTS
PC FM
First Batch  3 adverts     x 31 days    x 2 months    x M180.00     M 33,480.00
Second Batch  2 adverts    x 31 days    x 3 months    x M180.00     M 33,480.00
Third Batch   l advert     x 31 days     x 1 month    x M180.00     M  5.580.00
M 72540.00
Radio Lesotho 10 adverts   x      236                               M  2,690.00
NEWSPAPER ADVERTS
Public Eye    24 adverts   x      M  2,334.00                M  56,016.00
The Mirror    24 adverts   x      M 1,250.00                 M  30,000.00
Mopheme      24 adverts    x      M 650.00                   M  15,600.00
WRITTEN MATERIALS
Poster       50,000        x      M  3.50 = M 175,000.00
Pamphlets    50,000        x      M  1.00 = M 50,000.00
FREE METHODS OF AWARENESS RAISING
-  Writing articles in newspapers
-  Visiting RadioTalkShows
-  Using Soul City Dramas through Phela
-  Holding Public Gatherings
-  Disseminating Information through Community Health Workers
114



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                    March 2005
Summary of Projected National HCWM Plan Implementation Costs
for the first Three Years
Investment Item               Investments and Incremental Costs er ear
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Total Investment
1 Handling and Storage         15,805,658.00  9,180,506.00  8,504,308.00    33,490,472.00
2 Treatment                     2,054,950.00   205,495.00     205,495.00     2,465,940.00
3 Collection and Disposal      61,306,667.00  54,916,667.00  54,166,667.00  170,390,001.00
4   Training  and  Awareness     853,053.33    853,053.33     853,053.00     2,559,159.99
raising
5   Public   Education   and     477,508.67    477,508.67    477,508.67      1,432,526.00
Awareness Building
Annual Total                   79,644,784.00  64,780,177.00  64,207,032.00  208,627,993.00
115



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                                    March 2005
Annex F
Stakeholders consulted
116



Health Care Waste Manaqement Plan                                          March 2005
LIST OF STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTED
Stakeholder Institutions
Health Planning & Statistics  Director                 Mrs. M. Makhakhe
NES                         Senior Environment Officer  Mr. T. Tsasanyane
Maseru City Council         Principal Health Inspector  Mrs R. M. Khooe
Ministry of Local Government  Town Clerk (Thaba-Tseka)  Mrs Tsepang Koele
Ministry of Local Government  Town Clerk (Mokhotlong)   Mr.
Ministry of Local Government  Economic Planner          Mr. Koto Noto
Health Education            Chief Health Educator       Mr. Ndwampe
PHELA                       Programme Manager           Limpho Mokhochane
Health Facilities
Queen Elizabeth 11          Senior Nursing Officer      Mrs. M. Mafike
Health Division Clinic      Nursing Assistant           Mrs Malenka Motlejoa
District Psychiatric Nurse  Mrs R. Qhobosheane
Khohlo Nt'so Clinic         Nurse Clinician             Mrs Mamotebang Ramoholi
Paray Hospital              Administrator               Mr. Thamae
Maluti Hospital             Medical Superintendent      Dr. N. E. Hurlow
Mokhotlong Hospital         Administrator               Mrs. A.M. Tsufu
Acting Matron               Mrs. Sophie Sekonyela
Health Assistant            Alina Makoa
Motebang Hospital           Senior Nursing Officer      Mrs. Mpoetsi Makau
Ntsekhe Hospital            Administrator               Mr. Molise Lepota
Ntsekhe Hospital            Environmental Officer       Mr. Bulara Moja-khomo
Maluti Health Center        Nurse Clinician             Mrs B. Rampou Seoli
Immaculate Health Center    Registered Nurse            Sr. Theresia Mozie
117



Health Care Waste Management Plan                                          March 2005
Upper Thamae Clinic         Public Health Nurse         Mrs Mat'sepo Moletsane
Khubetsoana Clinic          Nursing Sister              Mrs Mat'seliso Mothopeng
Qoaling Filter Clinic       Cleaner                     Mrs Ntina Sekonyela
Immaculate Health Centre    Registered Nurse            Sr. Theresa Mozie
Tsepo Health Centre         Nurse Assistant             Ms. Mookho Ntakatsane
St. James Health Centre     Nurse Clinician             Sr. Alina Mokhachane
Maryland Health Centre      Nurse Assistant             Sr. Claudia Montsi
General Public
Ha Koeneho Village          Small Scale Farmer          Mr. Leteka Motloli
Ha Duma Village             House Wife                  Mrs. 'Malimpho Moeletsi
Leribe (Maryland)           House Wife                  Mrs. 'Mathato Hlapisi
Ha Tsepo                    Student                     Lebohang
Student                     Rethabile
Student                    'Malefa
Tsosane Dump Site           Scavengers           (They would not disclose their names)
Mohale'Hoek (Ntsekhe Hospital) Street Vendors           Mrs. 'Malimakatso Mohale
Mr. Kolieile Moiloa
118



