Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  06/02/2005 
Report No.:  AC1541
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Lesotho 
Project ID:  P076658 
Project Name:  LS-Health Sec Reform Phase 2 APL (FY06) 
Task Team Leader:  Muhammad Ali Pate 
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 2, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: July 14, 2005 
Managing Unit:  AFTH1 
Lending Instrument:  Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (75%);Central government administration (10%);Health insurance 
(10%);Sub-national government administration (5%) 
Theme:  Health system performance (P);Other financial and private sector development 
(S);Nutrition and food security (S);Other communicable diseases (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
6.50 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
27.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
101.59
128.59 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The overall development objective of the Phase II of the Program (the Project) is to 
increase access to, and quality delivery of, essential health services. This development 
objective is aligned with the overall goal of the reform program to achieve a sustainable 
increase in access to quality preventive, curative and rehabilitative health services and 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component 1: Essential Health Services Delivery:  This component will focus on 
improving the effectiveness of the delivery of priority health interventions at district and 
community level.  
 
Component 2:  Strengthening Human Resources:  This component will support 
innovative approaches required to address the severe constraints in human resources.  
 
Page  2
Component 3:  Improving efficiency of health sector financing, financial management 
and planning:  This project component will support the further development and 
implementation of a national health sector financing policy.  
 
Component 4 :  Queen Elizabeth II Hospital Component.  This component will support 
preparatory work for replacing the national referral hospital in Phase III.The component 
will not finance construction of the hospital during Phase II.  A medical waste 
management plan has been developed and its implementation will be supported by the 
Phase II project.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will be implemented in all districts of the country.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt (AFTS2) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Given that the proposed project has been designed in the context of Lesotho's sector-wide 
reform program, it was determined that safe medical waste management would be of 
paramount importance to prevent any negative impacts on public health and the 
environment.    
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Increased generation of health care waste from health facilities as a result of service 
delivery.  Health care waste comprises chemical, biological and anatomical waste. If left 
unattended, long-term impacts could include groundwater and soil pollution as well as 
the spread of HIV/AIDS among health workers, scavengers and waste dump site 
operators.   
Page  3
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
In preparing this project, several alternatives were discussed, and it was determined that 
this project would best support the advancement of the sector-wide reform program in 
Lesotho.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
To be able to manage medical waste safely in the long run, the Borrower has prepared a 
National Health Care Waste Management Plan (March 2005). The Environmental Health 
Department of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare will provide the technical 
leadership in the implementation of the afore-mentioned plan.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders comprise Ministry of Health, Ministry of Local Government, 
Ministry of Justice, Health Facilities and Health Workers.  A stakeholder consultation 
was carried out during the medical waste management assessment and the dissemination 
of the report.  
 
The final National Health Care Waste Management Plan (March 2005) has been 
disclosed in Lesotho on April 27, 2005, and at the Bank's Infoshop on June 1, 2005.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/06/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/27/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
06/01/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
Page  4
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA 
report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Muhammad Ali Pate 
06/01/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt 
06/01/2005 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Muhammad Ali Pate 
06/01/2005 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Dzingai B. Mutumbuka 
06/01/2005 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Dzingai B. Mutumbuka 
06/01/2005 
Comments:   
