Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB277 
Project Name 
Health Sector Reform Phase II 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (75%);Central government administration (10%);Health 
insurance (10%);Sub-national government administration (5%) 
Project ID 
P076658 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
August 27, 2003 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 12, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 31, 2004 
 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The proposed project will finance a share of the overall Lesotho health sector reform and 
development program, which is co-financed by the Government of Lesotho and its core health 
sector development partners in a sector-wide approach.  The program has been defined in three 
phases, with the proposed project supporting the second phase (2004-2006) and building upon 
the achievements of the first phase (2000-2003) supported by IDA Credit P053200 which 
focused on institutional capacity building.  While the proposed operation will not pool funds 
with other donors in the sector, it will finance activities in the jointly agreed annual sector work 
program developed based on a common sector expenditure framework. 
 
There are very few external partners in the health sector in Lesotho.  The MOHSW works with 
WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, AfDB, Irish Aid, and the European Commission in the design, 
implementation and review of the reform program, but only WHO and UNICEF have 
international health expertise in their offices, and only Ireland Aid, AfDB and the World Bank 
provide direct financial support to the health sector.  The support from the other partners is 
focused on specific sub-sector programs (e.g., the EU has provided two long-term TA on M&E 
and on decentralization, UNICEF supports immunization, WHO supports service deliver 
standards).  The Bank is the one partner who can forge necessary linkages between the 
macroeconomic context and the health sector reforms, and the Bank Team provides a critical 
complement to the technical/policy guidance provided by other partners with its global 
experience in health systems, financing and human resources for health.   
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
The overall development objective of the reform program is to increase equitable access to 
quality preventive, curative and rehabilitative health care services in Lesotho.  The objective of 
Phase II: Policy and Institutional Reform (2003 - 2006) is to pilot or test, critically assess and 
revise proposed reform strategies.  Strategies include financing and financial management 
Page  2
 
 
reforms; performance management systems; revised protocols for more effective delivery of 
essential health services at district level; and new approaches to pharmaceutical purchasing and 
distribution.  Phase II will also support the replacement of the national referral hospital-QE II.  
These strategies will lead to improvements in the efficiency of public expenditures in health and 
services delivery with the expected result of improving health status of the Basotho 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The proposed project will support further policy and institutional reforms by testing, critically 
assessing and revising reform strategies.  This build upon Phase I of the Reform Program 
(supported by Credit 33760).
 
 
The health sector reform program is sector-wide and comprises several components.  Detailed 
description of the components of the program are outlined in the PAD referred above.  The key 
elements of the program include: i) sector financing, ii) human resource development iii) district 
health services, iv) decentralization , v) pharmaceuticals, vi) partnerships, and vii) infrastructure.  
 
The component on improving health sector financing will build upon the work done on financial 
management and information system in the first phase of the program, and will support the 
development of a health sector financing policy.  The health financing policy will address the 
role of public sector, efficiency in mobilization and allocation of public financing and the 
strategies for ensuring sustainable financing. 
 
The component on human resources will build upon the analytical work done on human 
resources in the first phase and support the testing of innovative approaches required to address 
the severe constraints in human resources identified in the first phase. The role of a MOHSW 
human resource strategy will be affected by consideration of options to increase partnerships 
with the private sector, out-sourcing and the definition of service  
delivery standards in the District Package.  
 
The hospital component will support the construction of a new Queen Elizabeth II hospital and 
support management reforms in QEII.  The government is committed to replacing the present QE 
II hospital because of its dilapidated state.  IDA and other partners will ensure that construction 
of the new referral hospital is tied to the necessary reforms in hospital administration and 
management, and is built to appropriate and sustainable standards. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
In view of the proposed construction activities and the need for medical waste management, OP 
4.01 Environmental Assessment and possibly, OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement policies will 
apply. To meet the requirements of these policies, (a) an Environmental Analysis will be carried 
out to assess the potential environmental and social impacts due to the construction of the QE II 
hospital; (b) a medical waste management plan for the project will be prepared; and if found to 
be necessary, (c) a Resettlement Policy Framework will be prepared to address potential social 
impacts due to the planned construction activities. These documents will be prepared, reviewed, 
approved and disclosed in Lesotho and at the Bank's Infoshop prior to appraisal. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Page  3
 
 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 92.5 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
OTHER PARTNERS 
12.0 
23.5 
 Total 
128.0 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Julie McLaughlin 
Title: Sr Health Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-4679 
Fax: (202) 473-8299 
Email: Jmclaughlin@worldbank.org
 
 
