Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1472 
Project Name 
LS-Health Sec Reform Phase 2 APL (FY06) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (75%); Central government administration (10%); Non-
compulsory health finance (10%); Sub-national government 
administration (5%) 
Project ID 
P076658 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO 
Implementing Agency 
 
Government of Kingdom of Lesotho 
Lesotho 
 
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare 
Box 514, Maseru 
Lesotho 
Tel: 266-22-324561 
Fax: 266-22-311014 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
x]
B
[] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 27, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
July 11, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The population health status in Lesotho has declined in the past decade after showing signs of 
improvement in the early 1980s to mid-1990s.  Average life expectancy at birth has declined, 
poverty has increased and with it the infant mortality, under-five child mortality and maternal 
mortality.  Morbidity and mortality from communicable diseases such as Tuberculosis and 
HIV/AIDS and non-communicable diseases have all increased in the recent years.  Obviously, 
the high level of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Lesotho has contributed to these negative trends but 
there is an overall sense that quality of health services delivery has also declined compared to the 
high quality primary care system that existed in the 1970s and 1980s. 
 
The declining health status of the population calls for urgent response from the Government and 
its partners in development.  The health sector reform program is central to efforts at revitalizing 
the health care delivery services, in addition to the dealing with other cross-cutting issues 
outlined in the poverty reduction strategy.   The main areas outlined for intervention in the PRS 
include: a huge imbalance between over-crowded Government health centers with highly-
subsidized fees structure and the CHAL health centers where full fees are paid; the high cost of 
medical care to providers and users; long distances to medical facilities in mountain areas; and 
the insufficient numbers of health personnel, especially in rural areas.      
 
Page  2
2. Objectives 
 
The main purpose of the Government of Lesotho’s health sector reform program, which is led by 
the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, is to achieve a sustainable increase in access to 
quality preventive, curative and rehabilitative health care services in Lesotho. 
 
The IDA program contributes to the reform program through a phased approach.  The 
first 
phase focused on strengthening institutional capacity
 in the Ministry of Health and Social 
Welfare to enable it to develop, implement and monitor a comprehensive sector reform program 
and expand the capacity of the public sector to respond to HIV/AIDS.  With the achievement of 
the first phase APL triggers, the objectives of the first phase of the program have been 
accomplished. 
 
The 
second phase of the reform program, which will be supported by the project, is focused 
on policy and institutional reforms for better service delivery
.
The original objective of the 
second phase of the reform program was to test, critically assess and revise reform strategies 
linked to improving service delivery.  Despite the progress made during the first phase of the 
program in improving the capacity of the Ministry of Health & Social Welfare, health status and 
quality of health services have declined.  The second phase was therefore partly refocused to 
concentrate on reform strategies that are linked directly to health service delivery and quality of 
care.  The project will therefore support development of health financing policy and financing 
reforms to increase efficiency of public expenditures, explore pro-poor mechanisms to improve 
the equity and sustainability of sector financing, promote out-sourcing to achieve efficiency 
gains; develop performance management system; and devise mechanisms for more effective 
delivery of essential health services at district level and below.  The project will also support 
preparations for replacing the national referral hospital to improve efficiency and effectiveness in 
service delivery at central level. 
 
The overall development objective of the Phase II project is to increase access to, and quality of, 
delivery of the essential health services.  This development objective is aligned with the overall 
goal of the reform program to achieve a sustainable increase in access to quality preventive, 
curative and rehabilitative health services and achievement of the Millennium Development 
Goals. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Donor support to the Lesotho health sector has been taking a sector-wide approach, with 
coordinated policy advice by partners, an agreed sector expenditure framework, harmonized 
fiduciary systems and performance indicators.  The Bank has played a crucial role in facilitating 
this.  The second phase will enable further development of the systems to prepare the health 
sector for budget support in the future.  The Bank will also contribute by influencing 
macroeconomic and fiscal policy as related to the health sector and health financing to ensure 
effective resource mobilization and allocation for better service delivery.  The Bank has a 
comparative advantage and experience in area of institutional development and the development 
of systems that would lead to more coordinated donor and government support to the health 
sector.    
Page  3
Few development agencies support the health sector in Lesotho. The major financing agencies 
are the African Development Bank, Development Cooperation Ireland (DCI) and IDA.  
Technical agencies of the UN such as WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA are also providing limited 
technical support, and Development Cooperation Ireland (DCI) has local technical staff.  The 
European Union, which provided substantial support through technical assistance during the first 
phase of the program, no longer provides such support.   
 
4. Description 
 
A
detailed description of the health sector reform program is outlined in the initial PAD (Report 
No: 19854-LS). The key elements of the program comprise: (i) sector financing and 
management, (ii) human resource development (iii) district health services, (iv) decentralization, 
(v) pharmaceuticals, (vi) partnerships and coordination and (vii) infrastructure. 
 
Phase II will focus on key interventions that are achievable and have the potential for greatest 
impact on quality and effectiveness of health services in Lesotho.  The Project will comprise the 
following components: 
 
Component 1: Essential Health Services Delivery
:
This component will focus on improving the 
effectiveness of the delivery of priority health interventions at district and community level.  De-
linkage of public health service management from management of hospitals at the district level 
will go a long way towards improving the allocation of resources and better primary care 
services.  This builds on reforms introduced in Phase I including the specification of an essential 
package of services.   
 
Component 2:  Strengthening Human Resources
:
This component will build on the analytical 
work done on human resources in the first phase.   A human resource needs assessment and 
strategic plan have been developed.  The project will support innovative approaches required to 
address the severe constraints in human resources, such as continuing education opportunities for 
contracted medical officers and nurses and career advancement opportunities.    
 
Component 3:  Improving Efficiency of Health Sector Financing, Financial Management and 
Planning
:
This project component will support the further development and implementation of a 
national health sector financing policy.  The health financing policy will address the role of the 
public sector, efficiency in mobilization and allocation of public financing and strategies for 
ensuring sustainable financing.   
 
Component 4:  Queen Elizabeth II Hospital Component
:
The component will support 
preparations for the replacement of the QEII hospital.  The government is committed to replacing 
the present dilapidated QE II hospital.  The construction of the new referral hospital will be tied 
to the necessary reforms in hospital administration and management.   
Medical Waste Management
:
The Project will support the implementation of a medical waste 
management plan in the health sector.  A waste management plan was developed by the 
MOHSW prior to project appraisal.  The project will finance implementation of the plan.  As part 
Page  4
of preparations for the new hospital, an Environmental Impact Assessment of construction of the 
new hospital will be conducted prior to the Phase III APL 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 60.3 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
6.5 
OTHER DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS 
68.2 
 Total 
135.0 
 
6. Implementation 
The reform program was designed after intensive consultation with internal and external 
stakeholders led by the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, including the 
GOL, MOHSW 
Health Sector Round Table Discussion: Building Partnership for the Lesotho Health Sector 
Reform, held in March 1996. 
 Annual Joint Program Reviews have conducted since 1999.  The 
joint review meetings provide forum for all stakeholders in the reform program to review 
progress in implementation of the reform program and agree on implementation program for the 
next subsequent year.  The fifth AJPR, which will be held in January 2005, will enable all 
partners to appraise the three-year sector expenditure program.  The expenditure program was 
developed based on the sector’s strategic priorities and will be the basis for each partner’s 
parallel financing to the sector in the short-term.  In the long term an agreed sector expenditure 
program should provide basis for pooling of funds when the common systems and procedures are 
fully developed.   The external partners—including the Development Cooperation Ireland, 
African Development Bank, WHO, UNICEF, UNDP and the World Bank-- have  signed a 
Statement of Intent for moving towards comprehensive sector-wide approach involving the 
development and use of common systems, procedures and performance monitoring indicators.  
 
The key internal partners to the MOHSW, CHAL have signed an interim partnership agreement 
with the MOHSW.  During the second phase a formal contract will be expected to be signed.  
The formal contract should identify the resource transfers that CHAL will expect and the service 
delivery outputs that will be expected by the MOHSW. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The Government’s commitment to the program has been sustained through the first 
Phase and its ownership of the process reinforced at the annual joint reviews. The senior 
management team in the Ministry of Health, under the leadership of the Principle Secretary,  
assumed primary responsibility for program implementation during the first phase.  Despite 
changes at the senior level in the MOHSW and also amongst the development partners, the 
objectives of the first phase of the reform program have been accomplished.  With development 
of the sector-wide approach and the requisite systems and procedures, the sustainability of the 
reform program is considered highly likely.   The strengthened financial management systems 
and development of a medium-term sector program and budget that is linked to sector priorities 
(and the GoL’s MTEF ultimately), the sustainability of the financing of the reform program is 
also considered likely.     
 
Page  5
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The preparation of the Implementation Completion Report for the Phase I project was started 
earlier so that the lessons learned during Phase I could be incorporated into the design of the 
Phase II project.  The main lessons learned during Phase I, which were incorporated into the 
design of Phase II, are as follows:   
 
a)  Country ownership and commitment to the reform process is key to successful 
implementation of the reform program.   Phase I was preceded by deep consultation among 
stakeholders on the vision for the reforms.  Implementation of Phase I enabled more ownership 
of the reform process to be vested on the senior management team.  Phase II will continue to 
nurture the ownership of the reform process by the senior management team in the MOHSW.  
The medium term sector program developed from the national health policy and strategic plan 
will ensure that the reform program remains consistent with the Government’s strategic vision. 
 
b)  Behavior change takes time.  The implementation of Phase I took longer than originally 
planned. The time produce and endorse planned outputs took longer than expected, such as 
policy decisions and actions in areas such as human resource for health, decentralization etc.  
Phase II Project will focus more intensely on a narrower set of identified priorities and set 
realistic timelines for achieving objectives based on experience during Phase I. 
 
c)  Significant progress was made in planning and financial management capacity during Phase I. 
This capacity is required to release constraints to the effective management of public health 
programs and service delivery.   Phase II will utilize these now existing capacities so that they 
can be strengthened and institutionalized within the MOHSW.   Accounting systems and 
procedures, procurement and monitoring and evaluation represent some of the areas where 
capacity has been built.  The analysis and studies conducted during Phase I will be 
operationalized during Phase II. 
 
d)  There is strong need to balance improvements in health sector processes with a focus on 
improving health services delivery.  There has been a decline in health sector status indicators 
such ANC attendance, deliveries assisted by trained provider, CPR etc. during the years Phase I 
was being implemented. The National Tuberculosis Program in Lesotho is at the verge of 
collapsing.  The Phase II project will deal with health service delivery issues building upon the 
processes developed—linking financing to priority service delivery, human resource deployment 
for better quality of care etc. 
 
e)  Health care delivery is human resource intensive, and institutional capacity cannot be 
achieved without sufficient human capacity. Phase I supported analyses of health manpower 
(numbers, skills, deployment and motivation). During Phase II, innovative strategies for 
retention and performance improvement of health sector workers will be tested.  For example, 
Phase II project will support incentive package for health workers deployed in remote areas. 
 
f)  Continued monitoring and evaluation of the reform process is key to assessing the impact of 
the reform strategies. During Phase II of the reforms, there will be a greater emphasis on 
Page  6
integrating the M&E system with management and decision making at all levels.  Program 
planning will be linked to monitor-able indicators in line with the strategic plan.   
 
h)  Queen Elizabeth II (QEII) accounts for substantial portion of the MOHSW recurrent cost and 
human resource needs and, unlike the district hospitals, its infrastructure is beyond repair. 
Studies supported under Phase I included an economic analysis of the referral system and 
produced cost-effective recommendations for replacing QEII within the context of the overall 
referral system. Phase II will support the hospital reforms necessary to ensure that a new QE II 
will be more efficiently managed and that the national referral system if more functional.  Any 
new infrastructure development will have to be supported with a clear provision of maintenance. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
]
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
]
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[
]
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[
]
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[
]
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[
]
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[
]
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
]
The project is designated Category B, requiring partial assessment.  A medical waste 
management assessment and plan has been developed and will be implemented during the 
project.   
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
1. Demographic health survey 2001 
2. Baseline health survey 
3. Health Sector Reform Strategy 
4. Sectoral round table Consultation document 1999 
5. Health and Social Welfare policy _ Final Draft Sep 21, 2003 
6. Economic Study of Referral health services in Lesotho: The future of QEII Hospital 
–
i) 
Review of Findings and Recommendations (Boston University) ii) Executive Summary and 
Final report Vol.1. 
7. District health package – Final Report, June 2003 
8. Annual Joint Review Report - 2004/05 
9. Medium- Term Expenditure Framework 2005/08 
10. National Medical Waste Management Plan 2005-2008. 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
11. Contact point 
Contact: Muhammad Ali Pate 
Title: Public Health Spec., HQ 
Tel: (202) 473-4463 
Fax:  
Email: mpate@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The Info Shop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
