                                                                                                       97557
Lesotho: Health Sector Reform Program Phase II                                                September 20, 2010




 LESOTHO HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM

 Improving Access to and Quality of Health Services in
 a High HIV-Prevalence Setting




Overview
Lesotho’s challenges in the healthcare sector are daunting: battling the world’s third highest
HIV/AIDS prevalence rate (23 percent for adults aged 15-49), life expectancy of 45 years, and
demand that consistently outstrips the state’s ability to provide vital health care services. The
Health Sector Reform Program has successfully helped the country improve essential health
care services for the poor through improved antenatal care, reduced hospital waiting time, a
higher tuberculosis cure rate, and expanded access to services preventing mother-to-child
transmission of HIV/AIDS.


Challenge
Following 15 years of steady improvement in the early
                                                                    More Results
1980s, Lesotho’s public health sector steadily declined in the
mid-1990s. While this decline coincided with the onset of the

                                                                    98.1%
HIV/AIDS pandemic, there was also an overall sense that the
high-quality primary care system developed in the 1970s and
1980s was no longer able to deliver the same level of health
services. As poverty increased from 1995-2005, morbidity            coverage of DPT3 (diphtheria,
                                                                    pertussis, tetanus) vaccine, one
and mortality from non-communicable and communicable                of the highest in Africa
diseases (tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS, etc.) became more
frequent. As a result, the average life expectancy at birth fell
by 13 years (from 59 to 46 years). It became exceedingly
difficult for the poor to obtain access to quality essential
health care. As understaffed and ill-equipped public hospitals
were inundated with patients, waiting times ballooned to
                                                                    26%
                                                                    increase in prevention of
more than seven hours. Meanwhile, those living in remote            Mother-to-Child HIV
rural areas and the mountains found themselves increasingly         Transmission from 2004-2009

isolated from even the most basic care.


Approach
In response to these urgent needs, Lesotho’s Ministry of
                                                                    10%
                                                                    increase in modern
Health and Social Welfare joined with development partners          contraceptive prevalence rate
to achieve a sustainable increase in access to quality              (CPR) from 2004-2009
preventive, curative, and rehabilitative health care services.
Specifically, the program targeted a huge imbalance between
over-crowded government health centers and the non-
                                                                   MORE INFORMATION
governmental health centers, the high cost of medical care,
long distances to medical facilities in mountain areas, and          Lesotho Health Sector Reform
the insufficient numbers of health personnel, especially in          Program
rural areas.                                                         Ministry of Health and Social
                                                                     Welfare
The project not only assembled and deployed outreach-
based District Management Health Teams to deliver                    Global Partnership on Output-
community health services, but it was highly instrumental in         Based Aid (GPOBA) Project
the launch of the first-ever Public-Private Partnership (PPP)        Profile
among International Development Association (IDA) African            International Finance
countries for replacing the national hospital. Under the PPP,        Corporation of the World Bank
the government of Lesotho selected Netcare, one of Africa’s          Group (IFC) Smart Lessons
largest health care providers through a bidding process to           PPP Press Release
design, construct, and operate a new national hospital for 18
years. The government’s payments to Netcare will be
performance-based. This PPP is expected to improve both
access and quality of clinical services in the country.


Results
Despite the HIV epidemic challenge, Lesotho continues to improve the coverage of essential
health services. The IDA-financed Health Sector Reform Program Phase II is helping enhance
and expand these essential services. Results from community health services delivered by
outreach-based District Management Health Teams and from the Public Private Partnership
thus far include:

      Continued increase in the coverage of DPT3 (diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus) vaccine,
      reaching 91.8 percent in 2009, one of the highest coverage rates in Africa;

      Increase in the percentage of antenatal care by a health professional from 90.4 in 2004
      to 91.8 in 2009;

      Increase in deliveries in a health facility from 52.4 percent in 2004 to 58.7 percent in
      2009;

      Increase in modern contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) from 37 percent in 2004 to 47
      percent in 2009;

      Increase in prevention of Mother-to-Child HIV Transmission from 5 percent in 2005 to
      31 percent in 2009, largely driven by the increase in number of health facilities providing
      mother-to-child HIV transmission prevention services from 9 to 136 facilities;

      Significant decline in patient average wait times, particularly at Lesotho’s largest
      hospital, Queen Elizabeth II, where it fell from seven hours before the reform to one
      hour 27 minutes in 2009.



Bank Contribution
IDA’s contribution of US$6.5 million equivalent has been leveraged with financing from other
donors and the government of Lesotho to cover the US$135.1 million cost of the overall health
sector reform.


Partners
Eight development partners have joined with the government to finance and implement the
Health Sector Reform Program. In addition to IDA, these partners include the Development
Cooperation-Ireland, the European Union, the United States Government, World Health
Organization (WHO), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP), and the African Development Bank. All partners have established a
common fiduciary system for the program and carry out the monitoring jointly.


Moving Forward
The public-private partnership ensures that the benefits from the health sector reform will
continue indefinitely. In addition, the government of Lesotho continues to finance and
implement the reforms introduced by the program. The involvement of Netcare, one of Africa’s
largest health care providers, as well as a coalition of public and private financiers is meant to
ensure that project deliverables continue to generate results to beneficiaries long after the
project has closed.


Beneficiaries
The poorest in Lesotho, many of whom had been without access to proper healthcare for
years, are the immediate beneficiaries of the Health Sector Reform Program. Other
beneficiaries include all citizens of Lesotho, including mothers, infants, and children who are
benefiting from the additional health clinics, reduced wait time, greater access to vaccines, and
other critical basic health services. Additionally, children born to HIV-positive mothers have a
better chance at life given the increase in prevention of Mother-to-Child HIV Transmission from
3.1 percent in the 1970s to 31 percent in 2009.
