Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1958 ZR
                (Agricultural Sector Management and
                Institutional Development Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 29, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1958 ZR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 29,  1988,  between the REPUBLIC OF
ZAIRE     (the   Borrower)   and   the  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower  intends  to  receive  from  the Kingdom of
Belgium (Belgium) a grant (the Belgian  Grant) in an amount of one
hundred million Belgian francs to  assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and  conditions  set forth in an agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and Belgium; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed  on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account"  means  any  or  all  of  the accounts
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (b)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters  dated  March  30, 1988 and May 23, 1988
between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to nine million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,000,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in  accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1  to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so  agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open  and  maintain  in  dollars   three  special  accounts  in  a
commercial  bank  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Association: Special Account A,  to  be operated by the Department
responsible for agriculture  for  Parts  A  and  D of the Project;
Special Account B, to  be  operated  by the Department responsible
for rural development  for  Part  B  of  the  Project; and Special
Account C,  to  be  operated  by  the  Department  responsible for
forestry and environmental  affairs  for  Part  C  of the Project.
Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3.  The  Closing  Date  shall  be  June  30, 1996,
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
Page  3
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year, as specified in Section  2.06 of this Agreement, except that
the rate set as of June  30,  1988  shall be applied as of July 1,
1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on  each  June 15 and December 15,
commencing December  15,  1998  and  ending  June  15,  2028. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on June 15,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  4
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
its Departments responsible,  respectively, for agriculture, rural
development and for  forestry  and  environmental affairs with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
economic,  financial  and   administrative  practices,  and  shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  In order to assist  in  the  carrying out of the Project
and especially to examine and approve the annual work programs and
budgets  therefor,  the  Borrower  shall  maintain  a Coordinating
Committee chaired  by  the  Secretary  General  of  the Department
responsible for agriculture  and  comprising the Secretary General
of the  Departments  responsible  for  rural  development  and for
forestry and environment. Said  Committee  shall be assisted by an
Executive   Secretary    with    qualifications   and   experience
satisfactory to the Association; the  Directors of the services in
such Departments benefitting  from  the  Project  shall attend the
meetings of the Committee.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and,  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The  Project  shall be carried out pursuant
to annual three-year rolling work programs and budgets prepared in
the context of the  Borrower's  normal budgetary procedures by the
members  of  the  Coordinating  Committee  and  including:  (i) an
evaluation of the previous year's performance; (ii) a statement of
objectives to be achieved in the coming year and the activities to
be conducted for the purpose;  (iii) plans for staffing and train-
ing; (iv) the budget for the  Project for the coming year together
with a financing plan showing  the  sources of funds; and (v) pro-
curement plans for goods  and services, including proposed bidding
procedures and timetables.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Association by the end
of June in each  year  for  comment  and  approval the annual work
program and budget for the following year.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall  ensure that the Executive
Secretary of the Coordinating  Committee  monitors the progress of
the Project and reports  to  the  Committee thereon at least every
six months.
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall,  through the Coordinating
Committee, furnish to the Association by  March 31 in each year an
annual report on the  progress  of  the Project, together with the
related consolidated accounts.
     Section 3.06. The qualification and experience of individuals
charged with carrying out  the  study  comprising  Part D.4 of the
Project,  as  well  as   their   terms   of  reference,  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association;   the   results  of,  and  the
recommendations of the  Borrower  based  on,  such  study shall be
furnished to the Association by the end of June 1989.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  5
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting   practices  the  operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Accounts, audited  for each fiscal year
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or payments  out of a Special Account were
made on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               or payment out of a  Special Account  was made, all
               records   (contracts,   orders,   invoices,  bills,
               receipts  and  other   documents)  evidencing  such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such  records  and accounts be included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and that  the report of such audits
               contain a separate opinion  by  said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the Belgian Grant  shall  have  failed to become effective by
June 30, 1989, or such  later  date  as the Association may agree;
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply if  the  Borrower  establishes  to  the  satisfaction of the
Association that adequate funds  for  the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
Page  6
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
     Section 6.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  Commissioner  of  State  of  the Borrower
responsible for finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.O3  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Departement des Finances
          Boite Postale No. 12997
          Kinshasa 1
          Republic of Zaire
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                DENFIN                         21161 KIN GOMBE
                Kinshasa
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                          By /s/ Mushobekwa Kalimba Wa Katana
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
Page  7
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Parts A and D
of the Project
(1)  Consultants'                3,600,000       100%
     and experts'
     services
(2)  Training includ-              310,000       100%
     ing travel and
     per diem
(3)  Vehicles, equip-              390,000       100% of foreign
     ment, furniture                             expenditures and
     and materials                               90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(4)  Operation and main-           620,000       90% of local
     tenance of Project                          expenditures
     vehicles and equip-
     ment
(5)  Refurbishing of               150,000       90% of local
     office space                                expenditures
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Part B of the Project
(6)  Consultants'                  470,000       100%
     and experts'
     services
(7)  Training includ-               40,000       100%
     ing travel and
     per diem
(8)  Vehicles, equip-              200,000       100% of foreign
     ment, furniture                             expenditures and
     and materials                               90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(9)  Operation and main-           300,000       90% of local
     tenance of Project                          expenditures
     vehicles and equip-
     ment
Part C of the Project
(10) Consultants' and              780,000       100%
     experts' services
Page  8
(11) Training, includ-              40,000       100%
     ing travel and
     per diem
(12) Vehicles, equip-               80,000       100% of foreign
     ment, furniture and                         expenditures and
     materials                                   90% of local
                                                 expenditures
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(13) Operation and main-           150,000      90% of local
     tenance of Project                         expenditures
     vehicles and equip-
     ment
Other
(14) Refunding of                  850,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(15) Unallocated                 1,020,000
                                 _________
         TOTAL                   9,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in  respect of payments for expenditures
made prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the   Project   are  to  strengthen  the
capacities of  the  Departments  of  the  Borrower responsible for
agriculture,  rural   development,   forestry   and  environmental
affairs.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Department Responsible for Agriculture
1.   Development of annual work programs.
2.   Development  of  comprehensive   annual  budgets  and  public
expenditure programs, including public investment programs.
3.   Sector  studies,  surveys   and   preparation  of  investment
projects.
4.   Monitoring and field supervision of development projects.
Page  9
5.   Institutional  assessment  of   the  Direction  des  Services
Generaux (DSG),  including  personnel  data  management systems, a
review of the  DSG's  functions,  a  review  of the job inspection
function, and  introduction  of  procedures  for staff performance
evaluation.
6.   Staffing and functional review.
7.   Training.
8.   Procurement for the  above  of  vehicles, furniture and data-
processing and office equipment and supplies.
9.   Refurbishing of office space.
Part B:   Department Responsible for Rural Development
1.   Development of annual work programs.
2.   Development  of  comprehensive   annual  budgets  and  public
expenditures programs, including public investment programs.
3.   Sector  studies,  surveys   and   preparation  of  investment
projects.
4.   Monitoring and field supervision of development projects.
5.   Staffing and functional review.
6.   Training.
7.   Procurement for the  above  of  vehicles, furniture and data-
processing and other office equipment and supplies.
Part C:   Department Responsible for Forestry and Environment
1.   Development of annual studies-and-planning work programs.
2.   Development  of  comprehensive   annual  budgets  and  public
expenditure programs, including public investment programs.
3.   Sector  studies,  surveys   and   preparation  of  investment
projects.
4.   Training.
5.   Procurement for the  above  of  vehicles, furniture and data-
processing and office equipment and supplies.
Part D:   Coordinating Committee.
1.   Secretariat services for the Coordinating Committee.
2.   Procurement of  vehicles,  furniture  and data-processing and
office equipment and supplies.
3.   Refurbishing of office space.
4.   Carrying out a study of the organization and functions of the
Departments responsible for agriculture  and for rural development
designed to identify  the  means  of  ensuring  the most efficient
allocation   and   use   of   their   respective   resources   and
responsibilities.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
Page  10
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means,  in  the case of
Special Account A, to  be  operated  by the Department responsible
for agriculture, Categories 1 through 5  set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement;  in  the case of
Special Account B, to  be  operated  by the Department responsible
for rural development, Categories 6 through  9 and; in the case of
Special Account C, to  be  operated  by the Department responsible
for forestry and environment, Categories 10 through 13 therein set
forth;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation"  means,  in the case of
Special Account A, an amount  of  $400,000; in the case of Special
Account B, an  amount  of  $100,000  and  in  the  case of Special
Account C, an amount of $100,000,  to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account  and  deposited  into   the  respective  Special  Accounts
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Accounts  shall  be  made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Accounts may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for  deposits  which   add   up   to   the  respective  Authorized
Allocations, the Association  shall,  on  behalf  of the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Accounts such amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Accounts at such intervals or in
such minimum amounts  as  the  Association  shall  specify. On the
basis of such requests,  the  Association  shall withdraw from the
Credit Account and  deposit  into  the appropriate Special Account
such amounts  as  shall  be  required  to  replenish  such Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  such  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Association from the Credit
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the
evidence  supporting  the  request  for  such  deposits  furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association, prior to
or at the time of any request for replenishment, or at the request
of the  Association,  such  documents  and  other  evidence as the
Association shall reasonably  request,  showing  that such payment
was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into  a Special Account shall be made
by the Association when  either  of the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
Page  11
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the  General  Conditions  shall be equal to
               the  equivalent  of   twice   the   amount  of  the
               Authorized  Allocation  relating   to  the  Special
               Account covering such Categories.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to such
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special  Accounts  as  of  the  date  of  such  notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  a  Special  Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association,  deposit into the appropriate Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so  eligible  or justified. No further deposit
by the Association into such  Special  Account shall be made until
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  a  Special  Account  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Study on the Organization           Conclusions and
of the Departments                  recommendations to be
Responsible for Agriculture         furnished to the
and for Rural Development:          Association by the
                                    end of June 1989
Studies and Project Preparation:    By June 30  every year, sector
                                    studies  and   project  briefs
                                    will  be   prepared   for  the
                                    following three  years,  to be
                                    included  in  the  annual work
                                    program.
Public Expenditures Program:        will be reviewed by July 31 at
                                    the  latest   every  year  and
                                    discussed with  the Department
                                    responsible for planning.
Training Programs:                  to  be  prepared  by  June  30
                                    every year.
Financial Management:               review of  existing budgeting,
                                    accounting,  financial control
                                    and internal  auditing systems
                                    by    December    1989,    and
Page  12
                                    implementation    of   revised
                                    delineation                 of
                                    responsibilities  by  June 30,
                                    1991.
Human Resources:                    assessment  of  the  Direction
                                    des Services  Generaux  of the
                                    Department   responsible   for
                                    agriculture by the end of June
                                    1990.
                                    Human  Resources  Rationaliza-
                                    tion     Plan     (Departments
                                    responsible   for  agriculture
                                    and  for   rural  development)
                                    with alternative  scenarios to
                                    be  completed  by  the  end of
                                    June 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 5
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   For the purpose of  inviting  bids,  similar or related goods
capable of being furnished by a  single bidder shall be grouped in
lots of at least a total value of $50,000 equivalent.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in Zaire may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $200,000 without the prior approval of
the Association, as  well  as  contracts  for  the refurbishing of
office space, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of  price  quotations  solicited  from  a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   Potential contractors for  the  refurbishing  of office space
shall be given the option  of  providing quotations for any or all
of the works to be carried out under the Project.
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the equi-
valent of $50,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  13
2.   With respect to each  contract  not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  3  and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made  out  of  the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of
the contract together with  the  other  information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to  the  Association  as  part  of  the  evidence  to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not
apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the  Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
4.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  the  Borrower  in  carry out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ  such consultants, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory  to  the  Association,  as  shall  be  agreed  to  by  the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
