Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16645
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2673-MLI)
June 5, 1997
Country Department for Mali
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = CFA 487 (first tranche 2/95)
US$1 = CFA 507 (second tranche 4/96)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
ESAC               Education Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GOM                Government of Mali
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IEC                Information, Education and Comnmunication
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
MOP                Memorandum of the President
PAC                Pedagogic Assistance Centers
PFP                Policy Framework Paper
SIP                 Sector Investment Program
SECAL              Sectoral Adjustment Loan
SDR                Standard Drawing Rights
SY                 School Year
TA                 Teaching Advisors
TORs               Terms of Reference
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
WAEMU              West African Economic and Monetary Union
Fiscal Year of Borrower                             Academic Year of Borrower
January 1-December 31                                          October-June
Vice President           Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director         Hasan Tuluy
Technical Manager        Ok Pannenborg
Contact Staff Member     Penelope Bender



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface.
Evaluation Summary ............................................................. ii
Introduction.ii
Project Objectives .............................................................ii
Implementation Experience and Results ..........................................................
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned .............. iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................................I
A. Introduction .1
B. Project Background .I
C.   Project Objectives and Description                     .3
D.  Achievement of Project Objectives                       .3
E.     Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project      .      7
F.  Project Sustainability                            .7
G. Bank's Performance                                .8
H.  Borrower's Performance                             .8
I.  Assessment of Outcome                              .9
J. Future Operations                                .9
K. Key Lessons Leamed                                 .9
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...........................11
Table 1: Summary of Assessment.                                                      I I
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .12
Table 3: Project Timetable .13
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .13
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .14
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation .15
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8A: Project Costs .18
Table 8B: Project Financing .18
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .20
Table I 1:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .22
Appendix A:  Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix B:   Borrower's contribution to the ICR
Appendix C:   Map IBRD 28515
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2673-MLI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education Sector
Adjustment Credit (ESAC) in Mali, for which Credit 2673-MLI in the amount of SDR
34.3 million (US$50 million equivalent) was approved on January 12, 1995 and made
effective on February 27, 1995.
The credit was closed on the original closing date of December 31, 1996. The
first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by March 23, 1995. The
second and final tranche was released on April 12, 1996, and the credit was fully
disbursed by July 18, 1996. Parallel financing was provided in the amount of US $44.7
million equivalent by the Government of Japan, US$ 3.2 million equivalent by the
Government of Belgium and US$ 25.6 million equivalent by the Government of the
Netherlands.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's completion mission of November
1996 and is based on material from the project file, data provided by the Ministries of
Basic Education and Higher Education and discussions with Ministry officials. The
borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing a separate evaluation of the
project and commenting on the draft ICR.
The ICR was prepared by Penelope Bender (Task Team Leader, AFTH2) and
Myrina McCullough (Program Assistant, AFTH2). It was reviewed by Ok Pannenborg
(Technical Manager, AFTH2), Samuel Carlson (former Task Manager, EDIHR),
Djamalddine Rouag (former Task Manager, AFTH2), William Cooper (Consultant), and
Hasan Tuluy (Director, CD1 5).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2673-MLI)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Education Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) in Mali, IDA Credit 2673-MLI
for SDR 34.3 million, was approved on January 12, 1995 and made effective on February
27, 1995. It followed four education investment projects financed by IDA in Mali since
1973. The first three projects addressed vocational education and training, agricultural
education, basic education, literacy, institutional development and the training of
agricultural and livestock technicians. The fourth project had both investment and
adjustment components and focused on expanding primary enrollment and improving
education quality. Although a series of activities were implemented under the investment
component of this project and the initial reforms planned for the adjustment components
were carried out as planned, the second and third tranches of the credit were canceled due
to political events, including a change of government, which made it impossible to
complete the project. In 1994, the new Government reasserted its commitment to reform
in the sector and preparation of the ESAC began. The ESAC was prepared in conjunction
with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), in order to achieve a close fit between
CAS objectives and project objectives.
2.   In 1994, the performance of the education sector was extremely poor. The gross
primary enrollment rate was stagnant at around 25%. At the secondary level, the
enrollment rate increased slightly between 1970 and 1993, from 5% to 6%. Higher
education expanded dramatically in the same time period, from 2,737 students in 1974 to
8,354 in 1993. The sector was characterized by limited management and technical
capacity. It was agreed by the GOM and the Bank that investments in the sector were
unlikely to have much impact until distortions in resource allocation and use were
corrected. Accordingly, a two-step strategy was planned for the development of the
education sector. The first step was an adjustment program to remove structural
constraints to the efficient use of sector resources, supported by this ESAC. The second
step was a sector investment program (currently under preparation), tied to efficiency
improvements accomplished under the ESAC.
Project Objectives
3.    The reforms that were promoted through this credit aimed at establishing
conditions conducive to accelerating the development of primary education, through
improving quality at all levels, better adjusting post-primary education to labor market
demands and strengthening of management capacity in the sector. The measures were



Evaluation Summary                                                       iii
grouped under four policy objectives: (a) improved allocation of resources; (b) increased
efficiency; (c) protection of quality inputs; and (d) mobilization of non-public resources.
4.    Project objectives were consistent with the Government's education sector
development strategy. They were consistent with the need to develop a comprehensive
response to existing distortions and focused on reforms with the greatest potential impact.
However, the objectives required consensus and political will, which were difficult to
achieve and maintain, given the political context. As it was an adjustment credit, no
funding was earmarked to assist the GOM in the implementation of the reforms. Release
of the second tranche of the Credit was particularly difficult as it depended on the
simultaneous implementation of several controversial reforms.
Implementation Experience and Results
Achievement of Objectives and Sustainability
5.    Although most tranche release conditionalities were met (one was waived) and the
project was completed within the schedule set at appraisal, not all global objectives were
achieved. In a few cases, targets were exceeded, but a number of the conditions were
only minimally satisfied. Sustainability seems likely for the less controversial reforms,
but a few, including the ceiling on scholarship expenditures, had already been reversed by
the closing date of the credit. There were no qualified audit reports, but the final audit
report had not yet been received at the Bank by the date of this ICR, although the contract
was signed in March 1996.
6.    The credit was released on time and in two tranches as planned. The first tranche
of SDR 20.5 million (US$31 million) was released at effectiveness and the second
tranche of SDR 13.8 million (US$20,4 million) was released after satisfactory
implementation of the conditionalities specified in the President's Report. Parallel
financing was provided in the amount of US $44.7 million equivalent by the Government
of Japan, and US$ 3.2 million equivalent and US$ 25.6 million equivalent by the
Governments of Belgium and the Netherlands, respectively and was tied to release of the
IDA credit monies.
7.    The key factors that positively affected the achievement of major project
objectives included the GOM's commitment to the implementation of the reform program
and intensive Bank supervision, which was made possible by the presence of the task
manager in the resident mission. Factors which made implementation difficult included
uncertainty resulting from political transition, the politicization of the sector, protests and
social unrest caused by resistance to the reform program and a project design that
required the simultaneous implementation of numerous reform measures.
8.    IDA played a very active role in project preparation and design. Identification,
appraisal and implementation were strengthened by the permanent presence in the
resident mission of the task manager for this project.  This intense dialogue and
collaboration, combined with the amounts of money that were available for adjustment



iv                                    ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
from the four participating donors, may have led the GOM to accept reform measures
whose achievement it could not guarantee, given the political risk and the GOM's
fragility. IDA's performance is rated satisfactory.
9.    Borrower performance is also rated satisfactory. Tranche release conditionalities
were satisfied and the tranches were released as scheduled. However, Government
commitment to reform was swayed by pressure from students and teachers, and some of
the reforms were reversed prior to the closing date of the credit. In retrospect, both the
Bank and the Borrower were overly confident that an ambitious reform program could be
implemented and sustained in a period of political transition, by a government
preoccupied with maintaining political stability and social peace in the face of
considerable pressure brought to bear by the students' and teachers' unions.
10.   Project outcome is rated satisfactory, but its sustainability is uncertain. The credit
pushed the GOM to redeploy staff from administrative tasks to teaching positions in
primary schools, introduce double shift teaching in the first three grades of primary and
increase the resources available for teaching and learning materials. It also ensured the
continuation of dialogue around spending on and access to secondary and higher
education, although it was not successful in substantially changing GOM strategies for
these sub-sectors.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
Findings
11.   Adjustment lending proved to be a viable, if somewhat blunt, way to encourage
short-term reform in difficult areas of sector policy. It is not clear, however, that the
Bank adequately estimated either the political risks or GOM commitment, judging from
the social unrest that began before the approval of the credit and continued throughout the
implementation. The resource constraints faced by the GOM during the implementation
period constituted an incentive to implement reforms that could not be sustained, and the
Bank's wish to keep the macro-economic framework on track made it difficult to
maintain a firm position, especially as regards the release of the second tranche.
Future Operations and Sustainability
12.   Sustainability of the reform measures, especially those which concern higher
education, is uncertain. Measures such as double-shift teaching are expected to be
expanded. Others, such as spending on scholarships and teaching and leaming materials
have not been sustained, and remain the object of intense policy dialogue between the
GOM and donors, as part of the development of a ten-year sector development
framework. An Education Sector Investment Program (EDSIP) is under preparation.
The development of the program that will be financed by IDA, especially decisions
regarding investment in the secondary and or higher education sub-sectors, will be
contingent upon the GOM's ability to sustain and strengthen the reforms initiated under
the ESAC.



Evaluation Summary                                                     v
Key Lessons Learned
13.   Lessons for the future include: (a) the decision to use adjustment lending to
encourage policy reform must take into consideration the level of a government's need
for resources, the strength of the government's mandate and the power of diverse
constituencies and reflect an analysis of the government's ability to commit to reform in
light of that need; (b) up-front and on-going participation of all major stakeholders in the
design of reforms is essential; (c) public discussion and debate and carefully developed
information campaigns must be organized, pre-tested and conducted prior to and during
the implementation of reforms; and (d) if adjustment lending is to produce desired
results, the Bank must be prepared to cancel or reduce credit amounts if reforms are not
achieved. This may be very difficult to do when the country is dependent on adjustment
financing to achieve macro-economic objectives. In addition, when it is agreed that
successful completion of an adjustment program is the first step in the development of an
investment program, the decisions of the country not to maintain the most substantial and
difficult reforms require the Bank to continue to negotiate, and to be prepared to reduce
the scope of planned Bank support for the sector, if reform is not forthcoming.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2673 -ML)
Part I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction
1.    Mali began to implement a macro-economic adjustment program in mid-1992,
supported by IDA (Credit No. 2188-MLI), the IMF and other multilateral and bilateral
donors. In early 1994, the GOM strengthened its adjustment strategy through the
devaluation of the CFA franc in coordination with its West African Economic and
Monetary Union (WAEMU) partners. Performance under the program in 1994 and 1995
was considered fully satisfactory.
2.    Over the period 1992-95, Mali made progress in reducing financial imbalances,
liberalizing its economy and creating a sound basis for sustainable economic growth.
Wide-ranging structural measures were implemented, including the privatization,
liquidation or restructuring of public enterprises and the implementation of agricultural
sector reforms designed to reduce production costs and expand and diversify output.
However, real GDP growth averaged only 3 percent annually over the period 1992-94,
barely sufficient to keep up with population growth. In 1995, real growth increased to 6
percent, reflecting strong performance in the agriculture sector and in textiles and
construction. Progress in implementing reforms in the social sectors, particularly in
education, was relatively slow until 1995, and access to social services improved only
marginally during that time.
3.    By 1995, agricultural reforms and the devaluation of the CFA franc had boosted
rural incomes, but the impact of the adjustment program on poverty reduction and living
conditions was modest. Approximately 72 percent of the population lived below the
poverty line, and there was evidence of rising poverty in urban areas. Based on these
factors, the GOM indicated its desire to improve the poverty impact of its adjustment
program.
B.   Project Background
4.    In 1994, the education sector employed about 44% of the total civil service and
managed over 20%  of the recurrent budget.  Despite this level of support, the
performance of the sector was extremely poor. The sector was characterized by limited
management and technical capacity. The gross primary enrollment rate was stagnant at
around 25%, excluding the Koranic schools (SSA average was 77%), one of the five



2                                      ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
lowest in the world. The adult literacy rate was less than 20% (SSA average was 52%).
Repetition rates were approximately 30% per year in the primary grades. At the
secondary level, the enrollment rate increased slightly between 1970 and 1993, from 5%
to 6%. Higher education expanded dramatically over the same time period, from 700
students in 1970 to 10,030 in 1993.
5.    The Education Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) was prepared after extensive
discussions with the GOM about the persistence of extremely low rates of primary school
enrollment and the poor quality of all levels of education. It was agreed by the GOM, the
Bank and many other donors (notably the Japanese, Belgian and Dutch governments) that
the inefficient allocation and use of public resources for education constituted the most
important constraint to the development of the sector, and that the extremely low level of
educational attainment of the population posed a serious problem for Mali's long term
economic and social development. Furthermore, it was agreed that investments in the
sector were unlikely to have much impact until distortions in resource allocation and use
were corrected. Accordingly, the GOM and the Bank agreed on a two-step strategy for
the development of the education sector. The first step was an adjustment program to
remove structural constraints to the efficient use of sector resources, supported by this
ESAC. The second step was a sector investment program, (currently under preparation)
tied to efficiency improvements accomplished under the ESAC.
6.    The ESAC followed four education investment projects financed by IDA in Mali
since 1973, including: (i) the First Education Project (US$5.5 million), which targeted
vocational education and training; (ii) the Second Education Project in 1977 (US$10
million), which emphasized agricultural education and included a functional literacy
program; (iii) the Third Education Project in 1983 (US$9.5 million), which addressed
institutional development, the expansion of basic education and improvement of the
quality of agricultural and livestock technicians; and (iv) the Education Sector
Consolidation Project in 1989 (US$49 million), which combined investment and
adjustment components and focused on expanding primary enrollment and improving
education quality. Although a series of activities were implemented under the investment
component of this project and the initial reforms planned for the adjustment components
were carried out as planned, the second and third tranches of the credit were canceled due
to political events, including a change of government, which made it impossible to
complete the project. In 1994, the new Government reasserted commitment to reform in
the sector and preparation of the ESAC began.
7.    Three other donors--the Japanese, the Dutch, and the Belgians--linked
disbursement of general grant funds to the IDA tranche release conditionalities, although
they were not formal co-financiers of the credit. The total amount disbursed was $124.9
million, broken down as follows: Japan--$44.7 million; IDA--$51.4 million; Government
of Netherlands--$25.6 million; and Government of Belgium--$3.2 million.



Project Implementation Assessment                                          3
C.    Project Objectives and Description
8.    The purpose of this operation was to provide critical balance of payment support
in conjunction with the promotion of structural reforms urgently needed to improve the
performance and organization of the education system:
(a) Improved allocation of resources through measures aimed at promoting resource
allocation to primary education and ensuring that the budget is structured in a
manner that reflects this priority as well as that of improving the quality of all
levels of education;
(b) Increased efficiency in the use of resources through measures geared to increasing
access at marginal cost;
(e) Protection of quality inputs using measures targeting improved pedagogical support
to teaching and increased availability of teaching materials at all levels of
education; and
(d) Mobilizing non-public resources by encouraging private and community financing
for primary education.
9.    The ESAC's objectives were clear and targeted priority areas.  They were
consistent with the need to develop a comprehensive response to existing distortions and
focused on reforms with the greatest potential impact. However, they required consensus
and political will, which were difficult to achieve and maintain, given the political
context. As it was an adjustment credit, no funding was earmarked to assist the GOM in
the implementation of the reforms. It was evident from the design stage of the program
that the strategy would be risky, given the experience of the Education Sector
Consolidation Project. However, the risk was considered acceptable, as the level of
commitment of the new government seemed sufficiently high to allow successful reform
in these critical areas.
D.    Achievement of Project Objectives
10.   Improved Allocation of Resources. There were four measures designed to
increase resource allocation to primary education and to improve the quality of education.
These objectives were partially met.
(a) The first measure was the separation of the first and second cycles of the nine year
basic education system, introducing at the same time a system for access to the
second cycle based on academic criteria and enrollment capacity. The GOM was
to issue texts setting forth the conditions of access to the second cycle, and to
apply these texts starting June 1995, as a condition for release of the second
tranche. The measure was introduced and the second tranche was released, but in
the ten-year strategic document currently under preparation, it is being proposed
by the team appointed for development of the sector policy to increase



4                                        ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
compulsory basic education to a single, eight year cycle, which would negate any
long term impact of this measure.
(b) The second measure required the design and implementation of admission criteria
for upper general secondary education (10-12) and higher education, based on
available capacity at these two levels and students' academic perfonnance on the
final examination at the preceding level. Application of these measures started in
June 1995, but rather than respect an agreed enrollment capacity, student-teacher
ratios were increased and school hours extended.  To some degree, this
represented efficiency gains, as classrooms and teachers were previously under-
utilized, but it did not increase the quality of these levels (very much affected by
frequent student strikes) or permit the reallocation of resources to the primary sub-
sector.
(c) The third measure required the implementation of administrative texts specifying
that the budget for scholarships be based on the affordable budgetary ceiling, and
that individual scholarships be based on performance, equity and retention
criteria. The original conditionality stated that the system would be applied in the
1994/95 school year, but when the necessary information campaigns on the
subject were delayed, the Bank agreed to shift the conditionality from the first
tranche to the second, thereby requiring that the criteria system be applied for the
1995/96 school year. This was not consistently applied, however, and the GOM
did very little to raise public awareness of the new measures. It was only in
March 1996 that some action was taken to limit access to secondary education,
allowing the second tranche to be released on April 12, 1996, but the overall
budgetary ceiling was disregarded soon after tranche release. The project did not
succeed in resolving this issue, which continues to constraint the development of
the sector.
(d)  The fourth measure was designed to ensure sufficient financial resources for the
sector. The GOM did allocate sufficient resources in its 1995 budget to: a) pay
teachers overtime for double shifts, b) redeploy teachers, c) recruit new teachers
on a contract basis at the regional level, d) meet the targets of CFAF 150 million
and CFAF 300 million for budgetary allocation to classroom maintenance in 1995
and 1996 respectively, and e) increase the operating budget for pedagogical
advisors by 20%.
11.   Increased Efficiency in the Use of Resources.  There were six measures
designed to achieve the objective, which was partially met.
(a) The first measure was aimed at increasing efficiency in teacher and classroom
utilization. There were a number of objectives: (i) the expansion of double shift
teaching to cover 30% of all first grade classrooms and about 15% of all second
grade classrooms for the 1994/95 school year; (ii) a maximum teacher/pupil ratio
of 1/80 and no more than 1/90 in double shift classrooms (an average class of
about 40-45 pupils); and (iii) the expansion of double shift teaching to at least



Project Implementation Assessment                                      5
30% of all first grade classrooms, about 30% of second grade classrooms and 15%
of third grade classrooms for the 1995/96 school year. The policy was generally
successful, although enrollments in double shift classrooms often exceed the
approved maximum, reducing quality.
(b)   The second measure involved the reduction of repetition rates in primary
education. GOM was to prepare an action plan to reduce repetition, taking into
account the expected improvement in the availability of quality inputs. It was to
include steps for the involvement of inspectors, pedagogical advisers and teachers
in the implementation of the plan. The plan was approved as a condition for
release of the second tranche and repetition rates declined, from 30% in 1994-95
to 18% in 1995-96.
(c) The third measure required the redeployment of 300 administrative personnel to
teaching positions and took place prior to the 1995/96 school year. The personnel
were redeployed successfully, following negotiations between the GOM and the
teachers' unions.
(d) To lower the cost of teacher financing, the fourth measure required the Ministry of
Education (MOE) to hire contract teachers to fill teaching positions.
Approximately 300 contract teachers were hired in the first year and an additional
300 the following year. An expansion of the approach is needed in coming years.
Unfortunately, implementation to date has been haphazard, with no clear criteria
for determining which schools receive contract teachers (some are obliged to
finance their own teachers) and no clear decision on the part of the GOM as to
which approach to hiring teachers (civil service, contract, volunteers, community
financing) they intend to promote. A number of the contract teachers were
subsequently inducted into the civil service following union demands, reducing
efficiency gains. In-depth discussions and negotiations with the teachers' unions
are required if teacher financing is to be rationalized. To date, such negotiations
have not been conducted.
(e) The fifth measure concerned the development of a master plan to transform the
"grandes ecoles" (higher education institutions that operate independently) into a
coherent university structure. Due attention was to be given to the Government's
financial constraints, the realities of the labor market and governance issues,
particularly in terms of enrollment capacity, autonomy, academic structure and
organization, admissions policies and financing. Admissions decisions were to be
separate from scholarship awards: awards were to be based on academic
performance and equity. Faced with continuing social tensions, the Government
did not implement all of the measures provided for under this plan. The
University was created, but closer attention will need to be given to unresolved
issues in order to improve quality which remains low, considering the available
resources.



6                                      ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
(f)   The sixth measure required the deployment of a number of non-teaching and
under-employed lower and upper secondary teachers, following identification of
teachers eligible for redeployment at the primary level based on school schedules
and teaching loads.  This was accomplished in part (300 teachers were
redeployed), but these remains considerable latitude for more efficient use of
secondary school teachers.
12.   Protection of Quality Inputs. Two measures were to be applied in support of
this objective, which was partially achieved.
(a) The first measure concerned the recruitment of 70 Teacher Advisors (TAs) from
among the most experienced teachers, to provide close pedagogical support to
primary teachers. In addition, the school inspectorate operating budget was to be
maintained in real terms in 1996 and thereafter.
Following consultations with IDA in August 1995, it was agreed that additional
TAs would not be appointed before proposed curriculum reforms and methods for
providing pedagogical supervision to assist in these reforms were fully defined.
The reforms included a shift towards a more interactive learning methodology,
and the establishment of 72 Pedagogical Assistance Centers (PACs) nationwide,
which would replace the 36 existing Inspectorates. Additional TAs were to have
been appointed for the academic year 1996/97 during the pilot phase of the
PACs, with a full contingent of at least 72 to be appointed for the academic year
1997/98. With sector reform programs in progress, the Bank decided to waive
this condition, as it was unclear what pedagogic supervision structure would be
used, and whether there would be a role for PAC-based TAs.
(b) The second measure targeted increases in the supply and quality of instructional
materials for all education levels, the introduction of budgetary line items for
educational materials, based on per student expenditure norms and the allocation
of flmds for classroom maintenance. The Government's application of per student
norms in 1996 resulted in a 50 percent increase in financing relative to 1994
(1,750,000 million CFA in 1995 and 2,000,000 CFA in 1996), which improved
the supply of textbooks and other didactic materials at the classroom level.
However, recent classroom visits showed that needs in teaching and learning
materials are very far from being satisfied.
13.   Mobilizing Non-Public Resources. This objective was met.  Texts were
developed establishing the conditions under which non-public schools would operate.
The GOM authorized and financed the construction of about 120 community/private
classrooms in 1994. A draft model contract for the leasing of publicly-funded schools to
private and community agents was disseminated by Government to all seven regions plus
Bamako, permitting the establishment of approximately 2,000 community schools with
USAID-financed NGO support. However, increases in the private, independent provision
of primary schooling have been much less than projected under the project.



Project Implementation Assessment                                          7
14.   Summary Evaluation. In conclusion, the project succeeded in implementing
many of the specific strategies designed to achieve its development objectives, but did
not make significant progress in resolving issues in the sector. On the positive side, high
level attention was drawn to priority issues in the sector, and a more coherent strategy is
emerging. Budgetary norms and double-shift teaching where warranted by excessive
class size are now accepted, but work is still needed in translating budgetary line items
into materials in classrooms and actual maintenance work. The policy dialogue between
the Bank and the Borrower improved and is facilitating the ongoing development of
sectoral policy and a ten-year action plan. On the negative side, the GOM has to date
shown little commitment or ability to implement politically difficulty change, especially
in the secondary and higher education sub-sectors. Unions are very powerful in the
country, and throughout the election cycle used this power in ways that hampered project
implementation. In many cases, ownership by the diverse stakeholders was lacking and
political risks permitted only the implementation of the letter, but not the spirit, of the
reforms.
E.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   Project implementation was affected by several inter-related factors. The first and
most important was the uncertain political climate which resulted from the changes in
governments and political systems. The second was the politicization of the sector, and
the consequent dependence of the GOM on the good will of students' and teachers'
unions to preserve political stability and social peace. This limited the ability of the
GOM to implement controversial reforms. The third factor, tied to the first two in that
the students played a critical role in overthrowing the military regime, was the resistance
from students and teachers to the changes in the system, especially to the establishment of
criteria for access to secondary and higher education and for scholarships. These factors
were mitigated by ministry authorities and IDA staff working together to identify the
potential benefits of the reforms, improving the public's perception of the measures and
increasing the GOM's sense of ownership of the reforms. A promotional campaign also
helped raise public awareness of the funding distortions in the sector, but the constant
pressure exerted by teachers and students resulted in a GOM decision to cancel the
campaign.
F.    Project Sustainability
16.   The sustainability of most project objectives is uncertain. In several cases, such
as the freezing of student scholarships, the conditions were met in only the narrowest,
legalistic sense, and quickly ignored after the second tranche was released. This reflects a
lack of consensus and ownership of the change process without which long-term
sustainability is unlikely.  On the other hand, certain broad goals appear to be
increasingly accepted across a wide spectrum within the sector: priority for primary
education, improved attention to quality and greater gender equity. However, persistent
social pressures have led the Government to continue allocating disproportionate
resources to secondary and higher education students who stay in the system for long
periods of time and to provide overly generous scholarships without regard for need.



8                                      ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Automatic access to higher education reduces the quality of teaching and learning. The
ongoing preparation of the new education sector investment program is facilitating the
continuation of policy dialogue, keeping the focus on the need for change, and will
hopefully thereby accelerate the reform program.
G.   Bank's Performance
17.   Almost immediately after the cancellation of the adjustment component of the
Education Sector Consolidation Project, the Bank started to look for ways to assist the
GOM to get back on track in the sector, particularly in regards to resource allocation and
management. Preparation and appraisal were managed by a task manager based at
headquarters and strengthened by the presence of an education specialist at the Resident
Mission. The presence of staff in the field pernitted the establishment of a consistent
dialogue between IDA and the Government at the initial stages of the project. The Bank's
performance during project identification, preparation and appraisal is thus rated
satisfactory, although the political risks of the reforms were under-estimated, and the
ability of the GOM to manage them was over-estimated. Problems faced during
implementation were due to the precise factors identified in the Initiating Memorandum
(IM) as the major risks of the project.
18.   After some initial supervision controversies, the education specialist became the
project's task manager. His presence in the field was instrumental in ensuring that
disbursement conditions were met, although the need for Bank field presence is an
indication of the relatively low level of GOM commitment to the reforms. This became
clear during the period of second tranche disbursement, when it was difficult for the
GOM to meet the conditions, and then soon after disbursement, when it became clear that
the most politically risky reforms would not be sustained. The Bank's performance
during implementation is evaluated as satisfactory, as working relationships were
excellent and the field presence no doubt greatly facilitated implementation.
19.   Of total IDA funding, the first tranche was for US $31 million and the second was
for US $20 million. In cooperation and in tandem (though not as direct co-financing)
with these tranches, Japan financed an additional US $44.7 million, while the Netherlands
financed US $25.6 million, and Belgium financed US $3.2 million. These funds were
released upon satisfaction of the tranche release conditionalities. The coordination of
funding was handled by the Country Operations Division according to standard
procedures, with no unexpected occurrences.
H.   Borrower's Performance
20.   A new government was elected immediately prior to the preparation phase,
following a transitional government installed after thirty years of military dictatorship. It
was a time of social upheaval, but also of optimism, and the GOM expressed
commitment to the implementation of the reforms that had not been carried out as
planned under the Education Sector Consolidation Project. In designing the credit, both
the Bank and the GOM were optimistic in estimating the level and speed of reform that



Project Implementation Assessment                                        9
would be tolerated by stakeholders in the sector.  Prior to negotiations, Board
presentation and effectiveness, many reforms were already underway (double-shift
teaching, the development of criteria for allocating scholarships and teacher
redeployment). Effectiveness and release of the first tranche took place as planned, one
and a half months after the signing of the Credit Agreement. Borrower performance
during preparation, identification and appraisal is thus evaluated as satisfactory.
21.   Following effectiveness, implementation of the reform program slowed. Some of
the conditions for release of the second tranche were not implemented by the originally
specified dates and several were met only minimally, such as the preparation of the
restructuring plan for higher education. As most conditionalities were satisfied, Borrower
performance during implementation is rated satisfactory.
I.    Assessment of Outcome
22.   The GOM was able to execute an ambitious education sector reform program in a
manner judged satisfactory to IDA and at the same time achieved all macroeconomic
performance criteria and quantitative and structural benchmarks under the Bank-
supported economic reform program. In doing so, it improved resource allocation
(financial, material and human) for the education sector, and set the stage for the
development, financing and implementation of the major sector investment program now
being prepared. Reforms in the most controversial areas were either not achieved or not
sustained and continue to hinder the development of the sector.
J.    Future Operations
23.   The reforms achieved under the credit will serve as the basis for the GOM's
program to increase access to primary education and improve the quality of all levels over
the next ten years. This program will be supported by a Sector Investment Program (SIP),
which is currently under preparation. The SIP is expected to provide time-slice financing
for two five-year periods of sector development, and is scheduled for Board presentation
in late FY98. Further progress in reducing the amount of expenditure on scholarships for
secondary and higher education will be a key part of Bank dialogue with the GOM and a
prerequisite of IDA investment in those sub-sectors. It is expected that double-shift
teaching, expenditures on pedagogic materials and classroom maintenance and criteria for
access to higher levels of the system will be maintained. As explained above, scholarship
ceilings established through the ESAC reforms have already been exceeded, and the
GOM is currently projecting that they will remain at the higher level for the next three
years.
K.   Key Lessons Learned
24.   The design of this credit was influenced by the lessons learned during
implementation of the Education Sector Consolidation Project.  Specifically:  (a)
complexity was reduced by limiting the credit to two tranches, (b) no investment was
included in the project and (c) the plan for future investment projects was an integral part



10                                     ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
of discussions held during preparation of the adjustment credit, and it was understood by
all that the successful achievement of the tranche conditions was a condition of further
investment.
25.   Lessons for the future include: (a) the decision to use adjustment lending to
encourage policy reform must consider the level of a government's need for resources,
the strength of the government's mandate, election timetables and the power of diverse
constituencies, and analyze the government's commitment to reform in light of that need;
(b) if adjustment lending is to produce the desired results, the Bank must be prepared to
cancel or reduce credit amounts if reforms are not achieved, which may be very difficult
when the country is dependent on adjustment financing to achieve macro-economic
objectives; (c) up-front and on-going participation of all major stakeholders in the design
of reforms is essential for implementation success; and (d) public debate and carefully
developed information campaigns must be organized, pre-tested and conducted prior to
and during the implementation of reforms. The inclusion of teachers' and students'
unions in the development of the project design would have increased the time required
for preparation, but could have greatly contributed to the sustainability of the reforms.
This is a central focus of the preparation of the education SIP, which has included
extensive beneficiary consultation from the start of the process. Finally, when it is agreed
between the Bank and borrowers that successful completion of an adjustment program is
the first step in the development of an investment program, government decisions not to
maintain reforms require the Bank to be willing to reduce the scope of its support for the
sector.



Part II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro Policies                       O               0                0                 El
Sector Policies                      Ol              0                0                 0
Financial Objectives                 Ol                               0                 0
Institutional Development            O               0                [E                0
Physical Objectives                  O               0                0                 E
Poverty Reduction                    O               El               0                 0
Gender Issues                        O               0                [E]               0
Other Social Objectives              Ol              0                0                 0
EnvironmentalObjectives              0               0                0                 [E
Public Sector Management             OE 0                             0                 0
Private Sector Development          03               0                0                 0
Other (specify)                      O               0                0                 0
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(1)                       (/1)                      (/)
O                         0 E1
Highly
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
(/1)                     (V)                       (1)
Identification                       0                       El                        0
Preparation Assistance               0                        0l                        0
Appraisal                            0                        0l                        0
Supervision                         0                         0                         0H
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                 satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)                      (1)                       (V)
Preparation                         E                         0                         E
Implementation                      O                         0                         0l
Covenant Compliance                 O                         E l
Operation (if applicable)           O                         10                        El
Highlv                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(')             (')              (')              (V)
El              0                El                E



12                                              ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
=_~~~~~~~~q
Previous operations
1. Education I           (a) improve the planning capacity of the Ministry of Education;  17      lsd
(Cr.4240-MLI)          (b) construct and equip science laboratories; (c) provide teacher
US$5.5 million         training for science/technology; and (d) convert and equip a             8/80
technical training institute and a women's technical teacher
training college.
2. Education II          (a) improve science instruction at secondary level; (b) renovate  1977  Closed:
(Cr.733-MLI)           a primary teacher training college; (c) construct/renovatethree
US$10 million          agricultural technician training centers; (d) construct a National       6/83
Management Institute; (e) provide facilities for Mali's literacy
program; and (f) develop, implement and evaluate new
educational programs.
3. Education III         (a) strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of  1984      Closed:
(Cr. 1442-MLI)         Education in educational planning, cost analysis, and
US$9.5 million         administration of technical and vocational education; (b)                6/89
improve the quality of basic education; (c) improve access to
basic education and literacy programs for adults (particularly
women and young farmers); and (d) improve the skills of
agricultural extension workers and livestock technicians.
4. Education Sector       Education Adjustment component: establish sector policy,    1990        Closed
Consolidation          develop financial and institutional framework.
(Cr. 2054)                                                                                      12/95
US$49 million          Investment component: (a) increase primary level enrollment
(particularly for girls) in three of Mali's seven regions, (b)
improve the quality of primary education nationwide, (c)
develop and implement a strategy for the restructuring of
secondary and higher education; and (d) strengthen the ability
of the Ministry of Education to manage its human, financial
and physical resources.
Following Operations
1. Vocational and         Restructure and consolidate vocational training and technical  1996  Effective:
Educational Training   education programs.                                                 3/97.
Consolidation
2. Educ. Sec. Inv.        Expand access to primary education and improve quality of all       Identification
Program (EDSIP)        educational levels.                                                 mission
scheduled
_____________________ ______________________________________________________ 6_6/9



Statistical Tables                                                       13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Xi    i5t >~ 5                        |  Date Planned   |
~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~Latest Estimt
Identification (Initiating Memo)         5/94              7/13/94
Preparation Mission                      7/94              7/22/94
Appraisal                                9/94              11/22/94
Negotiations                             10/10/94           12/6/94
Letter of Development Policy             7/94              12/5/94
Board Presentation                       11/94             1/5/95
Signing                                  1/95              1/12/95
Effectiveness                            2/95              2/27/95
First Tranche Release                    2/95              3/23/95
Second Tranche Release                   N/A               4/12/96
Project Completion                       N/A               6/30/96
Loan Closing                             12/31/96           12/31/96
Table 4: Loan/CreditDisbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS millions)*
.        .-- --k4 ..--t.-.- FY96               FY97
Appraisal Estimate                   30                           50
Actual                              31.5                         51.4
Actual as % of Estimate             105                          103
Date of Final Disbursement                                   July 18, 1996



14                                                 1CR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
L  Policy   eas   SA
Prior to Negotiations and First Tranche
1. Letter of Education Development Policy                   I . Prior to negotiationsz  1. December 1994
2. Regulatory text re criteria for higher education         2. ProIongtain~ 2  eray19
3. Application of scholarship criteria for secondary and higher   3 . Prior to negotiationsZ  3. Fall 1994|
education.
4. Restructuringof educationbudget                          4. October 1994            4. December 1994
5. Expansion of double-shift: 30% in first grade; 15% in second   5. School year 94/95  5. School year 95/96
6. Redeploymentof 350 teachers from admin to teaching pos.    6. Prior to negotiations2  6. November 1994
7. Recruitment of 70 pedagogic advisors                     7. Prior to negotiations2  7. For negotiations
8. Increase didactic materials budget at each level         8. 1995 budget             8. For negotiations
9. Regulatory texts promoting private and community schools    9. PIrior to negotiations2  9. For negotiations
For Second Tranche Release
1. Action plan to reduce repetition rates at primary levels  I. Prior to second tranche    1. February 1996
2. Related guidelines distributedto schools.                2. October 1995            2. October 1995
3. Application of selection system to second cycle of primary  3. June 1995            3. November 1995
4. Applicationofcriteriafor secondary level                 4. July 1995               4. By December 1995
5. Scholarshipmeasuresappliedatsecondary/higherlevels       5. October 1, 1995         5. April 1996
6. Compliancewith budgetaryceiling                          6. October. 1, 1995        6. December 1995
7. Expansion of double-shiftteaching: 30% first-grade       7. October. 1, 1995        7. By December4, 1995
classrooms, 30% second, 15% third
8. Redeploymentof 300 teachers from admin pos. to teaching    8. Prior to second tranche   8. By December4, 1995
positions in primary schools
9. Adopt an action plan for restructuringhigher education   9. Prior to second tranche   9. February 20, 1996
10. Recruitment of 300 contractualteachers                  10 February28, 1995        10. By December4, 1995
11. Recruitmentof70additionalpedagogicaladvisors            I1. October 1, 1995        11. Waived
Report to the President (MOI'), December 6. 1994, p. 2-24
2 Negotiations took place Dccember 6, 1994; these measures were completed at an unrecorded time previous to that
diate.



Statistical Tables                                                             15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
P~% . '           *r ---
Access to the second      Academic criteria      Increases in        Basic education
cycle of basic education,   established and      student-teacher     will become one
general secondary         generally respected.    ratios and school    cycle; all entrants
education and higher                             hours did not       guaranteed access
education based on                               increase the quality  to the full cycle.
academic criteria and                            of these levels or
enrollment capacity.                             permit the          Uncertain
reallocation of     whether
resources to the    negotiations with
primary sub-sector,  student unions
which were the      will result in
objectives of the   changes in access
conditionality.     criteria.
Budget for scholarships  Ceiling established and  Ceiling disregarded  Proposals in draft
based on the affordable  respected until shortly  soon after tranche    policy document
budgetary ceiling.        after second tranche   release, and        to gradually
was released.          projected by GOM    eliminate
to remain at new,    scholarships at
higher level, for the  secondary level
next three years.    and to reduce at
higher level.
Dialogue
continuing
between GOM
and donors.
Scholarship awards to be   Criteria established  Students' unions    Uncertain
based on performance,     and apparently         continue to demand  whether
equity and retention     respected.              relaxation of the   negotiations with
criteria.                                        criteria            students' unions
will result in
changes in
criteria.
Draft policy
document
proposes
development of
gender equity
criteria.



16                                        ICR - Ala/i: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 6, cont.: Key Indicators for Project Operation
.3 i; ?roject Timpact to be  Actions Being Taken- . -Issues-Remaii
Ensure sufficient         Line items for double-  Classroom visits to  Proposed SIP will
financial resources for the  shift teaching,     a small sample of   strengthen
sector.                  classroom maintenance  schools showed       resource
and pedagogic          minimal pedagogic  management at
materials (except for    materials.        decentralized
higher education)                          levels and provide
maintained in 1997                         financing for
budget.                                    pedagogic
materials.
Action plan for           The   university  has  Niany issues        Administrative
transfornation of the     been  administratively  remain to be       texts covering
"grandes ecoles" (higher   created.              resolved, including  priority issues
education institutions that                      the recruitment of   have been
operate independently)                           students by         established.
into a coherent university                       departments, the
structure.                                       organization of     Dialogue between
cross-department   the GOM and
programs and the    donors continues.
allocation of
professors.
The quality of the
uiniversity remains
very low.
Hiring of contract        Implemented, but       No criteria         Decision of GOM
teachers to fill teaching    haphazardly.        established for     regarding future
positions in basic                               allocation of       teacher
education.                A number of            teachers.           employment and
contract teachers were                     financing policy.
subsequently inducted   No clear decision
into the civil service  on the part of the    Decentralization
following union        (OM as to the       of teacher hiring
demands, reducing      approach they       and financing.
efficiency gains.      intend to promote.
In-depth
(liscussioins and
neglotiations with
the teachers'
unions are required.



Statistical Tables                                                     17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
1. University Study   Pre-appraisal study to    Finalized in  Proposed initial reforms.
inform appraisal      1993
2. Study on the     Determine current status  Prepared in  Submitted to Govern-
staffing, financing,    and make           1994 as part of   ment.
and material resources recommendations    preparation
of the Ministry of
Education
3. Status Update of                       Completed 7/95  Basis of action plan
Education System:                          (Second tranche  adopted for 95/96 school
Expenses, Recurrent                       conditionality)   year which increased
costs, Enrollment,                                        student-teacher ratios at
Teaching Loads                                            the secondary level,
among other measures.
4. Higher Education   Produce action plan for   Completed July  Served as a dialogue
Restructuring Study   the restructuring of  1995          piece for Government's
higher education.                     proposal; was not,
however, followed in
that proposal
5. Government       Condition for         Proposal--      Status unknown at time
Action Plan for     disbursement of the    12/19/1995     of ICR
Reducing Primary    second tranche
Level Repetition
6. Government's     Reduce government      Final draft    Demonstrated the need
Higher Education    expenditures for higher   February 1996   to reform the structure
RestructuringPlan   education institutions,               and improve
while increasing                      management of the
education quality.                    system and suggested
priority measures to be
adopted.



18                                           ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 8A: Project Costs
Not applicable. The credit was used to reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
Mali's general imports, excluding goods financed by other bilateral or multilateral agencies,
and goods specifically prohibited on negative list.
Table 8B: Project Financing
----
S ource      Local       Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign       Total
Costs       Costs                     Costs        Costs
IDA         NA           NA                   50                                   51.4
Govt. of    NA           NA                                                        25.64
Netherlands
3
Govt. of    NA           NA                                                         3.25
Belgium
Govt. of    NA           NA                                                        44.7
Japan 6
TOTAL                                         50                                  124.9
3 Netherlands' grant to support a Debt Service Trust Fund
4 Divided between CAS and SECAL
5 Exchange rate from Controller's category recap
6 No Disbursement recap; apparently not managed by Bank.



Statistical Tables                                                             19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
During project preparation, no economic rate of return (ERR) or net present value of the
project was prepared. Therefore there is no baseline with which to compare actual
estimates.



20                                                         ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Mali
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
), i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~.W                                                                                          0. .  4 
Article III     3.01 (a,b)       9           C          N/A         N/A    (a)The Borrowerandthe Associationshall, at the request      No requests made
of either party, exchange views on the progress of the
Program. (b) Prior to such exchange of views, the
borrower shall furnish to IDA for its review & comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
program, in such detail as IDA shall reasonably request
ArticlelIl      3.02             3           C          N/A         N/A      ExceptastheAssociationshallotherwiseagree,                Nodirectprocurementofgoods
procurementof the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article III     3.03 (a)         9           C                               The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association  Plan submitted 4/97
not later than six months after the Closing Date a plan
designed to ensure the continued achievementof the
objectivesofthe Program
Articlelil      3.04 (a)         I           C                               The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts          No outstanding or qualified
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently       audits.
maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures
financed out to the proceeds of the Credit.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                                            8.  = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries                9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds                                     10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                                                       11.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5.     Management aspects of the project or executing agency                    12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
6.     Environmental covenants                                                  13.  = Other
7.    Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



Statistical Tables                                                       21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
BORROWER COMPLIED WITH ALL OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ($,000)
Stage of                 Planned          Revised          Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks    US$    Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal        28       N/A      20.8     N/A    26.9    70.7
Appraisal-BBoard B5                     N/A                        4.3      12.9
Negotiations through Board      2        N/A                        1.5     4.1
Approval
Supervision                     10      N/A      21.5    52.8    20.9    51.3
Completion                      11.6     5 1                        9.5      2.9
TOTAL                         56.6     5.1                        63.1    141.9



22                                                    ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions*
Through Appraisal   5/94       3          5           DIR, Div.Ch,         NA           NA         Prep. Disc
EDC
Appraisal through_
Board Approval
Supervision         02195      2                      EDC, ECN             S             S
12196
Completion          2/97       1                      EDC
A full-time Bank staff person was in the field during preparation, part of appraisal, and throughout project
implementation.
DIR:             Director
Div. Ch:         Division Chief
EDC:             Educator
ECN:             Economist



Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire                                              23
Appendix A
Page 1 of 5
Mission's Aide-Memoire
This ICR was prepared in conjunction with the preparation and identification of the proposed
Education Sector Investment Program (Ed SIP). The following aide-memoire excerpts cover the
policy discussions which linked the end of the adjustment phase and the beginning of the
investment stage of the two-step process described in the text of this Report.
Banque mondiale, Secteur de l'Education
Bamako, Mali
4-15 novembre 1996
Extraits de I'Aide-memoire
I.    Introduction. Une mission de la Banque mondiale composee de M. Samuel Carlson
(economiste en education), M. Robert Prouty (specialiste en education), Mme. Penelope Bender
(specialiste en education), M. Joseph Destefano (economiste en education), M. Maurice Garnier
(specialiste de l'enseignement superieur), et M. Fernand Laplante (specialiste en formation
professionnelle) a visite le Mali du 4 au 15 novembre 1996.
II.    Le Processus d'Elaboration du Cadre Politique. Le cadre politique permettra ensuite
la preparation des projets d'investissement qui se situeraient tous dans le cadre d'un programme
global. La mission reitere la volonte de la Banque mondiale de preparer et de financer un
programme d'investissement tenant compte des besoins du secteur dans son ensemble, y compris
les niveaux secondaire et superieur. Cela sous-entend une gestion de la politique educative dont
la toute premiere priorite est l'enseignement de base.
IV.   L'enseignement superieur.  La mission avait aussi l'objectif d'etablir le bilan de
l'evolution de la situation et de faire le point en ce qui concerne l'ouverture de la nouvelle
structure qu'est l'universite. Il s'agissait egalement de s'assurer de la coherence de la politique
proposee pour l'enseignement superieur avec celles des autres ordres d'enseignement. Les
discussions que l'equipe a eues avec les responsables de l'enseignement superieur, y compris la
nouvelle equipe du rectorat, suggerent que le cadre politique sous-sectoriel convenu entre la
Banque mondiale et le Gouvemement le 29 f6vrier 1996 n'est pas mis en application pour
I'annee scolaire 1996-97. Entre autres, un depassement de l'enveloppe budgetaire allouee aux
bourses est probable.  II semblerait que certains derapages dans l'application des criteres
d'allocation des bourses aient eu lieu et l'enveloppe budgetaire totale risque de depasser de loin
les 2,3 milliards prevus pour l'annee 1996. En plus, les effectifs augmenteront de 13% alors
qu'il avait ete convenu que l'augmentation ne depasserait pas 4%. Les textes officiels stipulent
que les facultes determninent les inscriptions "dans les limites des places disponibles". Or, les
facultes ne semblent avoir joue aucun r6le dans les autorisations de s'inscrire.
Le Gouvernement s'6tait engage i octroyer une somme de 50.000 FCFA par etudiant et par an
afin d'ameliorer les conditions d'apprentissage. Les sommes mises a la disposition des
etablissements semblent 8tre tres inferieures au montant prevu. Par exemple, I'ENSUP, avec
2200 etudiants devrait avoir 110 millions a sa disposition. Jusqu'a ce jour, cette ecole n'a eu que



24                                         ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Appendix A
Page 2 of 5
25 millions. L'accord de fevrier 1996 stipule que des frais d'inscription d'un montant de 7.500
francs seraient payes par les nouveaux etudiants. Ceux-ci ont ete reduits a 5.000 francs, ce qui,
en premiere annee, represente un manque a gagner de 6,8 millions de francs.
V.    Rapport d'achevement du projet.  Dans le cadre de la preparation du Rapport
d'achevement du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel du Secteur de l'Education (PASSE, Credit
2673-MLI), la mission a tenu plusieurs seances de travail avec les responsables charges du suivi
du programme et a laisse un modele d'un tel rapport avec le Gouvernement. Le rapport
comportera une section a elaborer au niveau de la Banque et une autre section a elaborer au
niveau du Gouvemement. Le rapport d'achevement du Gouvernement etant une partie integrale
du document, il serait souhaitable que le Gouvernement designe le (ou les) responsable(s) pour
son eiaboration dans les meilleurs delais. Le rapport sera soumis au Conseil d'Administration de
la Banque mondiale avant le 30 juin 1997.
VII.  Conclusions.  II est clair que le Gouvernement du Mali est arrive a un moment
d6terminant pour le futur du secteur de I'education. Le developpement de la methodologie
convergente, la creation des ecoles communautaires, le partenariat avec les ONG nationales et
internationales, et d'autres initiatives representent autant d'atouts qui ont cree une atmosphere de
creativite dans le secteur. Meme si certaines de ces approches demandent encore de mesures
d'accompagnement et une reflexion plus comprehensive, elles placent deja le Mali au devant
dans les r6flexions en Afrique sous-Saharienne sur l'amelioration de la qualit6 de
1'enseignement. La perennisation et la generalisation des initiatives demanderont la disponibilite
des ressources tant humaines que financieres et une decentralisation accrue. La preparation du
cadre politique devra tenir compte a la fois de la necessite de gerer l'economie politique du
changement et l'importance de rationaliser l'utilisation de ces ressources, toujours dans le but de
faire de l'education pour tous une realit.
S. Carlson
Economiste en Education



Appendix A: Mission 's Aide-Memoire                                             25
Appendix A
Page 3 of 5
Banque mondiale, Secteur de I'Education
Bamako, Mali
du 5 au 16 mars 1997
Extraits de l'Aide-memoire
2.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale a sejourne a Bamako du 5 au 16 mars 1997.
La mission etait composee des membres suivants: M. Robert Prouty, chef de mission, Mme.
Penelope Bender, specialiste de l'education, et M. Mohamed Toure, analyste des op6rations A la
mission r6sidente. La mission avait deux objectifs principaux: (1) determiner le progres du
Gouvemement pour satisfaire les conditions de mise en vigueur du Projet de Consolidation de la
Formation Professionnelle et (2) passer en revue le projet de declaration de politique de
l'education en vue de commencer la preparation d'un programme d'investissement aupres du
secteur.
Projet d'Investissement Sectoriel de l'Education
3.     Cadre politique de l'education. La mission a requ un premier draft du projet de cadre
politique. Elle a mend trois seances de travail avec l'equipe responsable de sa conception,
pendant lesquelles le document a et6 discute en detail. Elle a egalement mene plusieurs
discussions avec les services divers du Ministere de l'Education de Base, avec les bailleurs, et
avec des representants des ONG. Le document presente plusieurs approches novatrices en vue
de la reforme integrale du systeme educatif malien. Sa large diffusion dans les mois a venir
servira de tremplin aux discussions detaillees avec tous les acteurs du secteur. La mission a
prepare des commentaires detailles sur le contenu du cadre politique, qui ont et6 remis A 1'equipe
PRODEC et aux responsables du MEB.
4.     Les elements suivants presentes dans le projet de cadre politique representent un pas
important vers un meilleur avenir pour le secteur educatif au Mali:
(1)   la priorite accordee A l'enseignement de base,
(2)   la recommandation que les langues maternelles soient employees dans les
premieres annees de l'enseignement de base en vue de la transition vers le
fran9ais,
(3)   la volonte d'atteindre au minimum un taux brut de scolarisation de 75%,
(4)    I'accent sur les intrants de qualite, tels que les manuels scolaires et la formation
continue des enseignants, et
(5)   la proposition de reduire les transferts sociaux aux niveaux des enseignements
secondaire et superieur, et d'effectuer un reamenagement du budget entre les
niveaux divers de l'education, en utilisant les economies pour ameliorer la
qualite.



26                                          ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Appendix A
Page 4 of 5
(6)    les cofits des interventions proposees devraient etre chiffr6es dans les meilleurs
delais (couit de fonctionnement et d'investissement), pour que les d6cideurs
puissent voir les cons6quences financieres des propositions divers.
5.     Pendant ces discussions avec  1'6quipe  PRODEC, la mission  a propose des
am6nagements au document:
(1)    I'addition d'un chapitre sur les processus par lesquels les changements seront
introduits, les instances de prise de d6cision, etc.,
(2)    la pr6sentation des options claires, avec indication des avantages et des
inconv6nients, pour les questions cles du secteur: le financementlformation des
enseignants, la distribution des livres, la construction des 6coles, etc.
(3)    des estimations d6taillees des co(its d'investissement et de fonctionnement,
(4)    une presentation plus claire et detaillee du contenu de 1'enseignement de base,
(5)    des propositions concretes pour une meilleure utilisation des ressources
humaines et financieres: augmentation des heures d'enseignement au secondaire
et au superieur, reduction des bourses du superieur et elimination des bourses du
secondaire et normal, etc., et
(6)    I'addition d'un paragraphe sur la philosophie de la r6forme p6dagogique,
orientant les discussions sur les liens entre les communautes et I'ecole.
6.     Les propositions suivantes semblent comporter des risques quant A I'atteinte des
objectifs vises par le programme ddcennal ou du point de vue de leur coQat-efficacit6:
(1)   la reduction du financement de I'enseignement secondaire--passant de 14% A 7%
du budget de l'education,
(2)    I'augmentation du budget de 1'enseignement professionnel--passant de 7% A
20% du budget de l'education--sans evaluation adequate de la capacite
d'absorption de ce sous-secteur,
(3)    un enseignement professionnel centre sur l'offre d'emplois au lieu de la
demande du marche du travail, une approche qui est en voie de disparition dans
la plupart des pays,
(4)    une formation normale qui dure quatre ans. Les recherches indiquent qu'une
courte periode de formation initiale suivie d'une formation continue etroitement
liee aux besoins exprim6s au niveau du terrain serait beaucoup plus indiqu6e.



Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire                                            27
Appendix A
Page 5 of 5
Projet d'Ajustement Structurel du Secteur de I'Education
14.   Rapport d'achivement du projet. La mission a tenu plusieurs seances de travail avec
1'equipe chargde de preparer le rapport d'achevement du Projet (PASSE, Credit 2673-MLI). La
Banque a donne des commentaires sur la premrire version du rapport du Gouvernement. La
version finale sera transmise a la Banque avant la fin de mars 1997. La section a rediger par la
Banque sera soumise au Gouvemement pour ses reactions dans les meilleurs delais. Le rapport
sera soumis au Conseil d'Administration de la Banque Mondiale avant le 30juin 1997.
Fait A Bamako le 15 mars 1997
R. Prouty et P. Bender
Specialistes de I'Education



28                                         ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Appendix B
Page I of 7
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
Ministry of Basic Education
1. Objective: Increase education sector expenditures for primary school, school equipment and
classroom maintenance.
Achievement: Budget lines were created for school equipment and classroom maintenance.
In 1996, budget allocations for school equipment represented CFAF 2,000,000,000 (CFAF
2,500/student in the first cycle of basic education and CFAF 5000/student in the second cycle).
This financed the purchase of 15,957 benches for students, 3,803 chairs and 1,954 desks for
teachers, as well as 312,600 textbooks. CFAF 210,000,000 was allocated for classroom
maintenance, which permitted the renovation of 50 classrooms.
In 1997, the budget allocation for school equipment was CFAF 2,108,000,000. CFAF 55,710,000
(CFAF 35,000 per student) was allocated for teacher training and CFAF 225,000,000 was
allocated for building maintenance.
Lessons learned: The implementation of these measures did not pose any specific problems.
However, budget allocations for school equipment (especially textbooks) have remained
insufficient to achieve Objective 1.
2. Obiective: Extend double shift teaching to a minimum of 30% of first-grade classes, 30% of
second grade classes, 30% of third-grade classes and 15% of fourth-grade classes for the 1996/97
school year.
Achievement: This reform is still being implemented for the 1996/1997 school year. It should
reach 30% of first-grade classes, 30% of second-grade classes, 30% of third-grade classes, and
15% of fourth-grade classes. It should reach an additional 615, 442 students and 214 classes
respectively for the three grades and as many teachers.
Presently, the following numbers have been reached:
- first grade:      600 classes, 29.26%
- second grade:     464 classes, 31.49%
- third grade:      454 classes, 31.82%
- fourth grade:     354 classes, 18.29%
Lessons learned: The implementation of the measure seems to be satisfactory, considering the
time period allotted.



Appendix B: Borrower's contribution                                           29
Appendix B
Page 2 of 7
3. Objective: Reduce the annual repetition rate to 15% in primary school.
Achievement: The department elaborated and is implementing an action plan to meet the
requirement, including a series of measures, such as the assignment of homework and weekly
tests in French, national languages and math.
Lessons learned: The repetition rate does not exceed 15% anywhere. This measure is being
applied nationwide, thanks to an administrative text sent to all Regional Education Directors on
February 15, 1996.
4. Objective: Recruiting 300 contractual and 600 civil service teachers.
Achievement: The 300 contractual teachers were recruited. The 600 civil service teachers were
recruited through a competitive examination organized by the Ministry of Civil Service. They
were then given to the Ministry of Basic Education for classroom assignments, thanks to decrees
# 96-1484 and 1485/MEFPT-DNFPP-D2-1 of September 25, 1996 and # 96-1933/MEFPT-
DNFPP-D2-1 of November 29, 1996. All 900 agents are currently operational.
Lessons learned: Recruiting civil service teachers appears to be increasingly difficult because of
the lack of trained teachers on the job market.
5. Objective: Develop academic criteria for admission to the second cycle of basic education.
Achievement: This measure has been applied since the start of the 1995-1996 school year.
Lessons learned: The objective of this measure was to limit the number of students entering the
second cycle of basic education. Regulation of the second cycle of basic education should only
happen after a certain level of equilibrium is reached. The number of pupils in the first cycle of
basic education is now four times the number in the second cycle. There are no provisions for
those who are not accepted to the second cycle of basic education. Thus, this regulation requires
other measures before it can be completely implemented.
6. Objective: Conduct a communication campaign about the new criteria to enter the second
cycle of basic education.
Achievement: In accordance with a contract signed on February 22, 1996 between the two
ministries in charge of education and the Malian press agency, a communication plan was
developed.
This plan which lasted 10 months, was entirely implemented. It included the following
activities:
skits about the reduction of repetition rates (radio/TV);
skits about admission to 7th grade (radio/TV) and about double-shift teaching;
radio broadcasts "Parlons en" in French and Bambara on the three themes of
basic education;



30                                          ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Appendix B
Page 3 of 7
-      radio broadcasts in French on university entrance criteria;
-      radio broadcasts on criteria for scholarship awards;
-      publication of criteria for scholarship awards and access to the university (in
L 'Essor, Les Echos, le Nouvel Horizon, Independant et Republicain);
-      publication of articles in the newspapers (in L 'Essor, Les Echos, Le Nouvel
Horizon, Independant et Republicain);
-      production of posters, brochures, and extracts of internal regulations (les
Ecoles);
-      production of leaflets on the University (Les Ecoles);
-      TV and radio broadcasts on schooling;
-      TV and radio broadcasts on university operations;
This plan permitted all education partners to understand these very sensitive issues. The issues
tackled had been more endured than understood by our close partners for a long time. Taking
this into account, we decided to direct the information to two different groups:
the internal group: the administration, professors, researchers...
the external group: parents, development partners (TVs, radios, newspapers,
leaflets, brochures...)
Nonetheless, it is important to underline that communication must be an every day matter, to
allow each partner at each moment to understand all important decisions concerning schooling,
which is a very sensitive issue.
This definitely requires constant teamwork, with sufficient numbers of people who are
technically trained and have resources to provide good training and to produce appropriate
communication campaigns. A communication group exists in the Ministry and needs sufficient
means to carry out its mission.
7. Objective: Limit budgetary expenses for scholarships, to CFAF 3.9 billion for 1996.
Achievement: The envelope remained at CFAF 234,121,297.
Second objective: Limit budgetary expenses for scholarships to CFAF 4.3 billion in 1997.
Achievement: 400 million CFAF of this total is reserved for teacher training institutions.
Lessons learned: The reduction of the scholarship budget for teacher training significantly
reduced possibilities to train teachers. Shouldn't we increase the allocation in order to admit
more student-teachers?
8. Objective: Conduct a survey on infrastructure for the second cycle of basic education.
9. Objective: Prepare an investment program for the education sector, allowing the
implementation of sector reforms.



Appendix B: Borrower's contribution                                           31
Appendix B
Page 4 of 7
Achievement: A team in charge of the elaboration of a ten-year education (PRODEC) has just
finished its consultations. The survey is being presented to the authorities and to different
partners, including the World Bank.
10. Objective: Develop and implement measures (professional training, apprenticeships) to
favor the professional insertion of those who do not have access to the second cycle of basic
education.
Achievement: This activity remains without object, since the flow of students from sixth to
seventh grade is controlled. The problem was taken into account in the survey realized by the
PRODEC team.



32                                        1CR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Appendix B
Page 5 of 7
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education
and Scientific Research
1. Objective: Develop a broad communication campaign regarding access criteria for the
second cycle of basic education, secondary education and higher education.
Achievement: A broad public communication campaign was led by the authorities.
The continuation of the scholastic careers of those who finish basic education and want to go on
to secondary, technical or professional education is now subjected to age criteria. Students who
pass the end-of-basic education exam and have not been enrolled in school and students who
pass and are older than 19 years old were allowed to work at the National Pedagogic Institute in
1996.
Concerning higher education, baccalaureate holders older than 25 and those who have not been
enrolled in school are no longer directed towards higher education. Scholarship criteria are
being applied and the principle of the payment of an inclusive tuition fee has been accepted by
all education partners and implemented since the start of the 1996-97 school year.
Lessons learned: These actions will have to be pursued, with the objective of controlling student
flows. This will be done through the linkage of registration to available places in the different
departments of the University of Mali.
2. Obiective: Limit budgetary expenses for scholarships to CFAF 3.9 billion.
Achievement: The global allocation of CFAF 3.9 billion was increased to CFAF 4.3 billion in
August 1996.
The following factors occurred during the fiscal year and annihilated the efforts made to contain
scholarship expenditures, despite the rigorous application of award criteria:
-     vacation allowances of CFAF 278,840,000;
-     increases in vacation allowances for students in the Maghreb: CFAF 25,740,000;
-     increases in vacation allowances for students in the former Soviet Union:
CFAF 13,770,000;
-     scholarships for students in the Arabic section of the secondai Y education
research institute: CFAF 10,911,875
Expenditures in 1996: CFAF 3,994,482,550
Lessons learned: The increase in student numbers, combined with the factors mentioned above,
explains the difficulties in maintaining the expenditure envelope at 3.9 billion CFAF.



Appendix B: Borrower's contribution                                            33
Appendix B
Page 6 of 7
The prospects for 1997 are more favorable and the Ministry is committed to respecting the new
allocation of 4.3 billion, of which 3.9 will be directed to secondary and higher education. 1997
will also be the last year that student generations who have systematically received scholarships
will be present at the university.
3. Objective: Complete an action plan for the restructuring of higher education and develop all
necessary juridical and administrative reformns for the implementation of this plan.
Achievement: The action plan was developed and approved by the government. The juridical
and administrative reforms have been developed and the university opened in November 1996
with the following structures:
-     the Economics and Law Faculty;
-     the Medical, Pharmaceutical and Dental Faculty;
-     the Letters, Language, Arts and Social Sciences Faculty;
-     the Science and Technical Faculty;
-     the University Management Institute;
-     the Training and Applied Management Institute;
-     the Engineering, Rural Polytechnic, National Administration and Secondary
Education Teacher Training colleges.
Lessons learned: To provisionally replace former management structures (the new faculty
groups are not yet established), a Provisional University Council has been established to
supervise the administrative, financial and educational operations of the University.
4. Obiective: Prepare an investment program for the education sector which allows the
implementation of the planned sector reforms, increased decentralization and the restructuring of
higher education.
Achievement: This task has been given to a team, established in with the agreement of the
World Bank, within the framework of the ten-year education sector policy framework. The
team's initial proposals will be submitted in October 1997.
Lessons learned: They will be analyzed later, after the conclusions of the team are available.
5. Objective: Adopt and implement measures concerning technical education and professional
training.
Achievement: For the implementation of the vocational education and professional training
project, the Ministry has taken the following steps:



34                                         ICR - Mali: Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Appendix B
Page 7 of 7
(a)    Adoption of the following administrative and legislative texts:
the Decree creating technical and professional training centers; and
the Law and the Decree creating the training and assistance centers for small
businesses.
(b)    Drafting of an administrative text (which will soon be adopted) to regulate
courses of study in public technical and professional training schools;
(c)    An employers' survey, carried out by a 14 member team, which is now working
on a review of the general mechanical and metal construction programs; and
(d)    The development of a list of equipment for various workshops and the launching
of procurement procedures for the equipment.
Lessons learned: The new texts have increased the autonomy of the training institutions,
because each establishment has its own training and assistance unit.
The technical and professional training programs are clearly defined and structured in modules.
Bamako, March 5, 1997



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28515
I                     \
M A L I 
EDUCATION SECTOR    j                                                                N
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT    j                                                                                             A i
O     CERCLE CAPITALS                      j                                                     \
     REGION CAPITALS
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL
CERCLE BOUNDARIES                     I                                                   /        
-       REGION BOUNDARIES
-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES               i                                                                          -
IKDAL  REGION
TOMBOUCTC,U R-GION                                  Kid.1
I.                                      <GAO    REGION
0  50  100 150 200  250
I   I   I             I                        I                     TOMBOUCTOU
KILOMETERS                              I
>   Gooidorn      GOIJRMA RHAROUS                                Monoko
ft' )AU    1 A N I A    /            - Nio
J                    &,Obmonw  Nior         NARA     7Youvorsu                            _       >         \                           *R'-
>   K   i'        -J                     o ~~~~~~~~DOUENTZA   7 _
KAYES               D.en.      KOUL IKORO                (TENENKOU MOPTI     PTI
'                        o           REGICON                      t        4 o  R.
2)    /   Ni&no,d   REGiON
*   ~~   s   Kongubo / C SS  v WoHd Bank~                            . JSAASA 
Bo... Mb.                                          i  JENNE'            Jol                               or
BAMAKOo               ,AAK                             NfnoliJ                                              j           [   o   hs   a    o   o  
KAY ES                                             World Bank    Gop  i               I
(  ( 3Tf t^l'|s/ltE    't_ ~        Th boundaries,   .colors,A                          GH>7EN
R AGIOAN  AREA   ~            hiISJIUlJ 4nt                                            d
~~,~oritoIiIa      }                   on ~~~~This map  a prdoaret
Kolond,ebo                       impy, eon     t the portISH
The WorldBankes  Golrou,           I'N
K.1o.d,.b.                  impl~~~ay,jdmn on the  lealY ofBnik
A                 ~~~~~status of any territory,                      V'RKINA~   (
or any endorsement                                  TOFG_ ASO       NER
or=acetnce of such                Gi000 j-IGER
boudaresFIINNA l,                                           ENIN~
JANUARY 1997






I



IMAGING
Report No.:          16645
Type:     ICR



