Report No. PIC1121
Project Name                   Mali-Education Sector Adjustment Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Education
Project ID                     MLPA35662
Borrower                       Government of Mali
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Economy and Commerce
Aboubacar Toure, Technical adviser
Bamako, Mali
Date PID Prepared              August 1994
Appraisal date                 November 1994
Projected Board Date           December 1994
Project Objectives
1.   With the macro-economic objectives and agricultural reforms in
place, the education sector is now the priority area for reform. The
SECAL seeks to assist the government of Mali in addressing the
education sector main distortions through policy reform aimed at
transforming education from an elitist and costly system to one which
is more relevant and equitable and where resources are used more
efficiently and allocated in priority to primary education and quality
improvement at all levels.
Description
2.   The proposed credit would support the agreed upon Government's
education sector measures which are incorporated in the credit with a
two fold time-bound implementation. These measures includes : (i) the
restructuring of the basic education system and introduction of
admissions controls at post-primary levels; (ii) the progressive
generalization of double shift and the redeployment of teachers
(iii) the freezing the fellowship budget at 3.9 billions CFAF while
introducing criteria for awards at both higher and secondary education
levels; (iv) the limitation of primary education repetition rates and
the increased of the teachers supervisors ratio; (v) the
identification of the primary education budget and the allocation of
the resources required to meet the planned measures needs; (vi) the
issuance of legal texts favoring the development of private and
community primary schools and (vii) the issuance of a strategy and
legal texts for the structuring of the new university within the
constraints quality, employment and financing.
Implementation (Disbursement and Procurement)
3.   The proposed Credit would of US$40 Millions to be disbursed in
two tranches subject to the satisfactory implementation of the related
measures. The first tranche, planned for November 1994, would be in



the amount of US$20 millions. The second, planned for November 1995
would consists of the remaining US$20 million. Proceeds of the Credit
would reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange costs of eligible
imports, of public and private sector origin, except for negative list
and imported goods already funded under bilateral or multilateral
credits. Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use
of the funds while ensuring efficiency and accountability in the
process.
Environmental Aspects
4.   In conformity with IDA policies for adjustment operations, no
environmental rating has been assigned. However the operation would be
consistent with IDA policy and would follow acceptable IDA procedures.
Contact Point :      Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC. 20433
Telephone No.:(202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note:   This is information on an evolving operation. Certain
components may not necessarily be include in the final credit.
- 2 -



