LGG 2,6 7 S  h_
Daownt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Iqait No. P-6484-lLI
REPORT AND) RECOIM ATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
IUTEtRRTIOW. DEVEPMEN  ASSOCIATi4N
TO TUE    -
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 34.3 MILLION (US$50 4ILLION BQUIVALENT)
TG THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTH     CREDIT
DECEMBER 6, 1994
This document has a restricted distrbtion and may be used by ecs only in the performane of
their official duies. Its con_t  may not otewise be disclosed without World Bank adthorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAF 528 (October 13, 1994)
CFAF I million = US$1,718 (Octot..r 13, 1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric = British/US equivalents
I meter (m) =3.28 feet
I kilometer (k}m) = 0.62 mniles
I square kilometer (km2) = 0.39 miles
ACRONYMS
AfDB        African Development Bank
AGSECAC   Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BID         Banqte Islamique de Duel'eoppement (Islamic Development Bank)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CFA         Communaute Financiere Africaine
CFAF        CFA franc
ENA         Ecole Nationale d'Administration (National School of Administration)
ERC         Economic Recovery Credit
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
HUICOMA   Huilerie Cotonniere du Mali
ICB         Intemational competitive bidding
LCB         Local competitive bidding
LDP         Letter of Education Sector Development Policy
NGO         Non-governmental organization
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PESAP       Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
SSA         Sub-Saharan Afiica
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPULTC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Contents
Credit Summary ...................................................i
PART I MACRO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND
THE RATIONALE FOR THE PROPOSED OPERATION .1
A. Economic Perrformance over the period 1989-93 .1
1. Growth                                    .2
2. Fiscal and Monetary Performance                       .2
3. Balance of Payments                             .3
B. Progress on the Adjustment Agenda                       ..3
1. Policy Framework Paper 1994-1996                      .4
2. Performance since the January 1994 parity change             .4
3. Medium Term Growth Prospects 1994-99                     .5
4. External Financing Requirements                      .6
C. Rationale for Bank involvement and for using adjustment lending in the Education Sector  ..6
PART IL THE EDUCATION SECTOR                                 .9
A. Background                                    .9
B. Main Issues .10
1. Limited development of primary education and uncontrolled growth at other levels.   10
2. Low quality and internal efficiency .12
3. Inefficient allocation and use of resources .12
4. Constraints on the development of private education .14
5. Over-ambitious development program for higher education .14
C. Bank involvement in the sector and lessons learned .15
D. Other donors' involvement in the sector .16
E. Policy dialogue .17
F. Government /IDA sectoral strategy: a two step-approach           .17
G. Policy implementation status                        .19
PART m. THE PROPOSED OPERATION .20
A. Policy agenda.                                                                   2
1. Improved allocation of resources .20
2. Increased efficiency in the use of resources             .2
3. Protecting quality inputs.                                                    2
4. Mobilizing non-public resources .24
T hisdocunt hs a tasald dibutIonand may be used by ecIpiens oly in the Peoue oft
oIfficilte  tscontens    ootw edlosed wihtoldanaOrzto



Contents (Cont'd)
B. Features of the proposed credit ..........................                    24
C. Benefits and risks..27
1. Impact of the proposed operation .27
2. Risks to the proposed operation ..8........................                28
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION.                                                         30
ANNEXES
Annex I   Social Indicators
Annex 2   Key Economic Indicators
Annex 3   Cornparative Educational Indicators
Annex 4    Sector Reform Policy Matrix
Annex 5   Potential Enviromnent Increase
Annex 6   Letter of Education Sector Development Policy
Annex 7   Education SECAL Budget Policy numbers
Annex 8    Status of Bank Operations
Annex 9   Timetable of Key Processing Events
This operation was prepared by a team comprising Djamalddine Rouag (Senior Education
Specialist and Task Manager, AF5PH), Birger Fredriksen (Division Chie£ AF5CO), Hasan Tuluy
(Principal Economist, AF5CO), Samuel Carlson (Human Resources Economist, Bamako Mali),
Linda McGinnis (Resident Representative, Bamako, Mali), Victoria Kwakwa (Country Economist,
AF5CO), and Sidi Mohamed Boubacar (Senior Legal Counsel, LEGAF). Peer reviewers were
Antoine Schwartz (ESP) and Arvil Van Adams (AFTHR). Ghislaine Baghdadi and Celine Gavach
provided secretarial support. Messrs Jean-Louis Sarbib and Ok Pannenborg are respectively the
Department Director and the Managing Division Chief for the operation. Mr. Francois Laporte is
the Lead Economist.



REPUBLIC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CRtEDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Mali
Beneficiaries:     - Ministry of Finance and Commerce ("Nunistere des Finances et du
Commerce" - MFC)
- Ministry of Basic Education ( Ministere de lrEnseignement de Base -
(MEB)
- Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education and Scientific Research
(Minist&re de lEnseignement Secondaire, Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique - MESSRS)
IA Credit Amount: SDR 34.3 million (US$50 m:illion equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project description:  The purpose of this operation is to provide critical balance of payment
support in conjunction with the promotion of the structural reforms
urgently needed to improve the performance and organization of the
education system through:
(a) Improved allocation of resources through measures aimed at promoting
priority resource allocation to primary education and ensuring that the
budget is structured in a manner that reflects this priority as well as that of
improving the quality of education;
(b) Increased efflciency in the use of resources through measures geared,
particularly at the primary level, to increase access at marginal costs;
(c) Protection of quality inputs using measures targeting at improved
pedagogical support to teaching and increased availability of teaching
materials at all levels of education; and
(d) Mobilizing non-public resources by encouraging private and community
financing of primary education.
There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Education Sector Adjustment Credit of SDR 34.3 (US$50 minlion equivalent) to the Republic of
Mali. The credit is to support the Government's structural adjustment effort with particular focus
on reforms in the education sector, The Credit would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity
of 40 years. Part I of the document discusses the Borrower's recent economic performance and
the rationale for using adjustment lending in the education sector. Part II of the document
discusses the proposed operation.
2.    The proposed Education Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) would be the fifth adjustment
credit to Mali. The Public Enterprise Adjustment Credit (1988) focused on improving the
performance of the para-public sector, and reducing its burden on public finances; the Education
Sector Hybrid (1989) aimed at improving education sector performance and relevance and
promoting more cost-effective use of scarce resources; the Agriculture Sector Hybrid (1990)
emphasized improved productivity and efficiency of the cotton and cereals sub-sectors; and the
Structural Adjustment Credit (1990) emphasized private sector promotion through improvement
of the incentives and regulatory framework as well as improved public resources management; in
particular reducing the share of the wage bill and ensuring increased allocations for the social
sectors, and for operations and maintenance. This operation aims to continue the program of
structural reforms in the education sector as a critical element of the effort to improve public
resources management and promote human resources development.
PART I. MACRO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND THE RATIONALE
FOR THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A.   Economic Performance over the period 1989-931.
3.    Agriculture provices a livelihood for close to 90% of Mali's rapidly growing population
(about 9 million with an estimated growth rate of 3.2% per annum). Economic performance is
constrained by a weak human and physical resource base, and by extremely variable climatic
conditions. However, the adjustment and stabilization efforts pursued by the Government in
recent years, coupled with the change in the parity of the CFA fianc in January 1994, provide an
opportunity for Mali to exploit more filly its comparative advantage in agriculture and livestock
and in other sectors such as gold mining and agro-processing.
A more dotiled desription of the Malian economy can be found in the Country Assistance Srtey which
accompanies this report.



2
1. Growth.
4.    Real GI?P growth has averaged about 3.4% annually over the past five years (1989-93),
improving from the average of 2.3% during 1980-1988. Growing at an annual average rate of
4.1%, the primary sector contributed the most to GDP growth. The secondary sector grew at
3.2%, while the tertiary sector grew at an average of 2.8% annually. The subsectors that
experienced the highest growth over the period, were mining at an average of 8.5% annually, and
food crops (rice and other cereals) at an annual average of 6.2%. Gross domestic investment
increased as a share of GDP, from an annual average of 16.4% during 1980-88, to 22% over the
period, but the low efficiency of investment has remained a source of concern. Domestic saving
did not increase significantly over the period, averaging about 5.5% of GDP annually, and
remaining well below the level of investment. Per capita income, though increasing from about
US$260 in 1989 to about US$3002 in 1992, is still one ofthe lowest in the world.
2. Fiscal and Monetary Performaoce.
5.    The Government has pursued tight fiscal and monetaty policies in recent years as part of
its structural adjustment effort (paras 12-17). While the overall Government budget deficit3
(commitment basis and excluding grants) fell from 12.3% of GDP in 1991 to 9.6% in 1993, the
current budget remained at a deficit of about 0.7% of GDP.  Total Government current
expenditure declined from 15.5% of GDP in 1991 to 13.7/o over the period. Revenue
pertfonnance worsened however, falling from 16.3% of GDP to 13.8% in 1993. The Government
has outlined a program of measures to strengthen tax (particularly customs) administration in an
effort to boost revenue performance. The fiscal balance gains are thus fragile and threatened by
continued inefficiency of resource use in some key sectors, notably education, and by the low
domestic revenue effort. The monetary authorities have also pursued a tight credit policy, while
the Government has reduced its obligations vis-a-vis the banking system in order to free credit for
private sector use.
6.    As a result of its tight monetary and fiscal policies, the Government has been successfi4 in
containing inflation. As measured by the GDP deflator, inflation has averaged 1.7%/ over the past
five years. Despite this good performance, given the considerable nominal ovenraluation of the
CFAF, the economy's competitiveness did not improve significantly. This lack of competitiveness
was aggravated by the steady and significant depreciation of the currencies of competitor
countries such as Ghana and Nigeria and by Malis worsening terms of trade. This continued lack
of competitiveness led to Mali's decision in concert with other African members of the Franc
Zone, to devalue the CFA franc (para. 11). Developments since then are analyzed below
(paras. 13-16).
2  Pat of this increase reflects the appreciation of the CFAF vis-&-vis the US$.
3  The budget numbets incorpoate special accounts, amnexed budgets and extrabudgetary expenditures.



3
3. Balance of Payments.
7.    Mali's external accounts have improved since the late 1980s. The current account deficit
fell from 14.4% in 1989, to 12.8% in 1993. Export volumes have increased at an average annual
rate of 8% over the same period, while import volumes grew at 2.5% annually. Further
improvement in the external account has been constrained by adverse terms of trade due to falling
world market cotton prices.
8.    Total public debt outstanding and disbursed (including IMF purchases) exceeded 106% of
GDP at the end of 1988 but fell to 94.3% of GDP by the end of 1993. Mali has benefited from
generous bilateral debt relief under the Paris Club arrangement. In 1992, CFAr S billion of its
bilateral debt - covering all arrears to end September 1992, and obligations for the consolidation
period from October 1992 through August 1995 -- was rescheduled under enhanced Toronto
tems.
B.   Progress on the Adjustment Agenda.
9.    After several aborted attempts at structural adjustment in the early 1980s, the Governnent
of Mali launched its adjustment effort in earnest in 1988 and has since implemented a wide range
of economic and sectoral policy reforms. Macroeconomic policies have aimed at: (i) restoring
fiscal, monetary and external balance equilibria through greater fiscal and monetary discipline;
(ii) improving efficiency in the use of public resources by containing the public sector wage bill,
and restructuring expenditures in favor of the social sectors; and (iii) improving incentives for
private sector development through trade, tax and regulatory reforms, restructuring of the public
enterprise sector, and liberalization of domestic trade and prices. Sectoral reforms have focused
on improving the efficiency and international competitiveness of the cotton sector through pricing
and taxation reforms, ensuring adequate supply and efficient distribution of cereals through the
liberalization of cereals market, raising primary enrollment ratios while improving educational
quality at all levels, developing education in line with labor market trends, extending access to
primary health care services through greater community participation in primary health care
delivery and management, and reducing the high fertility rate. The underlying objective has been
to improve the competitiveness of the economy and lay the foundation for the sustained longer-
term growth needed to raise standards of living and alleviate poverty.
10.  Implementation of this program over 1988-91 was strong, and overall, good progress has
been made in implementing reform measures. On the macroeconomic front, prices have been fiully
liberalized; the pre-reform trade regime, which was biased against exports and favored inefficient
import substitution, has been dismantled and replaced by a more open and efficient trade regime;
the regulatory framework has been made more conducive to private sector activity through
revisions to the labor, commercial, investment and mining codes; overafl management of public
resources has been improved by increasing its transparency and strengthening the control and
monitoring of public expenditures, and by reducing the share of the wage bill in curent
expenditures; 35 public enterprises have been liquidated or privatized and 7 restructured to
improve their performance; and the burden of the parapublic sector on public finances has been
considerably reduced. Sectoral reforms have been the most successfiul in agriculture. The



4
efficiency of cotton production has been imoroved, as evidenced in the fall in production costs
from CFAF 420/kg in 1992, to CFAF 3851kg in 1993. Production and marketing of cereals are
now more efficient. In the education sector, however, little progress has been made in achieving
the reform program objectives. Given this sector's weight in current expenditures, this threatens
the sustainability of fiscal balance gains (para. 22).
11.  Implementation of the program slowed down between March 1991 and the fall of 1992,
during the transition from a military dictatorship to a more open and democratic government.
However, over the last 18 months, the Government has revitalized its econonic reform program
and is moving ahead in implementing key aspects of its policy reform agenda. In January 1994, in
response to the economy's conwinued lack of competitiveness, Mali in conjunction with other
African member countries of the Franc Zone, changed the fixed parity of the CFA franc from 50
to 100 CFAF per FF, thus dramatically deepening its adjustment strategy. The Government is
also taking bold steps to rationalize and improve the performance of the critical education sector.
1. Policy Framework Paper 1994-1996.
12.  In January 1994, the Government prepared, in consultation with the IMF and the Bank, a
fourth-year Policy Framework Paper (PFP). The parity change forms the centerpiece of the PFP
but it also recognizes the importance of accompanying measures and of strict policies to ensure
that significant real depreciation can be achieved. This improved competitiveness should provide
the impetus for growth in all sectors of the Malian economy and thus provide a strong basis for
poverty alleviation efforts. The key objectives are to: (i) achieve real GDP growth of about 5%
over the period; (ii) limit inflation to less than 35% in 1994, and return to low pre-devaluation
levels by 1996; (iii) improve the current budget position from a deficit of 1.9% of GDP in 1994 to
a surplus of 2.8% by 1996; and (iv) reduce the overall fiscal deficit from 15.1% of GDP in 1994
to 10% by 1996 and reduce the current account deficit from 20.4% of GDP in 1994 to 13.4% by
1996.
2. Performance since the January 1994 parity change.
13.   The Government has succeeded in surpassing key macroeconomic objectives in the first
six mnonths following the devaluation. In particular the real effective exchange rate depreciated
by about 40% between December 1993 and June 1994, the overall deficit on a commitment basis
and excluding grants was CFAF 40.9 billion, compared to a target of CFAF 77.2 billion, and
inflation is estimated at 26%, compared to the projected level of 35%. However, customs
revenue performance has been significantly below program targets due in part to weak customs
administration and continued customs fraud. The impact of this has been exacerbated by a shift in
import sources in favor of neighboring CFA countries, imports from which are subject to lower
tariffs rates.
14.  In the real sector, livestock exports to neighboring countries are now more competitive
with imports from the European Union and South America. Recorded exports to C6te d'Ivoire
in the first half of 1994 have nearly tripled with respect to the previous comparable period.
The financial viability of the cotton sector has been restored, with profits for the 1993/94 crop



5
year projected to reach about CFAF 20 billion. Local rice is now able to compete with
imports from Asia without recourse to excessively high levels of protection. Exports of
vegetables such as potatoes and onions to neighboring countries have also increased. These
favorable effects in agriculture mezn increased returns to farmers and a boost to rural incomes.
In the cotton sector, under the performance contract signed at the end of June 1994, cotton
farmers are becoming full partners in managing the sector and in making key decisions on use
of sector proceeds. Cotton farmers will receive a 47% increase in the floor price of seed
cotton, and an increase in their share of sector profits from 25% to 33%.
IS.   The indications of expansion of industrial activity are equally encouraging.
HLJICOMA, the cottonseed oil plant, has dramatically expanded sales to regional markets,
where its product is now very competitive. Two key textile producing enterprises, which had
remained closed for several years, have recently resumed operations, and it is expecte4 that a
third vegetable oil-producing venture will follow suit shortly. The sustainability and the
further expansion of this initial encouraging supply response will depend, among others, on the
rapidity and the effectiveness with which the current levels of excess liquidity of the domestic
banking sector can be channeled to finance private investment activity.
16.   On the social front, the initial anticipation of widespread disturbances resulting from
severe adverse short-term impacts of the parity change has not materialized. The Government
has gone to great lengths to build adherence to the program by mounting a public education
campaign explaining the need for the change, its likely impacts and the accompanying
measures to address adverse effects. It has in particular provided weekly reviews of price
movements in the press, indicating areas and particular markets where prices are lowest.
Labor unions were also consulted on the issue of wage increases. Furthermore, the moderate
inflation trend observed since the devaluation and the provision of CFAF 13 billion for safety
net expenditures have helped mitigate adverse social impacts. The Government has also taken
steps to prevent shortages of essential drugs and of textbooks for primary school students.
17.   The parity change provides a unique opportunity for Mali to benefit from the structural
reforms already in place to promote longer term growth and alleviate poverty. However,
addressing the current distortions in the education sector will be a critical prerequisite to Mali's
ability to filly benefit from this opportunity.
3. Medium Term Growth Prospects 1994-99.
18.   Assuming continued strong performance on short-term macroeconomic management,
implementation of structural reform measures to sustain competitiveness gains and success in
regional integration efforts, GDP growth over the medium term is expected to average about
5% annually. This growth is expected to come largely from agriculture with considerable
expansion expected in cotton, cereals and livestock production. Plans are underway to
increase cotton ginning capacity and there is considerable capacity to increase irrigated rice
and livestock production.  Output of non-traditional products such as exotic fruits and
vegetables is an emerging area of growth and the Government is already encouraging private
sector efforts to tap this potential. The improvement in competitiveness is also expected to



6
allow fuller use of existing capacity in industries such as textiles, tanneries and leather, and
agro-processing. Output of the gold mining sector is expected to increase to over 15 tonnes
annually from the current level of about 3 -innes by 1999. This growth performance should
allow average annual real export growth of about 8.8%  over the period.  Investment is
projected to increase to 27% of GD)P. A large part of this increase reflects the high import
content of investment and the anticipated larger increase in the price of investment goods
relative to the GDP deflator. Nevertheless investment in the social sectors, mining and in
agro-industry, in particular are expected to expand significantly.  This increase will be
financed largely from external sources but domestic savings is prjected to increase to about
10% of GDP by 1999.
4. External Financing Requirement.
19.   Total import requirements for 1994-95 amount to about US$1.7 billion. Exports, private
transfers and private investment are expected to provide about US$1.2 billion of this total. After
taking into account commitments already made for project loans, use of IMF resources, and
existing debt relief arrangements, the remaining external financing requirements for the period
amount tJ about US$224 million. IDA's expected contribution totals US$112 million: US$22
million from the last tranche of SAC I disbursed in January 1994; US$25 million from the
Economic Recovery Credit disbursed over March-April 1994; US$50 million from the proposed
operation, and US$15 million from a second adjustment operation. The remaining US$112
million is expected to be covered by additional grants and concessional loans from bilateral as well
as multilateral sources.
C.   Rationale for Bank Involvement and for using adjustent lending In the
Education Sector.
20.   A full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is presented in conjunction with this operation.
The ultimate objective of the Bank's assistance to Mali is the alleviation of poverty. The pillars of
this poverty alleviation strategy are: (i) sustained broad-based economic growth; (ii) human
resources development; and (iii) a special focus on the needs of the most vulnerable groups
through a strengthened social safety net system, appropriate macroeconomic and sectoral reform
measures, and carefully targeted interventions. Given these objectives, interventions in the
education sector are a key priority of the CAS. The use of adjustment lending in the sector,
represents the first step in IDA's two -step strategy of support to this critical sector. The first step
is to remove structural constraints to efficient use of sector resources. The second step is to build
upon such efficiency gains to increase the amount of external resources allocated to education in
the context of an integrated sector investment operation.
21.   The proposed operation seeks to use a short-term adjustment lending instrument to
address problems in a sector where the traditional instrument of intervention is investment
lending. The rationale for this choice is that the removal of structural constraints on efficient
allocation and use of resources in the education sector has become crucial to the success of the
overall structural adjustment program. Education sector reforms are essential for: (i) improving
public finances and ensuring the sustainability of fiscal balance gains; (ii) ensuring that the



7
adjustment process strengthens a key social sector; (iii) creating a sectoral environment that
permits the effective use of investment funds; and (iv) enhancing the social acceptability, and
hence tho credibility, of the Govemment's adjustment effort.
22.   The restoration of fiscal equilibrium is a critical component of the adjustment program
This implies the containment of overall expenditures as well as improved efficiency in resource
use. The education sector has consumed an average of over 20% of total public recurnt
expenditures over the last five years. However, the management of the resources allocated to the
sector has been very poor and an insufficient share has been allocated to prinary education.
Given the weight of the sector in overall finances, reform of resource allocation and use within the
sector is a clear imperative. Without such reform, the sustainability of the overall fiscal balance
gain is questionable since: (i) the sector wage bill would increase significantly, thus exerting
strong upward pressure on the entire wage bill, unless better use is made of teaching staff-, and
(ii) fellowship spending would continue to increase in the absence of appropriate eligibility criteria
coupled with better control of student admissions at the post-primary levels. In addition, without
structural changes in budget allocation in favor of education quality inputs, the present high level
of resource waste through exceptionally high repetition rates would continue.
23. Strengthening key social sectors. Reforms in the education sector are an integral part of
the Government's effort to use the adjustment process to address key social issues. To this end,
the Government took action, under the ongoing SAC I, to ensure minimum budget shares for the
education sector. However, given the gross distortions and inefficiencies in the sector, this was
not sufficient to ensure the desired impact. In particular, the rate of growth of primary education
has barely kept pace with population growth. In an era of increased fiscal stringency, drastic
improvements in the effectiveness of the allocation and use of education resources are imperative
to ensure that the basic needs of one essential segment of the population - the approximately
three-quarters of primary-school aged children who do not have access to primary education -
are not sacrificed in favor of the narrow interest of more vocal and powerfil constituents in
particular secondary and higher education students. This is also very much in line with the efforts
to ensure growth with greater equity.
24.   Creating a sound sector environment. Mali is one of the countries in West Africa
having the largest scope for efficiency gains in the education sector. Distortions in that area
constitute a significant bottleneck for Government efficiency and the resulting poor performance
of the education system is throttling the long-terrn supply response to structural reforms. All key
donors agree that long-term development prospects crucially depend on substantially improved
education and that removal of the major resource allocation and use distortions in the sector is a
prerequisite to achieving this objective. Consequently they are holding back further support for
the sector until the Govermnent has successfully established a framework within which resources
can effectively help accelerate the development of primary education. Donors are looking to IDA
to help the Government establish this framework. Because of its long involvement in and
knowledge of the sector, the Bank is in a good position to provide the required leadership for
policy dialogue. Eliminating the structural constraints on efficient resource allocation and use
within the sector will establish a policy and operational framework in which the resumption of
donor investments - the second step in our education sector strategy -- would then be justified.



8
This is the main reason for IDA involvement and for the linkage, in consultation with the
Government, of the balance of payment support needed to finance the post- devaluation program
to significant progress in the education sector.
25.   The main objective of the proposed operation is to provide such help. Once this
framework is in place, Step 2 would develop and implement an investment program to accelerate
the development of primary education, improve education quality, strengthen the sectores
managerial capacity, and better adjust the development of post-primary education to the demands
of the labor market. Supported by several donors, the Governrent has already started the
preparation of the second step, and the appraisal of IDA's support for the related investment
program would take place following the release of the last tranche of the proposed credit.
26.   Enhancing the credibility of Government's adjustment efforts. Reforms in the sector,
though opposed by upper-secondary and higher education students who stand to lose, are now
supported by a growing segment of the population. In the recently concluded national consensus-
building initiative, one of the key messages clearly and repeatedly received from the vast majority
of participants concerned the need to address distortions in the education sector and expand
primary education coverage. Implementation of such reforms with Bank support will help
strengthen the credibility of the Government's overall adjustment program and secure broad-based
adherence to the program. This is increasingly critical for the program's success, given the
transition to participatory democracy.
27. In summary, with most structural reforms already in place or underway, education stands
out as the priority area for reforms designed to correct distortions that inhibit long-term growth.
Considering the structural nature of the reforms required, an adjustment operation incorporating
the implementation of a set of time-bound reform measures is the most appropriate lending
instrument and the appropriate next step in the sequence of structural reforms.
28.   Status of Bank Group operations. To date, the Bank Group has extended 55 credits to
Mali (including Africa facilities Special Funds and Supplementary Credit) totaling about US$914
million equivalent. As of September 30, 1994, IDA had total commitments of about UST4097
million in support of 16 credits in Mali. Of these resources, US$240 million had been disbursed,
and about US$2.0 million were canceled. Of the total portfolio, US$135 million represented
adjustment and policy reform lending (SAC I, PESAP, ERC), and the remainder consisted of
investments operations with two hybrid projects (AgSECAC and Education Consolidation
Project). Between FY86 and FY90, annual commitments averaged about US$56 million, but
increased to about US$72 million between FY91-94. About 29% of the portfolio was in
Agriculture, 28% in Infrastructure, 11% in Industry and Energy, 9%/o in Population and Human
Resources, and about 23% in adjustment lending



9
PART H. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.   Background.
29.   The education system consists of: (a) nine years of basic education, comprised of a six-
year "Cycle 1' sanctioned, through examinations, by a completion certificate at grade 6 and a
three-year "Cycle 2", sanctioned by the basic education diploma at the completion of grade 9;
(b) upper secondary education, offering either three years of general education (leading to the
Baccalattrat) or vocational training lasting from two to four years; and (c) higher education in
seven grandes ecoles. Literacy and numeracy training has been offered in national languages for
youth in 20 pilot Education for Development Centers in 1994, and adult literacy4 programs are
offered in both French and national languages.
30.   Responsibility for administration of the education system is divided between the Ministry
of Basic Education (grades 1-9), and the Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education and
Scientific Research. Management authority for primary schools has been delegated to Regional
Directorates (eight regions and the district of Bamako), while the rest of the system is centrally
administered from the capital.
31.   The education sector employs about 44% of the total civil service and manages over 20%
of the Government recurrent budget. However, the sector, particularly the Ministry of Basic
Education, suffers from: (i} duplication between pedagogical services (Pedagogical Institute and
Basic Education Directorate); (ii) weak administrative and finance services, particularly with
regard to budgeting and staff management; (iii) poor capacity for policy analysis and planning; and
(iv) untrained middle-level administrative staff. The Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education
has limited but qualified staff. As described in para. 59, a number of donors are supporting
activities designed to improve the planning and management capacity of the sector. However, the
frequent changes of ministers and high-level staff have hampered the institution-building effects of
this assistance.
32.   The provision of education is almost entirely publicly financed, although four types of non-
public schools exist at the primary education level. Most numerous are the medersas, which offer
Literacy in Arabic to more than 54,500 students (about 12.6% of enrollment in 1992-93) in 263
schools, most of which not accredited by the Ministry of Basic Education because of the non-
conformity of their curricula with the official curricula. The other three types of private schools
are community-based, Catholic, and secular. Together they account for just 3% of primary
enrollment. In the last few years, at least 105 private and community schools have been created at
the initiative of parents, teachers, and the community at large, entirely financed through parental
4 Mali is the African country with the greatest experience in adult literacy. The first Literacy Centers were opened
in 1968 as part of the World Literacy Experimental Program financed by UNDP and executed under tlw aegis of
UNESCO. In 1993, about 5,430 centers were operating in 2,270 villages, with about 101,118 auditors including
about 12,116 women. These centers are managed by the Ministry of Basic Education (22%) and by development
projects and NGOs (78%).



10
contributions (paras. 49-50).  These non-public schools present a promnising avenue for
development
33.   Despite the significant amount of resources invested in Mali's education sector, its
performance over the last two decades has been dismal. Mali is among the five countries in the
world with the lowest coverage of public primary education (25% compared to the Sub-Saharan
Africa average of 77%) and adult literacy rate (less than 20% compared to 52% for SSA). This
poor performance reflects severe structural distortions in resource allocation and use in the sector.
The ongoing hybrid Education Sector Consolidation Project (approved May 17, 1989) was
designed to eliminate these distortions. This was not achieved, essentially for political reasons.
While a first series of reforms was implemented, the second and third tranches were canceled in
April 1993. Their release would have required measures opposed by vested interests (teachers'
unions and student groups) who had been instrumental in the 1991 overthrow of the military
regime and had subsequently become key participants in the transitional government during the
period preceding the democratic elections held in mid-1992.
34.   During the past year, the Government has reasserted its authority, dealt firmly with vested
interests, and shown a strong commitment to moving ahead with the required reforms. Student
leaders responsible for vandalism were arrested and tried in early 1994. Following a wide-ranging
consensus-building effort throughout the country, the 1994/95 school year has gotten off to a
smooth start. Important efficiency measures that had previously been rejected (e.g. double-shift
teaching, use of criteria for allocating scholarships, redeployment of teachers) were prepared by
the Government and introduced at the start of the current school year, and the reform process has
gathered significant momentum.
B.   Main Issues.
1. Limited development of primary education and uncontrolled growth at other
levels.
35.   Compared to other Sub-Saharan countries (Annex 3), Mali's educatonal performance over
the last 20 years has been exceptionally poor. Improvement of the present dismal situation
requires radical changes in the Government's priorities and in resource allocation within the
education sector. Since 1975 the enrollment ratio has stagnated at between 25% and 30%Mo. The
low level of primary enrollment masks wide differences by gender (girls represent about 37% of
primary enrollment) and by region (enrollment ratios range from 11% in the North to 60% in
Bamako). In secondary education (grades 10-12), the enrollment ratio increased slightly (from
S% to 6%) between 1970 and 1993, while higher education enrollment expanded more than
tenfold over the same period (from 700 students in 1970 to 10,030 in 1993, including about 2,000
students abroad). However, despite the fairly modest coverage of secondary and higher
education, an estimated 11,500 secondary and higher education graduates were unemployed in
1991.
36.   Although demand for education, particularly from girls, is low in some rural areas, the
main cause of primary education stagnation is supply constraints, resulting partly from the



11
insufficient share of the education budget allocated to primary education (34%) and inefficient use
of existing resources at all levels. In urban areas, these constraints are evidenced by overcrowded
classes (generally more than 60 pupils per class) and restrictions on new admissions at the start of
each school year. In rural areas, growth is constrained by a combination of insufficient supply
(schools and teachers) and demand factors aggravated by poor school mapping (i.e., optiial
location of schools in relation to population). The perceived low benefits of primary education,
resulting from declining opportunities for modem sector employment, is another factor adversely
affecting demand. However, education provides broad benefits by developing basic skdlls and
abilities to better use environmental resources and opportunities, thus facilitating employment in
the informal sector and promoting increased productivity in agriculture. In addition, education
influences women's views regarding traditions, their role within the family, and their ambitions for
their children. As a result, education is associated with better family health including lower infant
mortality, better nutrition and lower fertility rates. Efforts made by rural communities through the
Parents' Associations to construct schools (and even finance their operating costs) indicate that
the main constraint on enrollment growth, even in rural areas, is on the supply side.
37.   The existing nine-year basic education structure is too ambitious at the present time
considering Mali's limited resources, the very low enrollment ratio at the first cycle, and the fact
that less than I out of 75 children of school-age completes the nine-grade cycle.5 Instead of
giving the appearance of offering nine years of basic education through a system that in reality
admits only one out of three children of school age, Mali should, as do other countries at a
comparable level of development, focus on providing primary education (nornally 5 to 7 grades)
for all before extending the duration of the primary cycle to cover what is, throughout the world,
considered lower secondary education.
38.   Closely related to the issue of educational structure are the policies of student admission
to secondary and higher education and student 'orientation" to specific fields of study. Currently,
all graduates of any given educational cycle are guaranteed access to the subsequent cycle. All
students who pass grade 6 may continue to grade 7, and all students who successfully complete
grade 9 are admitted to upper secondary education, though academic criteria are used to allocate
("oriente') students among different streams of secondary education. Finally, all students
completing the Baccalaturiat have access to higher education.
39.   In suammary, the length of basic education (nine years), coupled with automatic access to
subsequent education levels for all graduates, has resulted in an education structure which more
closely resembles a thin cone rather than the broad pyramid commonly found in other countries.
Six or seven years of terminal basic/primary education were part of the education landscape in most industialized
countries, undil after the second World War-almost 50 years after they achieved universal primary enrollment.
The creation of basic education consisting of nine or ten years stems from both the requirements of the production
technologies and the generalization of primary education and related pressures. During the last decade, changes in
technology, combined with suctural changes in the labor market, have been leading these countries to generalize
upper secondary education. Except for Mali, none of the developing countries which have begun implementing
nine-year basic education during the last two decades has done so prior to achieving a primary education
enrollment ratio of about 70%.



12
2. Low quality and internal efriciency.
40.   Primary education. For the last two decades, the internal efficiency of Mali's primary
education has remained among the lowest in the world. Accounting for the waste due to
repetition (25-30%) and drop-outs (10%), it takes about 24 pupil-years of schooling to produce
one primary education graduate, instead of the normal six pupil-year, and only one in four
children enrolled at this level will complete grade 6. Research conducted in many countries shows
that excessive repetition is not an effective way to help slow learners. Achievement tests
conducted for grades 2 and 5 show that the majority of pupils fail to master the curriculum in
French and math, and many of them do not attain literacy before leaving school. This poor
perfornance is linked to the lack of instructional materials, overcrowded classrooms in urban
areas, an overburdened curniculum (32 hours per week versus the international average of 26-27),
inappropriately trained teachers, insufficient pedagogic support to teachers (75 pedagogical
advisers or 1/104), and students' limited comprehension of the language of instruction. Most of
these weaknesses could be addressed through more effective allocation and use of the resources
available in the sector.
41.   At the lower secondary level (grades 7-9) the situation is no better. The repetition and
drop-out rates average 26% and 20% respectively, and the success rate on the basic education
graduation exam at the end of grade 9 is rarely above 50%M0. The low quality of upper secondary
education is seen in low pass rates on the Baccalaur&at examination (less than 50% on the first
part of the exam and less than 60% on the second), and high dropout rates (21% after grade 11).
As a result, it takes six years of schooling to produce one graduate from the three-year cycle. In
higher education, repetition rates vary between 19%/6 and 40% (depending on the school), and
the average student needs eight years to earn a degree which should require four years. With the
exception of the school of medicine, low quality stems from the lack of educational materials
(textbooks, laboratories, equipment, etc.), inadequate maintenance of school facilities, and the
absence of admissions controls.
3. Inefficient allocation and use of resources.
42.   The education sector's share in the Government recurrent budget is about 20%/o as
compared to an average of about 16 % in Sub-Saharan Africa. While most expenditure categories
have remained stable in real terms over the past several years, the amount allocated for secondary
and higher education fellowships increased from CFAF 3 billion to CFAF 5 billion between 1990
and 1993, and rose to CFAF 5.9 billion in 1994' (about 20% of the public education budget).
This illustrates the fact that the key public expenditures issue in the sector is not that of
underfinding, but rather of grossly ineffective allocation of existing funds within the sector.
6   This includes approximately CFAF 2 billion for educational mterials, medical care and other in kind subsidies;
actual cash transfers to students are budgeted at CFAF 3.9 billion in 1994. However, these transfers stopped in
Febmary 1994 with the closure of secondary and higher education institutions, so actual fellowship expenditures
in 1994 are likely to be much less than what was budgeted.



13
43.  Ineffective alocation of resources. Primay education's share of the education budget
averaged 34% over the 1987-1992 period, comparing poorly with the average of 47/o for low-
income countnies. The latest public expend;ture review for Mali highighted the difficulty of
programming, managing and evaluating primary education expenditures (grades 1-6) becase of
their combination with the budget of lower secondary education (grades 7-9). This low budget
share for primary education runs against Mali's stated priority of developing this level of education
and is contrary to the objectives of the ongoing Education Sector Consolidation Project (Cr.
2054-MLI): the share of primary education in the sector budget was targeted to increase from
35% in 1988 to 45% in 1994, but was 34% in 1993. Spending per pupil was estimated (after the
devaluation) at about US$35, which is significantly higher than the average of about US$24 for
francophone SSA countries. As teachers! salaries are not higher than in other SSA countries, this
reflects a high level of inefficiency in the use of teachers.
44.   Expenditures for secondary and technical education increased by 70% between 1990 and
1993. This increase is mainly due to the reintroduction of fellowships following the events of
1991. In 1993, fellowship spending had increased to 50% of total secondary expenditures,
leaving few resources for the financing of quality inputs.
45.   Fellowship expenditures represent about 67% of the higher education expenditures, thus
limiting the level of quality input expenditures. As in the case of secondary education, this high
share is caused by three factors: (i) fellowships are awarded to everybody regardless of academic
performance or socio-economic status; (ii) the amount paid to students increased by 75% in 1992
(para. 56): each student receives about US$685 annually (post-devaluation exchange rate), which
is about 19 times the per-pupil cost in primary education; and (iii) the steady increase in higher
education enrollments. Such increased and untargeted expenditures are a poor use of public
education resources and have a highly regressive social impact (85% of higher education students
come from "non-poorw families). Because of the high level of unemployment, the current
fellowship policy distorts students' incentives to complete their studies in a timely manner while
taking away resources which would be better spent on expanding primary education and
improving educational quality.
46.   Given the inefficiency in resource use, the existence of two Ministries of Education might
appear as a firther source of waste. The education sector was under a single ministry when the
post-transition Government took over in 1992. Strong resistance to reforms by militant
secondary and higher education students deflected the ministers and the Government's attention
away from primary education which was left without an effective spokesperson. As a result, the
current set up was established and is justified by this political context. Additional costs of having
two ministries are not significant as most personnel remained unchanged and constitute an
acceptable trade-off for a sharper focus on basic education. Coordination between the two
ministries is good and enhanced by the sector-wide approach adopted by the Govenment and its
external partners in addressing the problems of the Malian education system.
47.   Inefficient Utilization of Teachers. The approximately 17,000 employees of the two
Ministries of Education account for almost 44% of the entire civil service, and absorb about 65%
of the sector recurrent budget. Of this number, about 3,000 (18% as compared to an average of



14
7%-8% in other countries) are assigned to non-teaching positions (secretaries, administrators,
etc.) within and outside the two mninistries. A large share of these 3,000 are teachers. This
represents a seriously inefficient use of human resources and public funds. As part of the ongoing
Education Project, an ad hoc commission established by the Government identified a first group
of teachers (about 350) in administrative positions to be redeployed to teaching positions in
October 1993. However, their redeployment was postponed following teachers' union resistance
and a change of Government and minister.
48.   There is serious under-utilization of existing teachers at post primary level. This is due to
past recruitment policies whereby everyone trained was automatically recruited, combined with a
concentration of teachers in Bamako and a relatively high number of foreign language teachers for
which demand has decreased and who are under-employed. However, this surplus coexists with a
scarcity of teachers in disciplines such as math, science and technical education.
4. Constraints on the development of private education.
49.   The contribution ofthe private sector to the development of education, particularly at the
primary level, is limited (about 15.6% of total enrollment in 1992-93). First, to be legaily
established, all private schools must have authorization from the Ministry of Education. Anyone
operating a school without Ministry authorization may be subject to both fines and imprisonment.
Yet no transparent, known process exists for obtaining this authorization; some aspiring school
directors have spent 2-3 years trying to get all ofthe necessary signatures. The Ministry's a prori
rather than ex-post controls discourage many private and community schools from forrming.
Second, lack of investment financing is a major constraint to the successful development of
private and community schools. While many families appear willing to pay the about US$2 per
month required for their child to attend school, they lack the means to pay for classroom
construction and equipment (around US$9,000 per classroom). This means that financially viable
primary schools have great difficulty getting off the ground.
50.   The creation of 105 private and community primary schools over the past four years
suggests that private financing of recurrent costs at the primary level is possible: depending on the
wealth, organization and location of the community, parental contributions used to pay locally-
hired teachers range from US$1-US$I0 per child per month. In rural areas, this may be
supplemented with sacks of grain, lodging, field work, etc.
S. Over-ambitious development program for higher education.
51.   Mali's higher education system was conceived and developed to address the urgent need
for civil servants after independence. Schools for public administrators, doctors, teachers,
engineers, accountants and agricultural agents (les grandes ecoles) were established, admitting all
students who successfully completed their Baccalattriat. Until 1984, all graduates from these
schools were guaranteed employment by the State. Viewed in this light, the higher education
system has achieved its original objectives; Mali has a sufficient number of university-trained civil
servants. However it needs skilled manpower in technical and scientific fields.



15
52.   However, the higher education system has not evolved to address the present needs of the
country, and is now seriously out of alignment with demand in the labor market, in both
quantitative and qualitative terms. All Baccalaur&at graduates are "oriented" by the State each
year to one of the grandes &coles. Students are given a scholarship and instructed to pursue a
four- or six-year fixed-curriculum graduate degree. There is no selection process, no effort or
capacity to assess labor market demand, and no flexibility in study programs. Consequently, the
number of higher education graduates far exceeds the present absorptive capacity of the modem
sector. An estimated 4,000 higher education graduates are now unemployed.
53.   Quality has suffered as 8,000 students crowd into facilities which were designed for a
maximum of 3,700 students. The types of training offered are largely irrelevant, the most obvio-
example being the ENA (Ecole Nationale d'Administration), which continues to produce seveAa
hundred "civil servants" each year even though the Government has a near-freeze on new hiring
and an existing backlog of unemployed ENA graduates. This overproduction of poorly-trained
higher education graduates represents massive and increasing resource waste and creates serious
social and political tensions among Mali's youth.
54.   These shortcomings have led to several efforts, since the late 1980s, to study the
restructuring of the higher education system, beginning with studies financed by the Afl)B and
llNDP, and culminating with a Government proposal, issued in April 1993, for the creation of the
University of Bamako, which was to open in October 1993. The Government study did not take
into account much of the analysis done by the AfDB and UNDP studies, which made less
ambitious proposals. Essential aspects of the University, such as the organization, administration,
costs and financing (investment and recurrent) were not fully addressed. In particular, the
relationship between the new University and the existing grandes tcoles was not sufficiently
defined, and there is a serious risk of considerable duplication of existing programs and structures.
The investments proposed are for a physical capacity of 14,000 students, and include capacity for
food and lodging of 500 and 2,000 students respectively. Bank-Government discussions of the
proposed university's dimensions and design, as well as lack of financing, led to the postponement
of the opening date to October 1995. Furthermore, as part of the preparation of the present
credit, the Government has agreed to review its approach (para. 81).
C.   Bank Involvement In the sector and lessons learned.
55.   The Bank's support for education in Mali started in 1973 through the First Education
Project (US$5 rnillion) which primarily addressed vocational education and training. This was
followed in 1977 by the Second Education Project (US$10 million), which focused on agricultural
education, including functional literacy programs, and in 1983 by the Third Education Project
(US$9.5 million), emphasizing institutional development, the expansion of basic education and
improved quality of agricultural/ivestock technicians.
56.   The fourth education project (US$26 million), the hybrid Education Sector Consolidation
Project which started in 1990, focuses on expanding primary enrollment and improving education
quality through restructuring of the sector's budgetary allocation, introduction of double-shift
teaching, redeployment of teachers in administrative positions, and controlling admission to post-



16
primary education. Secondary emphasis is placed on developing a strategy for the restructuring
of secondary and higher education. The quick disbursing component (US$3.0 million from IDA
and US$6.0 million in co-financing) was to be released in three tranches. The Goverment met
the conditions of the first tranche, including the establishment of a support fund for primary
education school construction, the restructuring of prnmary education teacher-training colleges,
the reduction of the fellowship budget, and the creation of an autonomous budget for "Cycle r
(grades 1-6). However, release of the second and third tranches was hampered by the political
events which led, in 1991, to a change of regime. The teachers' trade unions and students played
a key role in bringing about this change, thus becoming a strong pressure group. This led the
transitional Government to meet the students' demands for the reinstatement of fellowships in
secondary education while increasing the level of fellowships by 75% in higher education.
57.   Given these difficulties, the second and third tranches of the adjustment component were
canceled on April 16, 1993, but the investment component was maintained. The measures which
were not taken are: (i) limnitation of access to secondary and higher education; (d) regulations to
provide incentives for the development of private education; (iii) increase of primary education's
share of the education budget; (iv) decrease of the fellowships' share of the education budget;
(v) redeployment of primary education teachers; and (vi) introduction of double-shift teaching in
primary education. After some initial delays, implenentation of the investment elements of the
project (textbook provision, construction and rehabilitation of classrooms) has improved, and is
now well advanced.
58.   The lessons learned from the above include the need to: (i) reduce the main distortions in
resource allocation and use in the education sector prior to any new investments; (ii) address
entrenched opposition to sector reforms from students and teachers through information
campaigns to explain the reasons for the reforms and to build broad support through appropriate
sequencing of the measures to avoid a convergence of dissatisfaction among the different groups;
and (iii) focus on a limited number of strategic objectives and related issues and ensure the
continuity necessary to make a difference. The strategic objectives in the sector are, in order of
priori.y, rapid development of primary education, improvement of quality at all levels, and the
strengthening of the sector's managerial capacity (processes and culture). Due to the magnitude
and socio-political nature of the problems, these objectives can only be reached in the medium to
long term. However, reforms of the type supported through the present credit are a prerequisite
for the effectiveness of further investments in the sector.
D.   Other donors' involvement In the sector.
59.   During the last few years, the sector has benefited from broad support fiom the donor
community.  Belgium  supports primary education (rehabilitation, construction, fiuniture,
experimentation with local languages); Canada has contributed to recurrent costs; France is
involved in all levels of education and in strengthening of sector administration (curriculum
development, training, teaching staff, equipment, administration); Germany and Norway finance
expansion of primary education (construction, rehabilitation, furniture); the US, supports primary
education including private education and management (textbooks, classroom rehabilitation, girls'
education, evaluation, personnel management). AfDB, BID, and OPEC are also involved in the



17
expansion of primary education. Regular donor consultations are organized by the Bank resident
mission, particularly during supevision missions.
60.   However, despite achievements in implementing certain discrete investment activities
(schools construction and equipment, procurement of textbooks, trining, etc.) over the last two
decades, donors have been singularly unsuccessfil in helping Mali develop and implement the
reforms required to adjust its education system to a level that was and is a basic requirement for
development. One important factor has been insufficient commitment of past govemments to the
expansion of primary education beyond the urban areas, primarily the district of Bamako.
E.   Policy dialogue.
61.   Despite the cancellation of the second and third tranches of the ongoing hybrid operation
(para. 57), IDA has continued the dialogue with the Government on policy reforms for the sector.
Furthermore, the urgent need for these reforms has been brought to the forefront of the macro
dialogue (especially during the Government-IDA jouintes de rflexion in February 1993) and
IDA has decided to link any further support for the sector, including the potential extension of the
ongoing project's closing date (December 1994) to the implementation of such reforms.
62.   The dialogue has gradually generated a consensus between MDA and the Govemment on
the reforms required. In May 1994, an IDA mission concluded tentative agreements between
IDA and the Government on all major aspects of the measres included in this Iitiating
Memorandum. Regarding the creation of the University (para. 50), the Government agreed to
develop a master plan under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA and to revise the exdsting text
accordingly. The issue of the separation of the first and second cycles of basic education through
the introduction of selection procedures between grades 6 and 7 was resolved during the technical
discussions held in November 1994 (para. 72).
F.   Government/lDA sectoral strategy: a two-step approach.
63.   Without significant efficiency gains, Mali cannot afford a rapid increase in enrollment
ratios. Given the already high share of the Government's budget devoted to education and Malis
severe public finance constraints, it is clear that any strategy aimed at acce'erating development of
primrniy education will have to be an integral part of an overall refonn strategy designed to
promote more effective and efficient use of existing resources and to gradually mobilize additional
resources from the private sector and local communities. Under existing conditions, increasing
enroDlment by 8% per year (well above the 3% population growth) would lead to an enrollment
rate of about 43% in 2005, but 53% of the sector budget - assumed to grow at the inflation rate
of 3% yearly - would then have to go to primary education (vs. the African 'norm' of 45-48%).
Allocating such a large share of resources to primary education would jeopardize the legitimate
development of post-primary education as well as quality improvement   Consequently,
development of primary education based mainly on a resource increase would be unsustainable
within the current framework of resource allocation and use.



18
64.   Alternatively, the same objective (8% yearly growth in enrollment ratio and a sector
budget growing at 3%) combined with only one of the planned efficiency measures - progessive
expansion of double shift first to 30% and then to 40% of the system by the year 2005 - would
result in the same enrollment rate of about 43% in 2005, but the budget share of primary
education would be an attainable 48%. Additional efficiency measures direcdy related to primary
education, namely the redeployment of teachers currently in adninistrative posts (about 1,700)
and increased student flow through reduction of repetition, would improve access by 95,000
pupils for the first year and by 148,900 for the second. With all proposed measures, to i
enrollment would reach about 53% by the year 2005, with the share of primary education at a still
acceptable 48%. In addition to the growth of the primary education sector, the constraints to
private initiatives would need to be alleviated.
65.   Within the above framework for accelerated development of primary education, the
dialogue between Mali and the Bank has led to an agreement on a two-step approach to the
development of the education sector. Step 1 consists of correcting the glaring resource allocation
distortions and inefficiencies in the sector, thereby establishing a pattern of resource allocation and
use that will make a resumption of investments in the sector meaningful. These reforms would be
aimed at reallocating resources, improving efficiency, protecting education and mobilizing non
public resources.
66.   Once such reforms have been implemented, Step 2 would finance an investment program
to support the accelerated expansion of primary education together with improvement of
educational quality and strengthening of the sector's manageral capacity. The Govemnment has
started, with UNDP/UNESCO assistance, the preparation of the second step. It has also set up a
national committee to review the objectives and content of basic education and mnake the
necessary recommendations for their adaptation to the new circumstances. Close consultations
are maintained between IDA and the UNDPIUNESCO team. Many donors (France, Germany,
Holland, UNDP) have expressed strong interest in co-financing a sector investment program with
IDA, provided the necessary structural reforms are successfilly implemented. Donors have made
this condition clear to the Government and they are looking to IDA to help the Government
develop and implement the reforms. Following the implementation of the requirements for the
release of the first tranche of the proposed credit, it is proposed that the preparation of IDA!s
support for Step 2 be started, with the appraisal of the proposed investment program linked to the
successful release of the second tranche.
67.  Implementation of the reforms supported by the present operation would permit an
increase in primary school enrollment by some 102,000 pupils (an increase of 21% in public
schools and at least 46% in private schools over 1993/94) by the 1995/96 school year at marginal
additional cost. This would help increase the primary school enrollment atio from 25% in
1992/93 to about 31% in the 1995/96 school year (beginning October 1995) when the reforms
supported by the present credit are expected to be fully impleniented. In addition, the rules
governing resource allocation and use in the sector would have been changed to ensure: O) an
increase in primary education's share of the education budget from 33% in 1993/94 to 38% in
1994/95, and to 43% in 1995/96; (ii) enhanced efficiency in the use of education resources
through double-shift teaching, redeployment of teachers and recruit-nent of temporay teachers to



19
ensure full use of all available classrooms (the teacher/pupil ratio would increase from 1/56 in
1992/93 to about 1/60 in 1995/96); (iii) separate budget line items for teaching materials and
other quality inputs (the spending on prmary teaching materials would triple to reach US$5 per
pupil by 1995/96); (iv) increased mobilization of private sector resources by the establishment of a
framework fostering the development of private and community-sponsored education; and
(v) development of a Master Plan for the renovation of higher education. The objectives of the
long term development program under preparation for Step 2 would be to achieve a primary
school enrollment ratio of at least 53% by the year 2005. While still quite modest in terms of
coverage, given the rapid population growth (3.1%), this would mean increasing enrollment
annually by about 8% each year over the ten-year period.
G.   Policy Implementation status.
68.   Since October 1993, the Government has moved on key sectoral policy issues. It has:
i) Introduced double-shift teaching in the 1993/94 school year (15% of first grade
classrooms); the curriculum was revised in August 1993 to take into account the required
changes (content and school hours). Expansion of double-shift teaching to about 30% of
first-grade classrooms and 15% of second-grade classrooms was undertaken in October
1994;
ii) Announced, in February 1994, the new fellowship policy and its application starting in
October 1994/95. This led to student riots, closing of upper secondary schools and the
University for the rest of the 1993/94 school year, arrest and trial of students implicated in
violence, and cessation of fellowship payments. To overcome future resistance, the
Government carried out a media campaign and lobbied the major social groups to prepare
for the October 1994 implementation of the new fellowship criteria. In October 1994, the
Government issued a decree setting the new conditions for award and cancellation of
fellowships and applied the award conditions to new students in secondary and higher
education for the 1994/95 school year;
iii) Formed, in January 1994, a new commission for the redeployment of teachers in non-
teaching positions, with representatives from the teachers unions and the ministries of
Education, Finance, and Civil Service. The Commission has identified the non-teaching
teachers and determined criteria for redeployment (age, number of years of secondment to
an administrative position, status of the family, etc.);
iv) Introduced, starting in 1993, separate budget lines for basic education instructional
materials (grades 1-6), payment for double-shift teaching, and recruitment of 750
temporary teachers. As a share of the total education budget, primary education spending
increased from 34% in 1993 to 38% in 1994 (compared to the .Sub-Saharan average of
about 47%). Furthermore, in its budget for 1995, the Government introduced a specific
chapter for primary education as well as the required budgetary lines, and used the
standard unit costs agreed upon with IDA under the proposed operation to compute the
budgets for teaching materials;



20
v) Authorized and financed, during the 1993-94 school year, the construction of 135 private
and community classrooms and issued, in October 1994, the texts providing incentives for
private and community school development.
PART ImL THE PROPOSED OPERATION
69.   The purpose of this sector adjustment operation is to provide critical balance of payment
support in conjunction with the promotion of the structural reforms urgently needed to improve
the performance and organization of the educational system. The operation supports the first step
of the two-step strategy outlined above.
A.   Policy agenda.
70.   The structural reforms promoted through this credit are strategic for the sector and aim at
establishing conditions conducive to achieving the priority sectoral objectives: accelerated
development of primary education, improvement of quality at all levels, better adjusting the
development of post-primary education to labor market demands, and strengthening of education
sector managerial capacity. The sequencing of the associated adjustment measures is linked to the
calendar of the school year (entrance, examinations). Implementation activities were for the most
part initiated in October 1993 and 1994 (para. 68), and will be pursued in Jure and October 1995.
The measures, which were confirmed with the Government during Negotiations, are- regrouped
under four policy objectives, namely: (i) improved allocation of resources; (ii) increased
efficiency, (iii) protection of quality inputs; and (iv) mobilization of non-public resources. These
measures are aimed at addressing the issues discussed in Part II above, and are summarized in the
Sector Reform Policy Matrix shown in Annex 4. Their implementation will increase total primary
enrollment by approximately 102,000 children by the start of the 1995/96 school year, a 21%
increase in enrollment compared to 1993, with only snull additional investments (details are
provided in Annex ). The Government's Letter of Education Sector Development Policy as
agreed with IDA is attached in Annex 6.
1. Improved allocation of resources.
71.   Measures 1-4 aim at promoting increased priority in resource allocation to primary
education and at ensuring that the budget is restructured in a manner that reflects this priority as
well as that of improvin! the quality of education.
72.   Measure 1: The Government will: (i) separate the first and second cycles of the nie-year
basic education system through the introduction of a system for access to grade 7 based on
academic criteria and enrollment capacity, to be applied at the end of grade 6. To this end, the
Government will issue, before June 1995, the appropriate texts on the conditions of access to the
second cycle of basic education (grade 7). Application of the selection system starting June 1995
will be a condition for second tranche release. An assessment of second-cycle schools capacity
will be undertaken under measure 10 (para. 82), as preparation for the implementation of the



21
present measure. In addition, and as part of Measure 4, the education budget has been
restructured to create a separate budgetary chapter for primary education.
73.   Measure 2: The Government will, in June 1995, and for the 1995/96 school year, apply
admission criteria to upper general secondawy education (grades 10-12) and to higher education
based on (i) available capacity at these two levels and (ii) academic performance on the final
examination at the preceding level. Access to vocational training at the secondary level will be
based on additional criteria, including available fuinctional practical training capacity. Regulatory
texts to introduce these structural reforms have been issued. Their application starting in June
1995, will be a condition for second tranche release (to be applied to exaaminations of June 1995
and intake in October 1995).
74.   Measure 3: The Government has issued two decrees defining the criteria for the award
and non-renewal of secondary and higher education level fellowships and has applied these criteria
to fellowship awards at the upper secondary and higher education levels, starting in the 1994/95
school year. These decrees introduce the principle that fellowship budget be based on a prior
definition of the affordable budgetary ceiling and define individual fellowship amounts, duration
and award (based on performance and equity) and retention (performance) criteria. The new
awards criteria have been applied to 1994/95 secondary and higher education new entrants. All
measures regarding scholarships will be filly applied to upper secondary and higher education
beneficiaries starting in July 1995 (including renewal on the basis of students' 1994/95 school year
achievements). This will be a condition of second tranche release. Government spending on
fellowships for the 1994/95 and the 1995/96 school -ears would not exceed its 1994 level in
nominal terms (CFAF 3.9 billion). Compliance with the budgetary ceiling (through the review
and agreement with IDA on the proposed sector budget for the relevant year) was a condition of
negotiations (school year 1994/1995) and will be a condition of second tranche release (school
year 1995/1996).
75.   Measure 4: To ensure sufficient financial resources to implement the proposed policy
measures, in addition to the restructuring of the education budget to establish a budgetary chapter
for primary education, the Government has allocated sufficient resources in the 1995 budget to:
(i) pay teachers ovettime for double shifts; (ii) redeploy ron-teaching teachers to teaching
positions; (iii) recruit new teachers on a contract basis at the regional level; (iv) meet the targets
of CFAF IS0 million and CFAF 300 million for budgetary allocation to elassoom maintenance in
1995 and 1996 respectively; and (v) increase the operating budget for pedagogical advisors by
20%. Compliance with these budgetary measures for 1995 was a condition of negotiations.
Actual expenditures on all budgetary items up to September 30, 1995 would be provided to IDA
for review. To help ensure that the above budgetary allocations are implemented at a level
satisfactory to IDA in 1996 budget, and become normal features of the budgetary decision maling
process, they would be conditions of second tranche release. Maintenance of these budgetary
allocations would be monitored under the proposed follow-up investment operation (para. 66).
The total budgetary impact of these measures is estimated to be CFAF 1.2 billion in 1995, and
CFAF 1.7 billion in 1996 (details are provided in Annex 7). Primary education spending would
increase in nominal terms by 15% in 1995 and 5% in 1996 (equivalent to nominal increases in
total education spending of 5% in 1995 and 2% in 1996).



22
2. Increased efficiency in the use of resource.
76.   Measures 5-10 aim at promoting the efficient use of resources, particularly at the primary
level in order to increase access at marginal cost.
77.   Measure 5: To increase efficiency in teacher and classroom utilization, the Goverunent
will, in the 1994/95 school year, expand double shift teaching to cover about 30% of all first
grade classrooms and about 15% of all second grade classrooms with the teacher/pupil ratio
expected to be on average, no less than 1/80 and not to exceed 1/90 in double-shift classrooms
(i.e.: an average class-size of about 40-45 pupils). In the 1995/96 school year, double-shift
teaching would be further expanded to at least 30% of all first grade classrooms, about 30% of all
second grade classrooms, and about 15% of all third grade classrooms. To help ensure that
double-shift teaching expands and becomes a nonnal feature of the education system, these
actions will be, respectively, conditions of effectiveness and of second tranche release. This
policy will continue after the reform program so that by the 1998/99 school year, about 30% of all
primary classrooms will operate on double shift. As part of Measure 4, sufficient resources
(equivalent to 25% of average primary teacher base salaries) will be allocated in the 1995 and
1996 education budgets and thereafter to finance overtime payments for teachers worldng double
shift.
78.   Measure 6: To reduce the current exceptionally high repetition rates in primary education
(para. 37), the Ministty of Basic Education will, by June 30, 1995, develop an action plan
satisfactory to IDA aimed at significantly reducing the repetition rates at the primary level, and
including guidelines to this effect to be issued to schools by October 1, 1995. This action plan
will take into account the expected improvement in the availability of quality inputs, and will
include steps for the involvement of inspectors and pedagogical advisers in the mobiliza'4on of
teachers around implementation of the plan. Agreement on said action plan and instructions by
October 1, 1995, will be a condition of second tranche release. The impact of this measure will be
monitored under the follow-up proposed education sector project. It will, over time, improve
student flows, increase the likelihood of students' reaching grade 6 (thus reducing drop-out rates),
and increase the number of school places available to non-enrolled children.
79.   Measure 7: For the 1994/95 school year, the Government has redeployed 350 non-
teaching teachers to primary classrooms. Effective redeployment of 350 teachers from
administrative to teaching positions was done prior to negotiations. This process will be repeated
before the 1995/96 school year, with at least 300 additional teachers redeployed prior to the
release of the second tranche. The redeployable teachers will attend a skills-updating session
before taking up teaching positions. As part of Measure 4, sufficient resources have been
allocated in the 1995 education budget and will be provided in the 1996 to finance teacher
relocation costs, estimated at about US$225 per teacher. The redeployment process will be
pursued beyond 1996 and monitored through the proposed IDA investment program with the aim
of reducing the share of administration personnel to about 8% of total sector staff.
80.   Measure 8: For the 1994/95 and 1995/96 school years, the Ministry of Education will
hire additional teachers (vacalaires) on a one-year contract basis. The exact number of teachers



23
to be hired will depend on the number of classrooms still without teachers when all existing
teachers, including those redeployed, are effectively employed. It is estimated that approximately
300 vacataires will be hired the first year, with an additional 300 hired for 199S196. About 300
vacataires were recruited before the opening of the school year in October 1994. Although not a
structural measure, this action, combined with redeployment, will promote a short-term increase
in access while ensuring that no classroom will stands empty for lack of a teacher.
81.   Measure 9:  To lay the foundation for the renovation of higher education, the
Govenmment will develop a Master Plan defining how the current grandes 4coles will be
transformed into a University in a manner compatible with the Government's financial constraints
and the realities of the labor market. The Master Plan will define the organizational principles of
the new Unmversity and the framework that will govem its operation, particularly with respect to
enrollment capacity (equivalent to current enrollment), autonomy and governance (to enhance
involvement of and relationship with the economic sectors), academic structure and organization,
admissions policies, and financing. Admissions decisions will be separated from scholarship
awards decisions, the latter being based on academic excellence and equity objectives. Terms of
Reference for the development of a strategy satisfactory to IDA have been agreed. The Master
Plan should be satisfactory to IDA and existing texts establishing the University will be revised in
accordance with the framework agreed upon with IDA. These will be conditions of second
tranche release.
82.   Measure 10: As a condition of second tranche release a number to be deternined and
agreed upon with IDA, of non-teaching and under-employed lower and upper secondary teachers
will be redeployed, following a procedure similar to that used for identifying teachers eligible for
redeployment at the primary level and based on the schools accommodation schedule and teachng
loads. Excess lower secondary teachers may be redeployed to the primary level, and upper
secondary teachers may be redeployed to lower secondary. On the basis of the technical work
undertaken on schools accommodation schedules and teaching loads, to be completed by
February 28, 1995, the number of teachers to be redeployed for October 1995 would be discussed
and agreed upon with IDA.
3.    Protecting quality inputs.
83.   Measure 11: To help improve teaching effectiveness and the quality of primary education
through increased teacher/supervisor interaction, the Govenmuent appointed, pror to
Negotiations, 70 additional pedagogical advisors to this level of education, and increased the
operating budget for school inspectors by 20% over 1994 levels. An additional 70 pedagogical
advisors will be recruited before October 1995. These pedagogical advisers, recruited among the
most experienced teachers, will provide close pedagogical support to the primary teachers.
Complementary training of the pedagogical advisers and provision of motorcycles are planned
under the ongoing education sector project (Cr. 2054-MLI). Appointment of 70 additional
pedagogical advisers before October 1995, will be condition for second tranche release. The
school inspectorate operating budget (transportation) wili be maintained in real terms in 1996 and
thereafter.



24
84.   Measure 12: To increase the supply and quality of instructional materials for all
education levels, budgetary line items for educational materials, based on per student expenditure
norms, will be introduced for each educational level (the matrix in Annex 4 provides proposed
expenditure norms). Actual expenditures on these budgetary items to September 1995, will be
provided to IDA prior to second tranche release. Special emphasis will be placed on increasing
spending on primary-level educational materials, which will triple to about US$5 per student. As
an additional quality and efficiency measure, classroom maintenance expenditure norms will be
used in resource allocation, such that classroom maintenance spending as a percentage of total
education spending will increase from 0.01% in 1993 to 0.75% in 1995, and to 1.5% in 1996. To
ensure that these structural changes in the education budget become nonnal features of budgetary
decision making, compliance with these budgetary measures was a condition for negotiations and
will be a condition for second tranche release.
4. Mobilizing non-public resources.
85.   Measure 13: To encourage the mobilization of private and community resources for
investment and recurrent cost financing of primary education, the Government has first issued
legal texts removing the constraints to the initiation and development of private and community
schools.  These texts set out conditions and procedures, establish deadlines for the
administration's response to private sector requests, and clarify the modalities for statetregion and
private co-financing of investments, access to land, school supervision, teachers' in-service
training and examination responsibilities. These texts cover all non public schools (mederss,
community schools, private secular schools, and those supported by NGOs). Second, the
Government has authorized and financed the construction of about 120 community/private
classrooms in 1994 and will finance another 150 classrooms in 1995 (using the funds targeted
under the ongoing Education Project). The draft model contract for leasing of publicly-funded
schools to private and community agents for the purpose of operating primary schools would be
disseminated in all seven regions plus Bamako.
B.   Features of the proposed credit.
86.   Credit Amount and Financing. The Borrower for the proposed Credit is the Republic
of Mali, and the Credit amount proposed is US$50 million. This amount is necessary to maintain
the momentum of reform in the education sector and to provide sufficient imports to permit a
resumption in economic growth following the devaluation of the CFAF. It is consistent with an
external financing plan worked out with the Government, the World Bank, and the IMF for 1994
and 1995, and complements the substantial assistance already provided by the World Bank, the
IMF, and other donors (para 19). The total budgetary impact of the proposed measures is
estimated at CFAF 1.2 billion in 1995, and CFAF 1.7 billion in 1996 (para. 75).
87.   Project Implementation. The Ministry of Finance will be the Government agency
responsible for coordinating the proposed program, while the ministries of Basic Education and
Secondary and Higher Education will be responsible for the implementation of the education
sector reforms. Both Ministries of Education are judged to have adequate capacity to implement
these reforms, and the Ministry of Finance is successfully managing the ongoing structr



25
adjustment credit. Bank staff would contnue to coordinate with IMF staff to ensure adequate
monitoring of key sectoral and macroeconomic policies and indicators. The Government will
arrange for an audit report by an auditor acceptable to the Bank to be provided within six months
after the end of each fiscal year ofthe Borrower.
88.   Project Monitoring. As mentioned above, the responsibility for implementation of the
project will rest with the Government. The Bank will monitor implementation of the agreements
and will integrate the lessons learned in the sector investment operation. This project will be
monitored very closely by a full time sector staff based in the Bamako office as well as by regular
supervision missions. Monitoring of the planned actions includes the following: (a) Budgetary
measures: review of draft budget and statement on education sector expenditures prepared
monthly by the treasury. Monthly monitoring of expenditures by Ministry and type of expenditure
is already being done under the macro program so data on education sector expenditures should
be available; (b) Provision of didactic material: a procurement program will be provided to IDA
for each of the fiscal years. An accounting system is being set up under the current project
(Cr. 2054-MUI) to monitor materials procurement, storage and distribution; (c) Recruitment of
vacataires; field staff will review lists and contracts of vacataires, (d) Redeployment will be
monitored through visits to a sample of schools to ensure that teachers affected have actually been
redeployed and are in the classrooms; (e) Double shift will be reviewed though statistics and
payment of indemnities as well as sampled visits to schools.
89.   Disbursement and Procurement. The Credit will be released in two tranches, one of
SDR 20.5 million (US$30 million) and one of SDR 13.8 nillion (US$20 million), subject to
satisfactory implementation of the reform program (see Annex 4 for the Policy Reform Matrix).
The second tranche would be disbursed approximately 12 months after the first.
90.   The Credit will be used to reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange costs of Mali's general
imports, excluding goods financed by other bilateral or multilateral agencies, and goods
specifically prohibited on a negative list. Both public and private sector imports will be eligible
for financing. Disbursements will be made against withdrawal applications with fully supporting
documentation except for eligible contracts valued at US$1.0 million equivalent or less, in which
case the Borrower will be permitted to submit withdrawal application on the basis of Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs). The supporting documentation for these SOEs will be retained by the
Borrower, and will be made available to Bank staff and to subsequent external auditors. The
nature and origin of the goods as well as the payment date will be indicated on the SOEs. The
Ministry of Finance and Commerce will be responsible for the preparation of withdrawal
applications. Expenditures for goods procured under invoices for US$5,000 equivalent or less
will not be eligible for financing out of credit proceeds. The minimum withdrawal application size
will be US$1.0 million equivalent. To enable the Government to meet urgent foreign exchange
needs, IDA will disburse for payments of eligible imports made not more than six months prior to
the date of the Credit Agreement (expected in early January 199S)up to US$20 million or 40% of
the Credit amount. This exception to the normal period for retroactive financing is proposed to
follow up on the Economic RecoveTy Credit, whose resources were fully disbursed on
June 7, 1994.



26
91.   Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of funds while ensuring
efficiency and accountability in the process. Simplified International competitive bidding (ICB)
will be required for eligible imports by public agencies and by the private sector exceeding US$1
million. Contracts above the US$1 million threshold will be subject to IDA post review.
Procurement by public agencies for items whose cost is below the US$1 milon threshold will
follow standard Government practices for found to be acceptable in the past. Eligible imports
below the threshold by private entities wil be procured in accordance with normal conm erci
practices, and wherever possible, quotations fiom eligible suppliers from at least two countries
would be sought. Single source purchasing not exceeding US$100,000 per purchase will be
permitted for proprietary equipment or where compatibility with existing equipment requires
standardization provided the aggregate of such procuremnent amount does not exceed US$2.0
million. This will be monitored by the Ministry of Finance. Procurement documents wil be
submitted together with the withdrawal application along with other documents for payment
purposes. Procurement documentation will be maintained by the Borrower for ex-post review by
the Bank for contracts below US$1,000,000. Procurement documentation will consist of' (i) a
brief description of procurement procedures; (u) an evaluation sunmary giving the number of bids
received; (iii) a comparative statement of prices received; (iv) dates of contract and payments;
(v) a copy of the contract; (vi) copies of invoices; (vii) proof of shipment; and (viii) any other
documentation required by the Association. A pre-shipment inspection agency is in place and
operating satisfactorily. All imports will be subject to pre-shipment inspection.
92.   Accounts and audit. The Ministry of Finance and Conmmerce will be responsible for
collecting the supporting documentation (copies of the invoices and contracts, evidence of
shipment and payment, or customs certificates), for preparing withdrawal applications and will
maintain records of all transactions under the proposed Credit in accordance with sound
accounting principles. An audit report, conforming to intemationally accepted standards and
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, will be submnitted within six months after the
end of each Government ffscal year. The audit report will include a separate opinion on the
disbursements made under the SOEs procedure. In addition to the above, an audit report,
completed by auditors according to procedures acceptable to IDA, would be submitted to IDA no
later than 3 months after the flill disbursement of the Credit, or six months after the end of the
fiscal year, whichever is earliest.
93.   The condition for First Tranche Release (effectiveness) is the implementation, for the
1994/95 school year, of double shift teaching in about 30%/O of first grade classrooms and about
15% of second grade classrooms (para. 77)
94.   As with all other adjustment operations, satisfictory performance on the macroeconomic
program will be a precondition for the second tranche release. The other conditions for Second
Tranche Release are:
i) In June 1995, application of a selection system for access to the 7th grade and to upper
secondary and higher education based on enrollment capacity and academic criteria
(paras 72 and 73);



27
ii) In the 1996 sector budget, compliance with all the budgetary measures outlined in paras.
74, 75, and 84;
iii) In July 1995, Ailu application of all scholarships policy measures to secondary and higher
education students (para. 74);
iv) For the 1995/96 school year, (a) expansion of double-shift teaching to at least 30%/o of
first-grade classrooms, about 30% of second-grade classrooms, and about 15% of third-
grade classrooms (par. 74); and (b) provision of a satisfactory action plan aimed at
significantl reducing the repetition rates at the primary level, including instructions to this
effect to schools, by October 1, 1995 (para. 77);
v) (a) The number of lower and upper secondary teachers to be redeployed would be
determlined on the basis of the study to be completed in February 28, 1995 and should be
satisfactory to IDA (para. 80); (b) on the basis of the agreed-upon terms of reference,
provision of a master plan satisfictory to IDA for the establishment of a University, and
revision of existing texts establishing the University in accordance with said Master Plan
(para 81);
vi) For the 1995196 school year, (a) redeployvment of at least 300 teachers from administrative
to primary education teaching positions (para. 79); and (b) hiring of 300 vacataires for
Primary Education (para 80), and appointment of 70 additional pedagogical advisors
(para. 83).
C.   Benefits and Risks.
1. Impact of the proposed operation.
95.   Sectoral impact. Strategically, the credit would create the conditions for: (i) achieving
agreement in the macrodialogue on the growth rate of teachers! recruitment for an accelerated
growth of primary education; and (ii) mobilization of donors for the investments required for
expansion of primary education as well as for improvement of quality and relevance at all levels.
96.   The credit would also have the following impact in the short term: (i) Increased access to
primary education. Expansion of double-shift teaching, redeployment of non-teaching teachers
to teaching positions, and hiring of temporary teachers to ensure full use of all available
classrooms would result in an additional 102,000 pupils (about 21% enrolment increase for public
schools - 88,000 pupils - and at least 46% increase for private schools-13,500 pupils);
(ii) Enhanced efficiency in the allocation and use of resources at all educational leves. The
primay education budget as a share of total education would increase from 38% in 1994 to 43%
in 1996; (iii) Decreased unit and output costs. The introduction of double-shift teaching will
reduce unit costs through an increased teacher/student ratio in the classroom applying double-shift
(from 1/567 to about 1/80-90).
7 Teahs currently in public schools over total enrollment ( 1992193)



28
97. In the medium term and long term, the credit will have the following impact: (i) expansion
of double-shifting alone (30%) over the six years of priimay education will result in a total of
about 80,250 additional students; (Hi) reductions in repetition and introduction of a selection
process for access to secondary and higher education will result in a reduced unit cost for
graduates; (iii) increased level of quality inputs at all levels (educational materials) combined with
an increase in teacher support will improve educational attainment; (iv) pursuit of redeployment to
reduce the sector administration staff to the normal 8% of total staff would result in a total
redeployment of about 1,700 teachers from administrative to teaching positions (about 95,000
students); (v) selective access to secondary and higher education and more efficient allocation and
use of resources would create the conditions for a rapid increase, during Step 2, of primary
education through the allocation to this level of education of most of the sector's incremental
budgetar resources; and (vi) the transparency introduced in the relationships between the state
and the private sector would help the mobilization of untapped resources in this sector.
98.   Overall impact. The proposed credit would reinforce, at the sector level, reforms which
are integral elements of Mali's overall Structural Adjustment Program. Increased primary
enrollment and literacy rates, and improved educational quality, would have positive effects on
labor productivity (particularly in agriculture), returns to physical capital investments, and income
generation. Indeed, the private rate of return to prnmary education in Mali was estimated at 28%
in 1988 (social rate of return: 29%), and this rate may be even higher following the devaluation
and the increase in agricultural producer prices; the accelerated development of primrny education
would also help remove one of the key obstacles to poverty alleviation: illiteracy.
2. Risks to the proposed operation.
99.   The main risk lies in the Government's ability to implement politically sensitive sector
reform measures, particularly those pertaining to secondary and higher education students
(control of scholarships and access to secondary and higher education) and teachers
(redeployment and expansion of double-shift teaching). A secondary risk relates to the weak
capacity of the two education ministries to monitor and institutionalize reforms. Regarding the
first risk, ministry officials have had ample opportunity, during extensive policy dialogue, to
internalize the need for reforms (ownership) and have started developing and implementing some
of the programs. In addition, regarding the sensitive issue of fellowships, the Government has,
since February 1994, been relatively successful in managing students' resistance to reforms and in
building consensus, particularly through its media campaigns aimed at informing the general
population about sector issues and constraints, the comparatively high level of student benefits,
and the objectives pursued as well as through the recently held regional consultations on Mali's
main issues, including those of the education sector. While some uncertainty remains with regard
to students' reactions, the start of the new school year has so fiar gone very smoothly. The
opposition of teachers has been mitigated by their active and up-stream representation in the
double-shift preparatory workshops (as of August 1993) and the personnel redeployment
commission (effective since January 1994), as well as by the economic incentive represented by
the overtime payment for double-shift teachers (equal to 25% of base salary). The teachers'
willingness to apply double-shift teaching is evidenced by the implementation of this approach in



29
15% of first grade classrooms in the 1993/94 school year, and the expanded use of this approach
during the 1994/95 school-year.
IO.  Concerning institutional capacity to implement, monitor, and institutionalize the proposed
measures, this risk is mitigated by the fact that the measures for the 1994-95 school year have
been prepared and for the most part implemented. For the pedagogical measures, double-shift
teaching has already been successfully introduced in the first grade of primary education. The
field application of some of the measures (action plan for repetition, selection) will be prepared
and carried out with the technical support of the Pedagogical Institute (operational notes,
information seminars and local training). Monitoring would be in close cooperation with IDA,
which will review and improve with the Government the instruments to this effect during
negotiations. Implementation of the measures will be supported through the ongoing Fourth
Education Project (the closing date would be postponed by one year beyond December 31, 1994)
and solidified through the second step of the strategy. The presence of a full-time education staff
in the Resident Mission during program execution would enhance Bank support and ensure close
monitoring of the policy measures. Finally, the close integration of the education and macro-
sector strategies would ensure a consistent and forceftl message in the Bank's dialogue with the
Malian Govermnent.
101. Environmental Impact. The impact of the operation on the environment would be
negligible, involving the construction of some 270 private and community classrooms (mainly in
non-urban areas). Increased maintenance spending should actually improve waste treatment and
disposal in school facilities. In accordance with IDA policies for adjustment operations, no
environmental rating has been assigned.



30
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION
102. I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
December 6, 1994
Attachments



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
MaLN: Rources and Espenditr
.~ ~ ~ ~~II _  .                           er
gnu of                                 _,,        saw.m         L,.,,
Indcwae                                  wRm       _     M7-      19104           1987.        Afim     L     m   _
Resources and 1EZpdItts
HUMAN RESOURCES
Poplaton (mt1992)                         thousands            ,905      7,8             2    546390   3,194,5S3      942.S47
Adendey do                                  mdo                0C9.        OS         1.00       095         0.67        066
Urbn                                      %ofp                 16.2       21.0        25.1        29.S       26.7        57.0
P     oulaon Vowrta                             %               2.0        2.4         2.9         I9                     1.4
Urban                                        **43                         4.9         5.5        5.1         3.4         4,
Labor Mm (1544)                           thousand            2,089      2598        3,130    224,025   1,478.954           -
Aiicu                                   V oflabrhib             87          86          .. .
andiu                                         *                  2           2                      .. _ 
Fenale                                                          17          17          16         37          33          34
Female per 100 males
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                     thu sq. km         1,240.19    1,240.19    1,240.19   24,274.03   38,401.06   40,69-737
Density                                 pop. per sq. lan        4.8        6.0         7.0        21.9       81.1        22.8
Agricltural land                        %of ltad am            26.1       263         263         527        S0.9
Change in  a.iauluzn land                sanual %              a.         0.1         0.0         0.1        0.0
Aptrfalatundweirrigation                     V.                 0.4        0.6         0.6         0.8        18.2
Fresnd woodland                         thou. sq. bn           74          71         69           .
Deforsaton (ft)                            nnOua                             -         0.9
SNCOME
Household income
Sham of top 20% ofhouseholds            % of income   _                                ..          ..         42 _
Share of boatom 40% of households                                    n _      _ *-                            19
Sharm of boto 20% of households              '                  _                      _           ..          8
EXCPENDITURE
Food                                      % of GOP               _        46.2                      ..
SUples                                                          ..       18.0          ..
M     s, n*l cheese, o k                                        ..       18.9 
Creal iports                          thou ml  tis              120        273         97       20,311     46,537      74.924
Food aid in ceas                                                107        266         36       4.303       9,008       4,0S4
Food pmducion per capia                   1987-100              96          89         91          90         123
Fadhlzr consumption                        kgfh                0.1        0.6         0.5         4.2       61.9
She of awicare in GOP                     %ofGDP               61.0       372         42.4        18.6       29.6
Hodasg                                    %ofGDP                 _         6.5          .. 
Averige household size               pes per bowehold            _           *-         -*
Urban
Fixed invesmh housing                     % of GDP                         3.9   _       .. 
Fad aodpower                              %ofGDP                  ..0                   _.0
E rycmunsutionpercapira                kgofoilequiv.           20          25         22         25t         335       1,882
Households with dect: city
urban                                 V ofhouseholds            _-                           .. 
RurAl 
Tranprtand communicate                      *ofGDP                .        8.2           . _        _
Fixed invesmeot transportequip                                             2.2
Total oad length                           thou.m                15         13          15 i
INVWESTIVT IN HUMAN CAPrAL
Health
Populaton per physician                    pesonS            42.700    2Y392        19,448          _           _           _
Populaiion per nurs                                           2.587      1,348       1,885                      _
Population per hospital bed               '                   1,400    _                         332        1,050         516
Oral rehydymation thra   (under-S)        % ofaes         *                  .         41          36          39
Educadon
Gross e.=rolmctm raio
Seconday                              %offschool-agpop.          7           7          7          18          41
Fanle                                                           3           4          5          14          35
Pupil-wcher rai: primry                pupilser a               41          34         47          39          37         26
Pupil-macher raio: secordary                  *                  19         12         16           _          19
PupilsrehingSmde4                        %ofcohort              69          72         73
Rapeater r-: primary                       aoftol enrll         23          30         27           _
Illiteracy                            %ofpop. (age S             ..         77    '   68           51          39
Female                               %offem.(AP lS5)            *-         85         76    ,,   62           52           _
Newspaper circulation                    per thou. pop.                I          I                14           .         100
Wona EMM latenadoonal =cnomlOC$ SrUutVq Apnil 19s4



ANNEX 1
Pagje2 of 2
MaU Priority Paonery ladicatera
Lawswhy&fMla   egeihrag,ap                           g
Priority Poveircy rndicators
I'OVERTY
Upper pvn litw                           l   aur.
Heaeuaut indofpp                                                         ..                               19
Low  pove1W li                          toed .                 .                                .
ke.adce ldi %dof Vpop.                                      --         ..          ..         .           ..
GNMper capi                                USS               120        l60        310        520         390
SNORT TERM INCOME NDICATORS
UIsiled ura _wa                          l      .              ..        ..          ..
Unskilled trd Maus
Rural    of   e           .                                    ..        ..          ..
Conumrup icesdx                          198710                ..         ..         _..
Lowr ilc                                                                 .. .
i                              *                  i          ..         .. ~       ~ ..        .. ..
Urban
SOCIAL-1DICATORS
Public epndlue an bask socil srvices    %ofGDP                 ..         ..         ..
GrMs e sllm n ra
Pimay                                % sdco  agSpop.          24         23         25          66        103
mate                                       ^                 32         30         32          79        113
FMaie                                      *                 17         II         19          62         96
Momlity
ln    limmonala                     p" diclie 11Whd        23.0       180.0      130.0       99.0       73.0        4.0
Udte 5 mot                                                                       201.1      169.0      1"0          59.0
Measles                               %agepoup                ..       11.0       40.0      -54.0       72..
8Ito       35.0       54.6       80.6
chil inuamwou (Udr5-                                           -           '        5.1       28.4       3t3
Life expc~q
TOW                                         3s              : 9         44         48          $2         62         68
Femlcadvanlp                               *                 4.0        0.2        3.5        3.4        2.4         6.4
Toedl Mft                             bbitra                  6.         6.7        7.1        6.1         3A         3.1
Mau mor-aity rt                     per 100,000 ite b_*s       _                  2325          .. _
Stpplemeta   Pwoety Indicatons
9xpadi_s"osol          w             %Gf w 'Iap.                               .                                _ 3.0
Socan serity     g                   %eM. _    *I_      3      .          ..         ..
Acces tosafh *to al                      %ofop -                        17.0       49.0       41.1       6t
U                                         *               29.0       46.0       100.0       77.8       78.9
Rwl                                       S                  _       10.0       36.0       27.3        603
Ace  o ealth cam                                                        2 ..  0.0    _.
Population growth rate               GNP per capta   oWh rate                   Development diamond
* annal verge, Pam*                      (menal puq    -
.4-                                      T51   1                                11                              _
it                                 9                    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aii
G    i---          -           -  -                           -                            9i
-2 -                                    -10utom Lie wo
t970.75    19804s    19817-92             1910.7$   1910.85    198792
~Mali- Ml
-Low-income                                                                             Lcw4nomw



AM=E 2
Paie 1 of 3
MAUI -KJq EAOk XadIatN
I-     low     l t     1t2    *63     MS4   ISM   It        imi   tIs    t"
NAnONAL ACCOUHN (as M%P  Caui ?MkaO PAW)                        (PuwuubF)
Gro  d       _a pm*Ad                  100.0% 100.0%  100.0%  100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%  flO.0%   100.0%  100.0% 100.0%
Nag 6ah,4  W.5%   5.7%    6.2%    5.6%    .7%   7.0%   7A%   7.4%                                    7.5%    7.5%   7.6%
4IsICU1bUW                            45.2%  45.1%   43A%   44%  42.4%  40.0%  392%  39.0%    33.3%   33.5%  382%
1n4my                                   9.2%   9.3%   10.7%   103%  11.0%  123%  12.7%  13.0%    13.2%   13.%  13.7%
Savisu                                40.1%  39.5%   39.7%   39.2%  40.9%  40.7        %   406%  40.6%   40  404%
Cima;_                                  '95.0%  943%   936%   952%  943%  96.1%  91.3%  39.1%    90.0%   90.0%  90.0%
Coven In  i_                            213%  22.4%   23.1%   21.9%  21.9%  269%  269%  26.9%    26.9%   26.9%  26.9%
pz_vas mt                              11.7%  12.1%   10.3%   12.%  12.6%  13.0%  13.%  14.0%    14.0%   14.0%  14.0%
G       __vmmZiawft                     9.%  103%   123%    9.7%   93%   133%  134%  12.9%    129%   12.9%  12.9%
Esp  GMS la                             163%  16.9%   17.%   14.7%  1i.7%  232%  24.1%  24.3%    24.7%   249%  25.1%
npatu GMS/a                             32.6%  33.7%   34.5%   32.0%  31.0%  44.9%  413%  40.3%    39.4%   3&5%  37.7%
4.f
Go      da  _sa  p                       S.0%   5.7%    6.44    4.8%   5.7%   39%   8.2%  10.9%    10.0%   10.0%  10.0%
Gr5n taAmalawp                           6.3%   7.7%    9.1%    7.1%   3l1%   6.5%  11.3%  143%    133%   14.0%  13.3%
Meamd ite
Gran ; ome o     n pvdoa (=WM          2049.5 2477.0  2383.2  2735.0 2661.7 1793.1 2048.6 2191.2  2360.6  2541.8 2M7
USS scu tpness)
Gsoss a   l prodm per rau              269A   24   267.2   301.4  294.7  24U   2238  215.9   232.1  244.7  257.5
(US AMatmAkd)
R1 aMOa sm            . cn    1987 }
Growdom.dcprdatatmkdatpi               11.3%   03%   .24%    7.%   .03%   22%   5.4%   4.1%         5.1%    5.1%   5.1%
GrowD       nm.kom                     11.4%   1.0%   -2.9     5.1%  .0.3%   2.0%   53%   4.1%      5.1%    5.1%   5.1%
Rol anallwr VW  "nis  h m n     M Akw &M 1917 mioni
Grow drmir produat at muz  pi=          &9%  -21%   .5.1%    43%   -2.9%  -1.0%   23%   2.4%        2.5%    2.5%   2.5%
T73 _     bpdam                         8.0%  .64%   -.72%   -1.9%   23%   *0.8%   2.7%   2.4%      2.4%    2.5%   23S%
IvaYte a.    _qdi                       9.1%  -7.S%   .6l%   -24%   2.3%  .0.8%   2.7%   2.4%       2.6%    2.5%   2.5%
Eipwo   (Gff  Is                        334.5  419.4  4233   4103  417.0  416.5  493.7  53639  $5.6  636.2  691.2
Mx£moAid  fb.                          2693  337.9   3553    3359  341.1  334.5  400.0  435.0   473.0  511.9  553.9
Jmparw(GN)  /a                          6633  S34.7    21.7   391.2  124.2  305.2  34639  83.2   933.2   "16 1035.0
Mcb_aos Uo&.                           496.2  6173   633.    691.0  635.2  617.1  662.7  697    747.9  7973  849.7
Reomm  bakain                          .333.9  .415A4  -393A4  480.9  407.1  -38.6 -3532 -346.4   -347.6  -346.4 .343.8
Netama,*It *am&"                        269.9  311.1   332.    400.3  31S3   353.7  283.1  2934    29S.2  319.7  3242
(inaimuiag oSsi 8alt    )
Curut *mot bdaam                        -2953  -3653  .333.6  416.7  d3422  3413 .289 -M.5   .26.9   44.0  .237.6
(CX8diq offAi uunam)
Curut.t*bu1m                            -90.0  .139.6   .40.8  .1103  -114.3  49.1   89.2  -73A    -"8A   42.5  -362
CmdndiagaffiW u=sbn
Net pdvukb fu, lo,        v              15.0   6.6      3.5    -7.6    0.0   26.3   1I8   13.0    13.1   13.1  18.1
MLt hen (M)                             136.4   76.0    638      5.3  -18.0   89.1   24.7   30.0    67.0   58.2  58.2
Oficial                                121.3   32.6    652      12.3  -18.0   62.4    64   12.5    48.9   40.1  40.1
Pivet                                   15.0   -6.6     33       7.67   0.0   26.7   18.1   13.0    18.1   13.   13.
Odur 1(net,   h amandsmm_           )   60.5  1219   106.0   120.1  155.7   212  130.3   732          12.9   20.5  20.5
Oahar inesa  lb                        -121.9  -51.8  -137       -7.6  -23,0 - .7.7  44.3  -5.       .29.6  -54.2  -60.6



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
MdAU - tay Ecm=k [u&ami
19    Iso       1*1    it,      1993   1994   1s    19W        I5"?    I"0   Is"
Rua_,bm w(e% of GPegt CU. P4IZ  -163%  -16.8%   *1&7%  J173%  -153%  -21.7%  -17.2%  -15.8%   -14,7%  -13.6%  -12.6%
Cunsmt a-gm' bgiM                        -14.4%  -14.8%  -14.0%  -15.0%  .1239%  -19.0% .14.1%  -12.4%   -11.4%   -9.6%   9.7%
(Omludhg fflwwuwd)
Rajl uaual rwth M  (vlat l
1            _r-dn  com   ("h)           14.1%    4.5%   11.9%     L6%   7.8%   43%   11.3%   8.6%        8.0%    8.0%   3.0%
M.     ia,    (I       )                  6.0%    8.%   -1%       23%   -3.3%   0.9%   22%   3.%          1.6%    1.6%   1.6%
Public e fis= (M % of GDP uQC., Mk P.1
_wU  ftvM                                16.8%   17.2%   16.3%    13.7%  13.8%  13.2%  14.0%  15.1%    1S.1%   15.0%  15.0%
CWm.t apmmdwo                            104%    9.9%   12.2%    11.7%  11.7%  13.1%   11.7%  11.01       9.9%    9.S%   92 %
Carrmts emsaaaw&(W)or dd*-) o     t       6.4%    7.4%    4.1%    2.0%   21%    0.1%   2.3%   4.1%    35.%    5.5%    .8%
C*W lapAdbWAr                            11.7%   10.3%   13.1%it 10.3%   9.7%   13.9%  13.4%  12.9%.   12.4%   12.0%  11.7%
O>enl,smld.idt  c- -9.9%   45%S  -12.3%   -11.2%  .9.6%0  15.1%  -12.3%  -10.1%                          48.5%   -7.8%  -7.0%
Fordwbadg d/             .               13.6%   12.1%   14.4%    12.5%   9.8%   18.3%  IS.4%   10.6%     8.7%    8.2%   7.7%
D    _mmcbuedg _ 1                       -3.7%   -3.6%   -2.1%    -1.3%  -0.2%   -3.7%  -3.1%  -0.5%    -02%   -0A%   -0.7%
?JGDP (at awst mawkat prim)              21.7%  20.0%   22.6%   213%  22.6%  22A%  24.6%  26.2%    28.0%   29.9%  31.9%
Grow& ofM i (%)                           1.0%  -49%   12.6%    3.4%   8.4%  36.9%  24.9%  15.0%    15.0%   15.0%  15.0%
Par                        e     /      241.5%    0.0%  .469.3%  1157.8%  16.0%   138% 3682%  168.8%   116.7%  116.7% 116.7%
po& %)
M     e_mad   _aprt prim  r6a             100.0   95.6    94.7    75A    763   152.6  171.1  178.9    187.2   195.8  204.9
Mra        bare puim Wu                   100.0   92.6    963    105.6  1093   232.4  247.2  255.6    264.2   273.1  2823
M&fasdims I    oead. hindu                100.0  1033     984      71.5   69.8   65.7   69.2   70.0       709    71.7   72.6
Reua1d CO  v.eadaaraf                     100.0   99.7    963      93.9   94.5    NA      NA      NA       NA      NA    NA
Reu1htuot rat bat)                       10.0%   10.0%    9.0%    17.0%   9.0%     NA    NA    NA          XA      NA    NA
C_a~r prim hd. (% we"  raf)               0.0%    1.8%    1.8%   -7.1%  -1.0%  40.4%   8.2%   3.8%        3.8%    3.8%   3.8%
GDV  ddar(%  ,wC raf)                    4.9%    29%    2.1%       1.9%   2.6%  35.1%   8.1%   3.5%       2.5%    2.5%   2.5%
^GNFS - -goods &a a8cawr miamo'
hb  cudaus.f       Jwaouro
/c C;oit  bss.=iWdigwuf
/d lcudespints. dwna b n m'maeaa  pa _uma an   =d e6saa1 pp W       a ias
/a Iclud canga in na doemds payosu amm



il   -[ii                           a   S l     
ii                         %'. i      i   iZ
I~~~~~~~~~~~~ I



Comparative Educational Indicators
Age 15+      Age 15+    Gross        First                                    Age 25+
Adult        Female      Primary     Grade             Primay   Pupil:        Mean        Human
Leacy        Literacy    Erollment  Intake             Repetition Teacher     Years of    Deveopment
Country                 te (%)      ate CS)    Rate (%)    Rate (%o          Rate R%)  Ratio        Schooling    Ind-x
Mali                  18           16          30          23                25            46       0.3          168
Chad                  30           18          43          54                24            67       0.2          165
Ivory Coast           54           40          70          61                28            36       1.9         136
Senegal               38           25          56          52                 16           58       0.8          150
Ethiopia                           -           35           59               10            36       1.1          151
Rwanda                so           37          63          94                 12           57       1.1          149
Central African Rep.    38         25          75          62                29            90       1.1          156
Ghana                 60           51          75          -                  '4           29       3.5          131
Malawi                             31          62           -                 18           64       1.7          153
Uganda      .         48           35          65           84               14            35       1.1         146
French speaking countries-         -           67          -                 23                     -           -
English speaking countries -       -           86          ,                  10
Sub-Saharan Afiica    47           32          70          67                             39        1.6         -
Sources: Social Indicators of Development, 1993 (World Bank); Human Development Report, 1993 (UNDP); UNESCO Statistical Yearbook,
1993
ali
0



ANNEX 4  MALt - EDUCATION SECTORAl)JUSMfF.NTLOAN    -    POLICY MTRIX
Policy Issue      Measure        Key Actions to be      Key Actis to be Taken        Key Actions to be Takeo        Key Actions to be Takun    Target by the End of
Taken Prior to            Prior to Board           Prior to First Tranche        Prior to Second Tranche      Adjustment Period
Negotiations             Presentation                    Release                        Reke-s     -
I Macro                                                                                                             Satisfactosy p     4om n the
ecnoi                                                                                                               iicrcnmcprovramas
D. Governent    Adjutment    IDA provided with draft  IDA provided with a                                                                         Appropriate educational
sector policy    policies       Govemnent 1,ette of     "atisAoryGovernme                                                                         strocture with demier
Education Dewlomn       Ltter of Education                                                                       focus on primry
policy.                 Development Policy.                                                                      educatio. permitting
pmiistiiveimproeet
and eqnsion ofproxy
education with coatol of
owent fow to pos.
prmyeducaiona
levels. in accordanc
with rewcuren financion
sad enrollment capacity
and kbor market
M. Improve       Intrducmtio o issuance: of rgulatoy                                                                in June I99S, appication of
alloctio of      admissions     tex satisfacory to IDA                                                              system for acces to the 7th
resoriace        policy at post-  establishing aademic                                                              Slade (2n d ere ofBasic
primay levels  critria and eWnrolent                                                              Education) and to swer
Caact yas the basis for                                                            scdaw yand higher duction.
student access to upper
educatiori__                                                                                                               _
Fellowship     Appliation of fellowship                                                           Application ofthe measures set   ReductionAf fellowship
policy         awandaited,                                                                        fort in the Decree No 94/31-    expenditure will permit
satisfactosy tolMA, for                                                            PRM ofOctobw 25. 1994         an increas in spending
secondary and higher                                                               reardig scbolarships in       for didactic moatiash
education entrants.                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~secondaryanalhighereducation   (according to gOe sat
tWa



ANNEX 4: MALI- EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSMENT LOAN - - POU.'Y AMTRIX
rPolicy issue       Measure        Kcy Actions to be    Key Actions to be Taken       Key Actions to be Taken      Key Actions to be Taken      Target by the End of
Taken Prior to           Prior to Board          Prior to First Tranche       Prior to Second Trsnche      Adjustment Period
.        _             ~~~~~~~~Negotiations      Preseoatbtin                  Rclcase                      iReleawe-                   
Budgety        Retcuing of the                                                                                              improved eticiency and
policy         education budget to                                                                                          effeivene of public
create a seprate                                                                                             education expenditures
budgetary chapt for
ptimary education.
Compliance with all                                                             Compliance with all budgey   Cyde I expendites as
budgetary neases                                                                tneres                       a perentag of total
(Education's budget for                                                         (Education's budget for 1996  public education
1995 will provide for                                                           will provide fr.             expenditureswold
- lOo0 of the salary                                                            - 100% of the salay          increase fiom 389% in
supplent to teaches                                                             supplement to teachrs working   199 to 411% in 1995,
woring double shifts;                                                           double shifts                and to 43  irn 1996.
- relocation of teachers,                                                       - relocation ofteachers
estimated at USS225 per                                                         esimad at USS225 per         Maintenance spendng as
teacher;                                                                        teade,                       a share ottotal education
- hiring of 300                                                                 - hiring of 30 vacataires;    spending at least 1.5%,
vacalairet                                                                       - CFAF 300 Miillion for     ensuring adequate
- CFAF ISO million for                                                         classroom maintenancentenance of school
classroom maintenance,                                                           - Maintenance of the levl in    inhastruet
- an increase of 20%A in                                                       real tens ofthe operating
the operating budget for                                                        budget for inspectorates;
inspectoates;                                                                   - fellowships budget ceiling of
- fellowships budget                                                            CFAF 3.9 billion)
ceiling of CFAF 3.9
biUiont and
- Maintenance budget of
CFAF 150 aillion).                                                               '    ._.
IV.  _reased     Double_ift                                                       In the 1994/95 school year,   In the 1995/96 school yea,    Increase in pimay
efficiency in the   teaching policy                                                expansion of double-shift     maintainafc of t  peena      enrollmefabout
us of resoes                                                                       teaching to cover at last 30%o of  of doublehft in st grede,  27,000 pupils
all fist grade classoms and   expansion ofdeub b-
about IS%ofallsecontdade    te           tto about 300o of al
clasooms                      second grade Classrooms and
about 15 %ofal ltbW gade
_ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ classroom s.  _
2



ANNEX 4: MALI -EDUCATIONSECTORA)JUSTMENTLOAN -  POLICYMRIX
Policy Issue      Measure        Key Actions to be      Ke Actions to be Taken       Key Actions to be Taken       Key Actions to be Taken    Target by the End of
Taken Prir to             Prio to Bofrd            Prior to First Trancbe       Prio to Second Tr4ache        Adjustrmet Period
Negotiations             Prc#otation                     Rltekase                      Rekas
Repetition             P.vision to ODA ofa                                                                                     bmpoved sudent flows
Policy                                                                                            s dtisf     action plan aimed at  lBg to mom schol
reducing rpet  rates to      ples in addition to
about 15% at primay levd;     reducd  dpout ate
relt   uddines to schods to   Full npact Moiong
be iso in Ochober 1995.         u)dbe uderthe
education prvact throug
continuousintewntoln
of inspetors aSW
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                       pedagonical ~~~ ~~~~~advisers
Redeployment   Red aoymnt of 350                                                                  Redeploymeat, for tde 199S196   Ibrough rdowieti of
Policy         teachers frow                                                                     swhool yer. of at east 300     piwmy teaches
administrative to                                                                 tachers frm administive to   expanded prmary
teaching poshiors                                                     steh   positions.                         anoiniet of  lot
32,500 st0d4 ns
Redeploynet, orschoo year
1995-96, of_ug-eachino and
under4mployed lor and
upper seconday teas to
lkve  Ths wad be
undertaelmonthehbasis ofa
- ofdtheca*pityofthe
relevant sc, to be
compled by Febday 2g,
_ ____             _ ____   _______   ________   ____.____                                                          1995.
Recmitmieat     Hiring of 300                                                                     Hiring of 300 additional      FMldassom  tilivation
policy          additional wrstavSi for                                                            aeas for pfimy               and ruimot   a
p       shbools                                                                   aduiraion                     onrct basis of
additional teadge at the
local klvl, pattin an
incras in prmaty
eauNrolseno(at lows
. .- , . . 30,O
3



ANNEX.: AL4U - EDUCArIONSECTORADJU.SMENTLOAN  -- POICYAMAX
Policy Issue      Measure        Key Actions to be     Key Actions to be Taken      Key Actions to be Taken        Key Actios to be Taken    Target by the End of
Taken Prior to           Prior to Board            Prior to First Trancbe       Prior to Second Tranche       Adjusmt Period
Negotiations             Presentation                    Rclcase                       Rekase
Pedagoical      Recritment of 70                                                                  Recritment of 70 addtonal     Imrved
SuppOat         pedagogical advisers for                                                          pedagog    advisers           methodsand
nmy schools                                                                                                     inusa qualiS
kadig to  ipved
Inrase in Is9s                                                                                                 achievanet and ruedz
operating budget fir                                                                                            tepedtitio   drad-
schools inspecorates by                                                                                        inet
_.___________                    20% over 1994.                                                                               .
Higher          Provision oftcnus of                                                              Provision of a Mast Plan      Restcuation of hiher
Education       rerece satisactory to                                                             satisfacoay to I)A for        education would avoid
IDA for the                                                                      establisting of a Unisvesy and     cssy duplitio
development of a maste                                                            apprs  of easting   of aadic and
plan for the                                                                     team. admi ve sntzu e
re*wuring of high                                                                                               a this level.
_ __  _ __       ecaion.        __duio.
V. Quality       Educational      Establisument of                                                                  Contiuo  of didacic           Availabilily ofteaching
mateinals policy  budgetary lines for                                                             materis policy and standards.   materials for studns at
educational materials at                                                                                        all levels of hie
each educatimol ievi;                                                                                           educao s)t
increase didactic                                                                                               treby nprova
materials buIgets fo                                                                                            edcatioa quality.
pnmary, lower
secondary, upp                                                                                                  Sepqaratof nofa
seoday ,Caw                                                                                                     eucMtiM fro
and highr education                                                                                             ea teri
using the folowinB                                                                                              budget allocatios, and
minimun per studet                                                                                              ciarwmanianog
standads (in real CPAF                                                                                          m      x for
1994 terms)                                                                                                     educationa matrials
respectively. CFAF                                                                                              V"*J
2,500, 5,000.21,000.
35,000, and 50,000.    I                                                                     _                           . _  . ,
4



ANVNEX4.: t4LI -EDUCATilONSE(TrOR,ADJUS7AfENEkTLO                 -    OViUCYMATWI
Policy Issue      Measure        Key Actions to be    Key Actions to be Taken       Key Actions to be Taken       Key Actions to be Taken    Targd by the End of
Taken Prior to           Prior to Board           Prior to First Tranche       Prior to Second Tranche      Adjustmat Period
Negotiations             Presentation                   Release                       Release
VI. Fostering the  Developinaut of  ssuance of texts                                                              Audhoization and rnancing of   Inresd  mazy
development of    private schools  satisfactory to IDA                                                            constAion of at last ISO      enrolmeat of at leas
pnivate education                providing incetives to                                                           community or private elassrooms  13.500 studens due to
private and conmunity                                                           in 199S.                        iu       of270
.hoolsdevelopmet. 
c wsaoms with no,or
Authorization and                                                                                             etan    limit
fiacing of thc                                                t                                                     On publie
csruction of at kwst                                                                                          ftct nt   d
120 conmuityor                                                                                               obri
pivate classmomus in
1994, and publicizing of
contacts p  tins the
kai k of publicly
canstnuced schoos for
the pipose of operating
.~~~~~~~~~us
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   p r i i n a y   s c h o l s.   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



ANNEX 5
Page I of I
Calculation of Potential Enrollment Increase
Due to Implementation of Proposed Policy Reforms
EnroNlment
Plicy Inrease
A.   Primary education (public)
1.    Redeploy 650 non-teaching teachers to classrooms               32,500
@ 50 students per class
2.    Double Shift Expansion
1600 Grade I classrooms; 30% double-shift = 480 classrooms
or 320 new classes because of double-shift in grade 1.
1585 Grade 2 classrooms; 30% double-shift -475 classrooms
or 317 new classes because of double-shift in grade 2.
1490 Grade 3 classrooms; 15% double-shift = 224 classrooms
or 1 12 new classes because of double-shift in grade 3.
Total: 590 new classes because of double-shifting
@ 45 students per class =                                      26,550
3.    Hire 600 additional teachers @ 50 students per class           30,000
Total                           88,050
B.    Primary education (private)
Construct 270 private primnay classrooms @ 50 students =       13,500
Total                          102,550
C.   Enrollment (I992/93)
Prnmary public                                                409,421
Primary private                                                28,881
D.   Increase in enrollment due to reforms
Primary (private)                                                21%
Primary (private)                                                46%



AFNEX 6
Page 1 of 8
MINIS T*J* DE L'Z)UVCA30M BR PASP        RKPlIRIJQRl7t nti UAiJ
-......-...                UNPEUP4E ' UNW mmAVE P01
MINISTERE DES £NSIGNRMESN
SECONDAR&, SVP&EUEVR ST Aff
L  JRECHERCUE SClENTIPIQIVE
il a ° 6 9                        B°UE &tghDE
N° * '  ^  rMEB.NESSRS
12A MMNMSTROI LI'DCAT27ON D  ASX
LB MINISTREW DKS ENSEIGNJAEM&NS
SECONA4 IL SUPEUR ErD IA
R8HUBRCNRscIRNTPXIuE
A Mnsle -r Lewis PRESTON
PrisW*nt de la Banque Mondale
WASJHWGTON DC 2043
TA rTS-UNS DAMERIQUC
. QI&  Law.   do P*UWque sEcave
Monsieur k Prisident,
a prrisente kenre da politiqUO iducave a trait aUX modtficdion an
* profondeur envisagdes par k Gouvemement dans l'pproche ct la misc en
oeuvre de ses objectifs ddc4tafs. Ces profondes modflcations sont d'aza
plus nlcessaires que k secteur de. lEducation se touve confrontd a de
siricux probhme:s et a des ddfis inormes a relewr. En fait le niveau
eXtr*mement bas'da taux de scolarisaion et la dlgradaton de la qudait de
'en.icigncment apparaimsent contwws dua dJi.Gukds qut hypoda*qquens Ie
diveloppement Economique et socida du Mali a long terne: it est Ewabli quwrun
taux de scolarisation minimum de 50 % est nicessaire pour qu'un pays
pritende a un diveloppemant intEgral durable, ca igard au fait que
t'enseignemem prma.re reprntsea un facteur diterminant pour atteindre
des objecifs de divloppementfondamentaux dans les domaines tels que la
santi et la nutrition de la population, la producivitJ agricolea la rentabl*it
des investssements, la parficipdon de la population a la vie politique...



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 8
-32
Ansu, nous antreprenons an changement radical de notre systme
£duct$, qui se fera  travers la No velle Ecole Fodamntaka (NEF). U
mise en oeuvre de cene Nouwel Ecob Fondamental permnam de ritablir
l'quibre de note sys:me iducat#.p Los dtapes de cette mise en oeuvre
nicessiteront une riallocation et wr  udlisadon plus gfficikcs de nos
reasurces propres Oinand&ress humaines. matrielees) tetls qu'amorcEes
dijA dans Ic cadre du Programme d'Ajustement du secteur de llducation
ainsi que des ressources   onneUes de l'extriaur. C'est seulement a
trvers une telk mobilisaion des ressources que nous pourrons faire face
aux probames et contraintes acauls dans Ic sectewr, au nombre desquels on
peCt citer:
a.-  un taux d'alphab4stion de 23 % et  usx de scolarisadon prvraure
de 32 % (public 30,3 %. privJ 2,1 %)1 avec de grandes d!sparits entre lts
sexes. ks iIons at les miletx ubans et rura L cause primordialk de
ct sous-ddvetoppemanet de lenseignemnt primare riside dans lraJl;pcaci*
de Iallocadion et de l' asn des resources. qsd font que l'offre
d'dducaon ast bien en dep de la demanda;
b.- une structure du syst&me diducation, qui consid&re licole primaire
comme seulement une icok propadeorques, alrt qu'ele aurait du itre A la
fio autononwe epropddctqw.
c.-  une rEparttion des crEdits budgEtaires, qui ne dent pas sufisamment
compte de l'objectif prioritaire que constitue le developpement de
l'enseignement primair et qui dYvrait pluat roduire kes dipenses relatives
aux bourses, pour les affecter au matEriel didactique, aux enseignants
dcharss de courseta entreden des classes;
d-   un cadre lEgal peu propica au diveloppament de l'anseignement pravi
et communaire, et ks probl&mes du ftnancement des infrastructures;
e.- Its indicateurs defficaclet interne de l'enseignenent primare parnu
eks plus faibles sur le continent africaun. Moins d'un enfant sur six qui
frEquentent l'tcoke primaire parvient au termc de ce cycle, en raison du taux
exr*mement Jievi de redoublement (25 %) et d'abandon (10 %);
f; -un systame denseignewnt supirieur qui n "a pas su s adapter aax
basoins nouveaux du pays et s!accorde trIs mal aujourdhwi avec la demande
du Marc" du travail, taw sur c plan quaniwadf que sur k plan qualitatif Le



ANMEX 6
Page 3 of 8
-3-
nombre des dipl6mis de lwensegmenmsup iciur dipasse de loin la cpatb
actuelle d'absorption du marchi du travail et le type defiormation offert par
les Auablssments d'enseignemea supirieur est largement inadapti.
En fait ks autoritis de la 3cme Ripublaque sont risolues a dipassr
toutes ks distorsions et dffxulis que noiw avions identflues ensemble dans
k systame dducat#fmalien. Pour ce faire, nous avons ilabord une stratigie
du diveloppement du secteur dAcrite ci-apr*s.
Stratizl du Diveloppment du SaCtewr de I'EducaOn
Le Gouvemment compte sure Une approche en deux itapes en vue
du diveloppement du secteur de        Ladcatlon  a prenmre itape cor a
Jiiminer des distorsions et ineficaci dam luallocation des ressources
consacries a ce secteur, de manrre a crier ks conditions requises et a
d4finir des modes d'allocatio des ressources et un cadre budgiaire
appropriis pour les investhsemeats fwturs. La seconde Itape consit' a
itaborer un programme densemble pour le dfveloppement de
l1enseignement primaire et I'amilloration de la qualiti de lenseignement a
tous les niveaux Dans ce sens, wac rflezion profonde et Etendue est en train
de'se faire qui vise l'tablissemawt de a Nouvelle &ole Fondamentak et la
restructuration de lenseignerent supincur.
La Nouvelle Ecole Fondamentale a pour objectif d'organiser
e5icacement pour to"s les pubics. d'dge scolarisable ou I'ayant dEpassi, la
dffusion de connaissances et de savoir faire ciblis et pertinents pour crier
les conditions dune Evolution culturelle personnelle et collective et
rontribuer & la dynamique iconomiqa enfomrnaa des acteurs appropriEs A
chaque itape de notre diveloppement toujours en rifErence a"x rialitis
ricentes dtu pays.
Cet objectif permettra entre autres durifier l'Education de Base, de
diversifier les modalitis de sorti adapties aux besoins du d'veloppavnmen
dEmographique et iconomique, d'amiuiorer la qualti de l'iducation en
riduisant la diperdiion scolaire.
Nious y parvkndrons par la mdse en oeuvre des mesures suivantes:



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 8
.4.
Sure .: Notre systime iducatf actuel se caractirise essentiellement
d'une part par 1'absenc de con,8k pour le passage d'un cycle A l'autre,
datre part par tn disiqulbra dans l'qasaton des ressourcesfinancdares
dZiem du cycledo I'FenseienemenrfondamenrL
Pour y remAdIer, k Gouvernement du Mal  conform ment aux
recommandantions issues des Copncenaons Rigionales et de la Synth&se
Nationalk de ces concenations, et dans k cadre de la Nouvelk Ecok
Fondomantak (NEF) det Japramlre dae repose excltsivement sur k
premier cycle de lenseignewent fondamentat meatra en placo une
Commission Nationale de Refondation du Systame Educauf (CNRSE), qui
fera des propositions dtordre structural at insti utionneL Le risultat de ses
travaux devra conWfrer de jure au premier cycle de I'nseignement
fondaantal ka sktut d'un niveata dtensaigneanet attonome d4s la rentrie
1995-1996. Dores et dfj&, k budget 1995 a iti restrcturf pour permettre
wne derntfication claire des chapisras budgiaires affectis au cycle I
(Primaira) et au cyclk  d lde1'aigpmentfondamntaL
L   ranuasien ena la Uhw  annie cct l 7me de l'anseignaement
fiondamema fera 1objet, ds Is rla We de 1995-96. d'un systime d'accis
baeL sur kas performances scolaires et ks places dispomdbles. Dans le mime
ordre d'ie, las conditions dlacc, tam au secondaire quau slpdrieur ont
-lu ftxies par arrhi. Leur mise en application dibutera a la rentrie 1995*
1996. Ces conditions mettent l'accent sur lo performance scolaire et
raspecent a capaciu d'accudi des udtbsmens.
Mewti 2: L'efficaciti dans Valoation des ressources humaines a linstar
de cefiesfinancRires slavire brw ane nircssi indissabkl dans k contexte
de noire systmem AducaWsisout dans lks zons rwaks o* si dEficit notoirc
cet consti pendat qua ks zones urbaines se cotrisentpar une plEore
d'enseignants sous stilUis. Ains4 las pouvoirs publics ont riaffecdt pour la
ranfrie 1994-1995, 350 anseignants dichargis de cours, reterus salon des
critres itablis par la Cmission de ,diploiement mse en place a cat effet,
at 300 autres k seront a la rentre scolaire 1995-96.
Cetie opration Se renouvikra tant que de besoin jusqu'A lobtention
difinitve du risultat qul est ammiatioan de lifflcacitJ da  l'alns aaon et.
I'afisbadon des ressources humines. Cate mesure relative aux enseignants
dY lEnseignement Fox&na taL concernera aussi ceux du secondaire, selon
une procEdure similaire i celka utilisie posr las mattres de 1enseignament
fondamensL



*'ANEX 6
Page 5 of 8
Wzart...t: Compw-tenu des dfsUwrtons conira Wes stmulramenm dans
l'utilisation des ressources humlies et des inastrucres, nous convenons
que la doubk vacation const*ue auourd7W la riponse la plus adaptie a la
question. Auw, sonums-nous engages, tds la rentrie 1994-1995, a taendre
ta double vacain a un minmum de 30 % des classes depremlre et a 15 %
des classes de seconde ct e poursuivre loption. towts choses restnt .gales
par aileurs, aux autres annies, a savoir pour la rente 1995-1996: 30 % en
premire annie, 30 % cn   anni et 15 S  en 3  aanme, et asi de site
Jusqu'en 6& annie.
Meszr Ll Afn de riduire Z iicit risiduel d Iissue du rediplolement et
de l'applicatbon d. la double vacation, k. Ministre de l'Education de Base
recrutera 300 erseignants vacaairs pour chacwuc des annies scolaires 1994-
1995 et 1995-1996 sur la base de conrts d'une dude iqudvlnte a l eanni
scolaire. Cas vacaires seront 4ffecds aw premier cycle 4e Lenseignement
fondamentaL
Mesurs : Concenant ks bourses, leur volume a riguliarement et
constamment aaanAti sowus l pression des effecufs, lk phinomne de
P'attributon awomatique des bourses au niveau du supiricur, donnant ainsi 
1'enveloppe allouae aux bourses des proportions considirables dans ks
budgets affectis  l'Education, et cea au di&tient de llargissement de ta
base et de la quaW de lenseignemaL Aisi pourjugukcr un tel dot de fait
ie niveau de l1enveloppe des bourses sera maintenu a son riveau de 1994 (3.9
milliards F CFA) d'une part, et son allocaion se fera selon des critares qui
encoura,gent lexcellence et retabMissent ldqdti d'autre part. Towes choses
qui contribueront l contr6k Jr les d4ses et a mobiUser des ressources pour
invesr dans la qac de 1ensembke du secteur.
jgwq,. 6: Dans 1. cadre de tlamiioration de la qualitd, et cela
confornbnaen aux normes en vi,,ueur dans le Sahe4 des lignes budgitaires
spic#iques et bien identffi4s seront inscrites dans k budget afin de
permeare davwmge de transparence. Ces lHgnes se ripartiront comme suit :
- sur ke mat"el ddtique oil 2.500 FCFA saront destin4s a chaue ualve du
cycle I ; 5.000 FCFA au cycli 11 j21:000 FCFA au secodaire gindral:
35.000 FCFA au secondaire technique et professuonnel et 50.000 FCFA au
sup,rekur.
- sur Jcs depenses d'entretin qut passeront de .01 % du total du budget de
ItEduca4on en 1993 a 0,75 % en 1995; 1, V% en 1996.



ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 8
guwe.s Z. Entre atres caractiristiques nlgatives de notre systame
dducatif, it y a un fort aux de redoublement que nous comptons juguler
dijfiirivement grdce aux objectis de la Nouveile Ecok Fondamentale (NEF)
dont trois (3) des principes fondamentaux sont: lintroduction d'une
pEdagogic active (mithodologik convergente), lutilsation des langues
nationalks comme premier nmdium d'enseignement. et k renforcement du
suivi pfdagogique. En aendat les qfiets de ces inovations, ke Ministre de
'Education de Base aborera un plan dacffon vi'a  la rEduction des taux de
redoublement ai environ 15 % pour chaque classe du prmier cyck.
MguXrL 8:A linslar de la merure pricidente, notament sur l'aspect du
renforcement du suivi scolaire, 70 conseilers pedagogiques sont duj)
nommEs au premier cycle et Ik budget de fenctionnement des Inspections
majori de 20% pour permeetre aux Inspectears et aux Conseillers d'#tre
mobiles et d'intervenfr dans les ctlsses du prinmre, qfin de pou'oir aider kes
matres nouvellement recrutis et amiliorer kurs competences ainsi que k
risuta des ivaes. Actulkment, en plus dem en nombre insug)sant, ifs
sOnt aussi ddpowvus de moyens pour mener d bien kur mission.
M    oml: Le budget de l'Education se caractirisait par me ectwr e une
exploitation assez difficiles. ni reqiert unc restuctration en vue dune plus
grande transparence. Les priviswns au rtre des chapitres nouveaux et
ancens suivants scront amiloriess:
- les heures supplimentaires des enseignants travaillant en double vacation
serontpayies:
- les enseignants non chargEs de comrs seront rPiffecs;
- de nouveaux materes seront recrutis sur la bas contractuelle am niveau
rEgional afin qi'awune classe ne rest vie par difaw denseignants;
- 150 millions de F CFA seront consacris A Ientretien des classes des
d6Erents ordres d'enseignement cette annie.1994-1995 ; cette enveloppe
sera double f'annie prochaine



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 8
.7.
Mesaare Z: Le cadre lXgal et r4glementaire du dEveloppement de
l'anse.irPama  prvO es: peu Lnrix&tVpour la promotion viritabe du sectur
privi en faycer de l'ducaion. Pour y pallier, les tces officiels favorisn
I'expassion des £coles communautaire setprivies - midersas. deabllssements
privis larcs, et ceux encadis par les ONG - sous 14 supervision des
Ministres de l'Education ont ff4 adoptes et mis en application..
En plus, il convient de fire connattre a toutes les commeautais,
queles qu'elles soknt, les procidures d'obtention de lagrdment pour les
dcoks privies et s modliads defifancmen: des infrastructures scolaires.
Le Gouvernement aorisera etfinuncera la construction d'un mininum de
120 salles de classes privies ou communautaires en 1994 et de 150 classes
pries ou communautaires en 1995.
MArg..IL: Les stratgies d'antoA reaives a 1'enseignement supirieu,
sont en train de nosjours de se rdvikr t ps. Aussi ta nouvelie sasgie
consimt-"Ie  A riviser ks tetes o  aya  trait A la restructuradon de
1'enseignement supirieur. La sttigle devra dfflnir des parametres et
diterminer les conditons requises pour la resrcturadon et a consodion
de l'enseignement supirieur et assurer son dAveloppement compatible avec
les contruaaesfiaciares de l'Etat, la demande du marchi du travail et la
quali de laformation. Cete stratigie devra uclure une dnito claire des
apects tels que la relation entre ls grandes icoles et l'Universit4, la capaci
d'accuel Les termes de rifirence sur la restructuration de lI'Enseignement
Supirieur ont ti acceptis par la Banque Mondiale. Le plan de
restructuration sara sownis d L'IDA dicifin Avril 1995. Lexamen des textes
officials crians lUniversiui et clarnt ks politques relatives a sa structure.
aux conditions d¶acc4s, aux co&su, 4a financement, sera confiee a une
srture administrative en vue de lar riviion.
Plus concritement, nous anendons uae amitioration de 1'accas au
prunaire et de liquite' a tous les niveaux La riallocation des ressources,
slgjoutant aux mesures relatives au personnel et a l'uailisation des classes,
devra ouvrir lenseignement primaire d un minimum de 102.000 fl&ves
sispplimentaires dans les deux annles.dont 88.500 pour k public et environ,
13.500 pour le privi suivat la mise en oeuvre du programme de riforme
(soit environ 50.000 LlFves supplimentaires par an). Les dipenses rdservdes
au matdriel didactique. a ilentretien des locaux et a la supervision
pAdagogique seront privigiMes. Cette alocation plus e31icace



".4 t
ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 8
des ressourcesfnanawiires, humaines watrilles devra accrofre la qualiW
et leffict c'4a t,ous les nveaux de l'enseignemmnt II est escomptf que ks
tests de performance standrd du primaire ct ks taux d'admission aux
examens de ftn d'anne A taos Iks niveaux connatront wit progression
sg,n&cve dans Its cinq annies suivant la mise en oeuvre du programme de
r6fonmu.. L'afficacW insamz d.wv  sawmifiorer grht h pIuxid.mr.facteurv *
dbponihbdi  accrue de matiriel dacqu. alitoraion de ta supervision
pikgogique du personnel enseignan  effectfs pls rdts des classes, cible
de 15*  pour ks redoubkments,
Sur k plan £conomlque ef social Ies bi6nffces du cridit proposd seront
ubsrarnlels.bien qu'l soit dfkikl de les quant#Ier avec pricision et quits
ne dovent devenir perceptibes que longeemps aprs la mise en oeuvre des
r(ormes. Ces binifices comprendront une utilisation plus efficace des
ressources publiques, permeawt taccroissement de l¶efpacai interne et de
l'effiac*i c*enre des dipenses publlques, pafic&rement dans ie secteur
de l'ducation.
Les mesures privues contribueronta kever ies obstacks fondamentaux
a la lune contre 1l pauvreti, par it ddveloppement des ressources humaines
es I'accrolssement de la productiviti du travaiL qui constitu4 kt capital du
pays. Enfin, Is reformes proposies devraient accrottre ks taux
d'alphabeisadon de la popuaion. ce qui constu wn aspect important pour
ae renforcement de 4 dwmcrade et k dieloppement cuaurel du Mali
Le Gouvernement du MOali est convaincu que l1ensemble de ces
mesres privues a cour temepourrait contribuer A rekver sensiblement k
faux de scolarisadon et A armnliorer a qualiti de lenseignement dispensi a
tous ks niveaux
Veuilhez agrier, Monsieur t Prisident, I'expression de notre haute
cons kdidon.
LE MINMSThE DES ENSErGNEMENS                LE AfINISTRE DE
SECODAIRE, SUflRIELR ET Dr LA           LBDUCAT7ON DE BASE P.
C... SCIENTIFIQUE    . .
-                                         £



ANNIX 7
Page 1 of 1
MALI
EDUCATION SECAL BUDGET POLICY NUMBERS
.___.__M 1994 (actuafl    1995          1996
Personnel Expenditures                 14,065,707,88  14,333,582,88  14,536,707,88
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         ~~~~~~~~0    0             0
- Double -Shifting 6 165,000 FCFA, __         _        127,875,000   231,00,00
- Vacataires @ 350,000 FCFA                            S105,000,000   210000000
- Redeploy Teachers @ 100,000 FCFA                      35,000,000    30,000,000
Scholarship Expenditures                3,933,699,000  3,900,000,000  3,900,000,000
Didactic Material Expenditures                              __ _
Primary (} 2,500 FCFA per student       558,270 438  1,480,082,500  1,605,082,500
- Lower Secondary!a 10,000                87.979,562   203,545,125   213,722,381
- .          -l                                                         a X . , . ,.Upper Sec. Gen. K 21,000'  440 517,000   440,517,000   440 517,000
- Upper Sec. Voc. @ 35,0001              534,415,000   534,415,000   534,415,000
- Higher Education (M 50,000P            401,795,100 _375,000,000   375,000,000
Sub Total                               2,022,977,100 3,033,559,625  3,168,736,881
Operations and Maintenance              1,282,163,120  1,432,163,120  1,582,163,120
Target: maintenance @ 1.5% total ed. $)                150,000,000   300,000,000
Consequences                            ..            _
-Cycle 1 Expenditures                   8,674,817,360 9,934,504,422  10,477,629,42
2
- Cycle I Increase3                            35%           15%            5%
Total Ed. Expendi-ures                 22,819,110,00 24,008,491,56  24,496,793,81
0            1             7
Nominal Annual Increase                                       5%    2%
Increase as % of 1994 GoVt Recurent                        0.87%         1.23%
Expe ditures__                            _ _ _ _ _  __  _ _ _ _ _
Share Cycle lJTotal Ed. Exp.                   38%           41%           43%
\1: 70% of per student material allocation is considered to be for didactic materials.
\2: Estimated to be equivalent to 70% of total material expenditures for higher education.
\3: In nominal terms; 1994 increase should be qualified in light of devaluation ane 1994 inflation.



ANEX 8
Page I of 2
Status of Bank Operations in MALI
Statement of IBRI) Loans and IDA Credits
(as of September 30, 1994)
Amount in USSmillion**                1js ARPP
les cancellation)               Supervision Rating
Undisbursed
Loan or                                                          Undis-   as percent of   Dev.      Implem.
Credit No.    FY     Borower        Purpose             IDA      bursed   commitments   Objective  Progress
39 Credits dosed                                       416.43
C1629-ML      1986   Mali         Highways V           48.60    14.41        29.6          S
C1906-MLI(S)  1988   Mali         O1Bce du Niga II      39.80    18.39       46.2          S         S.
C1938-MLI    1938   Mali          Pub Enterprise Inst Dev  9.50    .86         9.0         U         U
C1998-MLI    1989   Mawl          Powera                33.00    25.16       76.2          S         S.
C2054-MI(S)  1989   Mali         Education Sector Cons. 23.94    8.06        33.7         U         S
C2163-MLI(S)  1990   Mali         Agricultural SECAL    53.00    19.96        37.7         S         HS
C21884MLI(S)  1991   Mali         SAL I                 70.00     2.08         2.9         S         S
C2217-MLI    1991   Mali          Health/PopiRural      26.60    19.35       72.7          HS        HS
C2235-MLI    199l   Mali          Agricultural Services   24.40    16.71     68.5          HS        S
C2370-ML      1992   Mali         Natural Res. Mgmt.    20.40    19.42        95.2         HS        HS
C2371-MLI    1992   Mali          Public Works & Cap.   20.00     8.38       41.9          HS        HS
C2390-MU      1992   Mali         Mining Capacity        6.00     5.97        99.5         S         S
C2432-ML      1993   Mlbi         Pri,ate Sector Assist.   12.00  9.92        82.7         S         U
C2S57MlJ    1994   Mai            Agricultural Research   20.00    20.83     104.1         HS        S
C2580-MLI(S)  1994   Mali         Economic Recovery     25.00     0.00         0.0         HS        HS
C2617-MI1    1994   Mali          Tranport Sector       65.00    67.64       104.0         HS        HS
TOTAL number of Credits a sixtetn (16)                 497.24   257.15        51.7
TOTAL (including closed project)        913.67
of which repaid           24.00
TOTAL held by IDA                       889.67
TOTAL undisbursed
Note:
* Ratings are those of Last ARPP (1994). S. U. HS indicate Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory and Highly Satisfactory performance
repectivelY.
' Total Approve, Repaymets, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Credits
(S) indicates SAUSECAL Credit



ANE 8
Page 2 of 2
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN MALI
(As of September 30,1994)
Original Gross Conunitmes
Fiscal                                  Type of                  Loan    Equity  Total
Year      Companv                       Business                        US$ mil
1978      Socift Mamadou Sada
Diallo et Frtres (SOMACI)    General Manufacturing    0.6      -       0.61
1982      Societe Industrielle          Sheanut Processing       1.9     0.5      2.32
de Karite (SIKA)
1991      Labo-Mali (AEF)               Medical Lab              0.1              0.1
1992      Socite Minire de
Syama (SOMISY)               Mining                  22.2      1.4    23.6
1994      Hotel Bamako (AEP)            Tourism                  0.9      -       0.9
Gross Commitments              25.7     1.9    27.5
Less repayments, write-offs
and cancellations               2.6     0.4      3.0
Net Commitments heldby IFC     23.1     1.4    24.5
Total Undisbursed               4.1     -        4.1
I = Fully repaid
2 - Written off



ANNEX 9
Page I of I
REPUBLJC OF MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CRED1T
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.    Tine taken to prepare the Credit:                  Four months
2.    Iitial discussions with IDA:                       May 1994
3.    Appraisal:                                         December 1994
4.    Negotiations:                                      December 1994
5.    Board presentation:                                December 22, 1994
6.    Planned date of effectiveness:                     January 15,1995
7.    Expected project completion:                       December, 1996



