Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2673 MLI
                       Development Credit Agreement
                   (Education Sector Adjustment Credit)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated January 12, 1995
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2673 MLI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 12, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
MALI (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
December 6, 1994, from the Borrower (hereinafter called the
Letter) describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural reforms in the
Borrower's education sector (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution; and
      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two
tranches as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities
      that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
      pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
      Development Credit Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
      between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower
      shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of
      such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
      reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit
      Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the
      Association of their respective obligations under the
      Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
      purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);
and
      (b)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-four million three hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 34,300,000).
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual
date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled;
Page  3
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October
15, commencing April 15, 2005 and ending October 15, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October
15, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
Page  4
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such other date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, designed to ensure the continued
achievement of the objectives of the Program;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than six
                  months after the end of each such year, a
                  certified copy of the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records and
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for
                  the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                  from the Credit Account was made, all records
Page  5
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has furnished to
the Association evidence satisfactory to the Association
showing that a double-shift teaching system has been
implemented for the 1994/1995 academic year in: (a) thirty
percent (30%) of the first grade primary education classrooms,
and (b) fifteen percent (15%) of the second grade primary
education classrooms.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere des Finances
              et du Commerce
            Bamako
            Mali
                                          Telex:
                                            2559
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
Page  6
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF MALI
                        By /s/ Siragatou Ibrahim Cisse
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association
by notice to the Borrower:
       Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
       112                --          Alcoholic beverages
       121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                      refuse
       122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                      or not containing tobacco
                                      substitutes)
       525                --          Radioactive and associated
                                      materials
       667                --          Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                      stones, unworked or worked
Page  7
       718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                      thereof, fuel elements
                                      (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                      nuclear reactors
Group                  Subgroup       Description of Items
       728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
       897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                      platinum group metals (except
                                      watches and watch cases) and
                                      goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                      wares (including set gems)
       971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                      gold ores and concentrates)
    (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower, excluding,
if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another
country, expenditures in such currency for goods supplied from
the territory of such other country;
    (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 13,700,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after July 12, 1994;
    (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
    (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance; and
    (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.  Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 may
be required by the Association upon the basis of statements of
expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify.
4.  No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR
20,500,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Program, (b) that the macro-economic framework of
the Borrower is consistent with the objective of the Program,
and (c) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken.
5.  If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and actions taken are not
satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice,
the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions
satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit or any part thereof.
Page  8
                                SCHEDULE 2
                                Procurement
1.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to
the following modifications:
    (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
    "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified in a
    timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
    by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
    bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
    to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
    newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
    and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                technical journal of wide international
                circulation; or
        (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                that are potential suppliers of the goods
                required".
    (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may
    require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
    currency widely used in international trade and specified in
    the bidding documents.".
    (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
    (d)   For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
    (e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $1,000,000 shall be awarded:
    (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the
basis of such procedures, provided that such procedures shall
Page  9
have been found acceptable by the Association; and
    (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be
awarded on the basis of evaluation comparison of two quotations
obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except
that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the
Association may be used where considered appropriate under
paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.  Contracts for the procurement of proprietary equipment or
standardized equipment required for compatibility with existing
equipment, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $2,000,000, shall be awarded through direct
contracting, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
4.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and
recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
5.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2
and 3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information
as the Association may reasonably request to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
6.  The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
from the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
7.  All goods to be imported for the execution of the Program
shall be subject to preshipment inspection for price, quantity
and quality verification by a suitably qualified and
experienced preinspection firm, provided, however, that goods
to be procured under paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall be
exempted from preshipment price inspection.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                  Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (c)
                      of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.  The Borrower has implemented, for the 1995/1996 academic
year, a double-shift teaching system in at least 30 percent of
the first and second grade classrooms, and 15 percent of the
third-grade classrooms;
2.  For the 1995/1996 academic year, the Borrower has: (a)
applied the system provided for in the Borrower's Arretes
Numbers 10494 and 10496 of December 5, 1994 for access to
secondary and higher education, and (b) implemented a system,
satisfactory to the Association, for access to the seventh
grade of the second cycle of basic education, based on
enrollment capacity and academic performance;
3.  The Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association showing that the provisions on
scholarship included in Decret Number 94/331-PRM of October 25,
1994 have been applied in the upper secondary and higher
education cycles.
Page  10
4.  The Borrower has: (a) maintained its budgetary allocation
for scholarships, for the 1995/96 academic year, at a level not
exceeding that of 1994, in nominal terms; and (b) allocated
sufficient funds, in its 1996 budget, for the implementation,
during the Borrower's 1996 fiscal year, of measures listed in
the Letter.
5.  The Borrower has: (a) redeployed, before the start of the
1995/1996 academic year, at least 300 teachers from
administrative to teaching positions in primary education; (b)
recruited at least 300 additional temporary teachers
(vacataires), and appointed 70 additional pedagogical advisers;
(c) completed a study on school accommodation schedules and
teaching load; (d) based on the conclusions and recommendations
of said study, adopted an action plan acceptable to the
Association for the implementation of the recommendations of
said study; and (e) thereafter, implemented measures included
in said action plan for the 1995/1996 academic year.
6.  The Borrower has: (a) adopted an action plan acceptable to
the Association for the establishment of a national university,
and (b) obtained the Council of Ministers' approval of all
measures necessary on its part for adoption of legislative and
regulatory reforms required for the implementation of said
action plan.
7.  The Borrower has: (a) adopted an action plan acceptable to
the Association for the reduction of the repetition rate in
primary education, and (b) implemented measures included in
said action plan for the 1995/1996 academic year.
