Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
Report No. 5792
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND: SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1773-TH)
June 28, 1985
Operations Evaluation Department
I Is deemet   m h        l d asumary hewd bY eedieb OmYI 1wdaafmamc of
tlbelr0-- &dmlb  1"mf =V sont&              be _ba          ortWld  _sk  _{wwhao



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND;  SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1773-TH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .....                  ..... . . ........................                       i
Basic Data Sheet                  ...................... ....                          ii
Highlights ................................. , ............                            iv
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANP-i
I.    PAST BANK ASSISTANCE TO ENERGY SECTOR ...................                   1
II.    PROJECT RATIONALE .............. ...... ..   ..... .......                  2
III.  GAS EXPLORATION .........................                                     6
IV.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS .................... ...                  7
V.    PROJECT COST AND IMPLEMENTATION .........................                   9
VI.    GAS RESERVES AND PRODUCTION FORECASTS ...................                  13
VII.    PROJECT ECONOMICS .......................................                   19
VIII.   GAS PRICING AND PROJECT BENEFICIARIES ................             ...       24
IX.    CONCLUSIONS .............................................                  28
Attachment - Comments from the Government .........................                    3;
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.    Introduction ...........................................                   33
II.   Project Preparation and Appraisal ......................                    34
Ill.    Implementation .........................................                   35
IV.    Operating Performance ...... ............................                  41
V.   Economic Performance ...................................                    41
VI.    Institutional Performance ..............................                   44
VII.    Financial Performance ......           ............................        45
VIII.    Performance and Role of the Bank .......................                   49
IX. Conclusions                       ................  50
Annexes
1.   Comparison of Estimated and Actual Project Costs .....6                     53
2.    Schedule of Disbursements ..............................                   54
3.   Economic Analysis .....................................                     55
4.    Natural Gas Operations Finances ........................                   56
Income Statement ............................                              57
Sources and Application of Funds .......... ..            ...........      58
Balance Sheets .......        ..................................           59
Gras Sales Margins ...... ..............          ..................       60
5.    Consolidated PTT Finances ..............................                   61
Map  -      IBRD 13476R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND: SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1773-TH)
PREFACE
This Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) represents a perfor-
mance audit of the Thailand Second Natural Gas Development Project, for which
Loan 1773-TH for US$107 million equivalent was approved on December 11,
1979. The loan was fully disbursed by December 31, 1983, when it was closed.
The report consists of a Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared
by the Energy Department of the Energy and Industry Staff and a Project
Performance Audit Memorandum (PPAM) prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED). The borrower contributed to the PCR by supplying necessary
project data. OED has reviewed the PCR against the Appraisal and President's
Reports, the legal documents and the transcript of the Executive Directors'
meeting which considered the project. Project files and documents have also
been reviewed and discussions have been held with Bank operational staff.
Further, an OED mission had discussions with officials of Government depart-
ments and agencies and managers of an international oil company in April and
October 1984.
In the audit's view, the PCR gives, on the whole, a fair account of
the experience under the project.   The PPAM has expanded on a number of
issues, modified the discussion of others and added new ones.
Following standard procedures, OED sent copies of the draft PPAR
to the Government/borrower for comments.   The comments which were received
have been reproduced as an Attachment to the PPAM.



- li -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
THAILAND: SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1773-TH)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal           Actual or
Estimate        Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (USS million)                514                  423
- Underrun (%)                                 --                   18
Loan Amount (US$ million)                       107                  107
- Disbursed                                    --                  107
Date Physical Components Completed            09/01/R1             09/01/81
Proportion of Physical Components
Completed by Original Completion Date (Z)   100                    100
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                   --                    0
Economic Rate of Return (%)                      48                 45-50
Financial Rate of Return (%)                     15                   15 /a
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY79/80  FY80/81  FY81/82  FY82/b3  FY83/84
(i) Appraisal                    19.0      83.0    100.0    106.0      107
(ii) Actual                          0      70.9     96.5      96.5     107
(iii)  Actual as X of Appraisal        0      85       96        91       100
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Date Actual Date
First Mention in Files                                          n.a.
Government's Application                                        1977
Negotiations                                                  09/26/79
Board Approval                                                12/11/79
Loan Agreement                                                02/15/80
Effectiveness                                 05/15/80        05/27/81
Closing                                       12/31/83        12/31/83
Borrower and Executing Agency                 Petroleum Authority of Thailand
(PTT)
Fiscal Year of Borrower                       October I - September 30
Follow-up Project
Name                                        Liquified Petroleum Gas
Loan Number                                 2184-TH
Amount (USS million)                        90
Loan Agreement                              08/17/82
/a   According to PCR.  Calculation not verified by audit.



- iii -
MISSION DATA
Month/     No. of       Staff-    Date of
Year      Persons      weeks     Report
Identification/Preparation /a      76-78         3          17
Appraisal                          03/79         3           6       11/05/79
Supervision 1                      05/80         1           1       06/03/80
Supervision 2                      07/80         3           5       08/15/80
Supervision 3                      12/80         2           3       01/12/81
Supervision 4                      07/81         3           4       07/28/81
Supervision 5                      09/81         2           3       10/26/81
Supervision 6                       11/82        2           8       11/18/82
Completion                         01/83         3           3       08/20/84
Total                                                  50
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation):            Baht  (B)
Appraisal Year Average (1979)                     US$1.00 = B 20.3
Completion Year Average (1983)                    US$1.00 = B 23.1
/a   Including work related to Natural Gas Development Engineering Project,
Loan S10-TH, which was appraised in June 1978.



- iv -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND: SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1773-TH)
HIGHLIGHTS
The project changed the focus of the Bank's energy sector lending
in Thailand.  Prior to the project, during a period of 20 years, the Bank
provided financial assistance exclusively for hydro-electric and thermal
power generation and transmission.   Starting with the project,  the Bank
broadened the assistance to other sources and forms of indigenous energy-
gas, gas derivatives and lignite (PPAM, paras. 1-4).
Throughout the sixties and seventies, petroleum products dominated
Thailand's total energy supplies, accounting by the end of the seventies for
over 70% of the total.   Virtually all petroleum products were imported.
Because of the developments in international oil markets during the seven-
ties, Thailand's energy import dependence became a serious threat to the
economy.  This project, in combination with other projects and reformulated
energy policies, was to remove or lessen the threat (PPAM, paras. 6-14).
The project became feasible because of off-shore gas exploration
initiated in the late sixties, well before the first oil shock occurred in
1973-74.   Exploration, a complex, high risk and capital intensive under-
taking, was the exclusive domain of international oil companies (IOCs). In
the mid seventies, exploration led to the discovery of two major tracts of
commercially attractive fields, which formed the basis for the project (PPAM,
paras. 15-18).
The project was the Government's contribution toward actual use of
the latent gas reserves.  It consisted of a marine and land-based gas trans-
mission system and included consultants' services for institutional develop-
ment of the Petroleum Authoritv of Thailand (PTT), the designated pipeline
operator, and studies of energy policy issues.   Field development was the
responsibility of the IOCs. Most of the gas to be delivered under the proj-
ect was destined for use in power generation (PPAM, paras. 19, 21, and 23).
Project cost, projected at US$514 million, was financed by the
Government (US$77 million) and external borrowing (US$437 million). Matching
IOCs' total investments for exploration and development are projected to
exceed US$2 billion.  The Bank loan of US$107 million was in line with the
Bank's target of financing 15-20% of oil and gas development projects set out
in energy policy papers, but no specific explanation has emerged for deter-
mining the precise amount of the loan.   The large scope of commitment of
Government credit worthiness was explained by the IOCs' reluctance to finance
more than field exploration and development. Physical implementation of the
project was completed on schedule and with an 18Z saving in cost. The pipe-
line was commissioned in the second half of 1981 and has been in satisfactory
operation since (PPAM, paras. 24, 25, 28 and 45).



-v -
Certification of adequate gas reserves by independent reservoir
consultants was a condition for loan processing.   Between 1978 and 1983,
certified gas volumes oscillated widely.  In the latest round of assessments,
all Gulf gas reserves were substantially revised downwards on account of the
experience with the field which was first developed. That field showed high-
ly unusual geological conditions, and it could be assumed that other fields
had similar characteristics.   The entire episode generated doubts about the
rationale, validity and adequacy of the field evaluations; and it raised
questions about the Bank's role in their design or review (PPAM, paras.
33-36).
Gas production forecasts were loosely tied to the gas reserve
evaluations performed by the reservo'r consultants.   At appraisal, it was
believed that total proven and probable reserves provided an adequate safety
margin for project viability.   In the end, the margin of safetv was small,
and the reduced margin so far is only partly covered bv a gas production
agreement between an IOC and PTT.  The experience demonstrates that adequate
attention must be given to gas sales agreements, which as much as adequate
zcserves in the ground are necessary for the production of gas (PPAM, paras.
17-39).
In the first three years after gas production started (1982-84),
gas volumes were substantiallv short of projections.   Partly as a res-ilt of
production from fields which did not form the basis of the project, aggregate
Gulf production, however, should, in The coming years, approximate the pro-
jections.   Natural gas trom the Gu'.f, in conjunction with other indigenous
energy supplies and dema-d--based e;;ergv policies. is now on the threshold of
making the country's energy imporc dependence manageable (PPAM, paras. 38-39
and 54).
From the outset,  the  project  wes  viewed  as  being econnmically
highly attractive and relatively immune to serious risks.  The economic rate
of return (ERR) projected was aboait 50%. Tle PCR has recalculated the ERR at
about 45%, and the audit estimates the ERR to fali into the 45-50h range.
Indications are that the project has come a long wav toward maximizing the
investment return.   The IOC currently producing gas reports that it expects
its financial retuirn on investments to be below 15Z, a result which in its
view  is  disproportionate  to  its  investment  risks  and  to  the  project's
economic benefits to the country.   Perceptions of inadequate private sector
returns could have a bearing on IOCs' future involvement in the Thai energy
sector and invite Government and Bank attention (PPAM, paras. 42-47).
To promote energy efficiencv, ensure financial viabilitv of the
pipeline operator and generate Governmenr revenues, the project included a
provision for delivery of gas to the principal end-user (power generating
utility) at a price close to 90% o' the cost of fiel oi.  To enforce the
provision, loan effectiveness was held up bv 1. months.   In the end, the
provision was relaxed, and the fueJ oil parity actuallv achit-ved was between
70 and 802 (PPAM, paras. 68--91'.



- vi -
As a result of the project, PTT's Office of Natural Gas, if not PTT
itself, was expected to show an outstanding financial performance. Rates of
return on net fixed revalued assets and cash balances projected were, for
Thai state enterprises, exceptionally high.  However, the project contained
no special proviston for transforming PTT revenues into treasury revenues.
The project, in this regard, may riot have been fully consistent with the
apparent objective of generating budget revenmies, and it may not have
reinforced financial discipline (PPAM, para. 52).



- 1 -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
THAILAND: SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1773-TB)
I.  PAST BANK ASSISTANCE TO ENERGY SECTOR
1.        The Second Natural Gas Development Project (pr pared under an engi-
neering loan, the -first- gas project) marked the beginning of a second phase
in the long-standing Bank support to the Thai energy sector. Under the first
phase, which lasted 20 years from 1957 (the year of the first lending opera-
tion) to 1977, financial assistance was exclusively provided for (hydroelec-
tric and thermal) power generation and power transmission through loans made
to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) and its prede-
cessor utilities._/   Under the second phase, starting in 1978, the Bank
became involved in the development of (non-hydro) indigenous sources of
energy-gas, gas derivatives and lignite, to address the wider needs of the
Thai energy sector since the mid-seventies and to fulfill its mandate of more
diversified and intensified energy sector assistance to its member countries.
2.        Thirteen power project and power subsector loans to EGAT and its
piedecessors for a total of US$673.1 million, and three loans to the Provin-
cial Electricity Authority (PEA)2/ for a total of US$130.6 million have so
far been made. The projects were reported to have been satisfactorily imple-
mented or are in progress.  Another power subsector loan to finance EGAT's
investment program is under preparation.  Project Performance Audit Reports
(PPARs) were issued on three projects (Loans 655-TH of 1970, 790-TH of 1971
and 977-TH of 1974). All three projects were evaluated as having met their
major stated objectives.
3.        Three gas-related projects were financed, for a total loan amount
of US$201.9 million:  the Natural Gas Development Engineering Project (Loan
SOIO-TH of 1978), the project under audit (Loan 1773-TH of 1979) and the
Liquified Petroleum Gas Project (Loan 2184-TH of 1982).  Loan SOLO-TH pre-
pared the project supported under Loan 1773-TH through project management,
engineering and financial services, and through training and advisory ser-
vices to the entity designated to implement Loan 1773-TH.   Loan 2184-TH
financed a gas separation plant to recover LPG, propane and other hydro-
carbons from natural gas piped from the Gulf, storage and distribution
I/  EGAT, a state enterprise, is the largest Thai utility generating and
supplying electric power.
2/   PEA, also a state enterprise, is charged with the supply of electricity
outside Bangkok Metropolitan Area.   It is engaged primarily in the
transmission of power, buying most of its electricity from EGAT.



- 2 -
installations for LPG and propane, and studies and technical assistance.
Another gas-related project, the Bangchak Oil Refinery Restructuring Project
(Loan 2548-TH), was recently approved.  Preparation of a project related to
on-shore oil field development is in progress.
4.        The Bank has supported lignite production through two operations,
the Mae Moh Lignite Project (Loan 1852-TH of 1980) and the Second Mae Moh
Lignite Project (Loan 2407-TH) of 1984. Total Bank financing was US$131.1
million.  EGAT, which operates the Mae Mob mioe, was the borrower in both
cases.
5.        Several other recent Bank operations had energy-related components,
including the Structural Adjustment Loan (2097-TH of 1982, SAL I), the Second
Structural Adjustment Loan (2256-TB of 1983, SAL II) and the Second Provin-
cial Roads Project (Loan 2311-TH of 1983). SAL I included agreements on the
design of a program of energy conservation, pricing/taxation and development;
creation of an institutional framework for energy policy coordination; and
the undertaking of a petroleum pricing study later expanded to cover also gas
and lignite (Energy Pricing Study). Under SAL II, the Government undertook
to formulate an action program for energy pricing, based on the SAL I pricing
study, and to institute steps to further the efficiency of energy use in
industry and transport.  Loan 2256-TB also dealt with specific aspects of
energy pricing in transport. Bank assistance to the Thai energy sector has
also been rendered in the context of the country economic and sector work,
and a major undertaking, a formal energy assessment, is currently underway.
The Third Structural Adjustment Loan, under preparation, is expected to
include further provisions for energy policy reforms.
II. PROJECT RATIONALE
The Macro-economic Issue
6.        Fuelled by high growth rates of a strongly expanding economy,
Thailand's consumption of primary energy3l in the sixties grew at the fast
pace of 15-17% p.a. Comercial energy, representing between 80-90% of total
primary energy, even grew at a slightly higher rate, far ahead of the more
slowly expanding non-commercial energy. The overall pace continued into the
seventies up to the first oil shock in 1973/74, when growth temporarily came
to a halt.  It bounced back thereafter to about 8-9% p.a. until, during the
second oil shock in 1979/80, there was once more a brief period of no
growth.   Despite the two periods of contractions, energy supply in the
seventies expcnded at an average rate of 7% p.a., marginally ahead of growth
in GDP.
3/   Commercial and non-commercial energy combined.  Non-commercial energy
includes chercoal, firewood, bagasse (based on sugar cane) and paddy
husk.



7.        Throughout the sixties and seventies, petroleum products dominated
total energy supply. By the end of the seventies, they accounted for about
72Z of total supply, while hydroelectricity provided about 3X of energy,
lignite and small quantities of (imported) coal combined also about 3%, and
other, mostly non-cocmercial fuels, the remaining 22Z.  Again, by the late
seventies, transport consumed some 41X of oil products, followed by electric-
ity and water supply with 21X, the manufacturing industry with 18Z, agricul-
ture (including fisheries) with 11X, and all other sectors combined, with 9Z.
B.        Virtually all petroleum products were imported to Thailand, either
as crude oil for processing in Thai refineries or as end-use products. Since
1973/74, because of the steep increases in (real) prices for petroleum prod-
ucts, these imports progressively burdened the Thai economy and weakened its
external trading and financial position.   By 1980, net oil energy imports
amounted to about US$2.5 billion, which was about 30% of total merchandise
imports and 42% of total merchandise exports. They equalled the trade defi-
cit and 8% of GDP of that year.
Energy Sector Strategy
9.        To limit the exposure to events in the international oil markets
and to counter the high cost of energy supply, the Government, in the late
seventies, developed a two-pronged energy strategy: energy conservation and
constraints on growth in energy demand; and shift of energy supply toward
domestic energy resources.   The strategy of energy conservation and con-
straining energy demand was, to a large measure, based on the close linkage
of domestic energy prices with international oil prices.4/ After little
domestic price adjustments in the mid-seventies for oil products, the
Government sharply increased the prices in the late seventies. On various
occasions since, the Government has confirmed the principle of reflecting
price movements of imported energy in the domestic price structure.   A
complementary element of the pricing strategy was a package of regulatory
measures of energy conservation, particularly in industry and transport.  The
design of sectoral conservation programs was to be started off with an
4/   Such a linkage was to be incorporated in the project (PPAM, para. 49).



industrial energy audit5/ and to gradually cover other key consumptive
sectors.6/
10.       The strategy of substitution of imported oil products was based on
the development of all commercial sources of domestic primary energy--hydro-
power, lignite and natural gas. Power, industry and transport were the most
important sectors targeted for import substitution. Power offered the great-
est scope for substitution of oil products because of potentially large-scale
use of all three sources of indigenous energy. Industry could make wider use
of lignite, on which it already based a small fraction of its fuel needs, and
shift to natural gas, where feasible.   Transport could utilize liquified
petroleum gas (LPG), a component of natural gas, to power vehicle engines as
a substitute for gasoline and possibly diesel.   With some modifications in
engines and fuel storage, passenger and smaller freight vehicles could effi-
ciently be run on LPG, and there were even prospects for use of LPG in larger
utility vehicles.7/
11.       About one-half of the hydroelectric potential assessed at the time
was considered economically feasible. By the late seventies, only about 20%
of this potential was installed, leaving considerable scope for further
expansion. In the long run, there was also the hydropotential of the inter-
national Mekong and Salween Rivers, matching Thailand's entire domestic hydro
resources, though political and security considerations precluded its exploi-
tation for the foreseeable future.   Various plans developed at that time
5/   An industrial energy audit was an item included in the project (PPAM,
paras. 21 and 30).
6/   Two studies on related topics, one financed by the Asian Development
Bank and the other by Japanese bilateral assistance, are in the final
stages of completion. A study of incentives for energy conservation in
industry, with Bank financing, is scheduled for the near future.   For
the transport sector, the Ministry of Communications, with Bank assis-
tance (Sixth Highway Project, Loan 1519-TH) undertook a study on energy
policies which, completed in 1982, forms the basis for a detailed action
program currently under preparation. Other studies also had a bearing
on energy conservation issues:   a Bank-financed lignite pricing study
(Mae Moh Lignite Project, Loan 1852-TH), completed in 1983, and an
energy pricing study (Loan 2097-TH), completed in draft final form in
1983. Refer also to PCR, para. 3.17.
7/   In recent years, a growing number of smaller vehicles (in particular,
taxis) operating in the Bangkok Metropolitan Area on imported LPG, has
confirmed the feasibility of an LPG-based fuel supply system.



- 5 -
envisaged doubling or tripling installed hydrocapacity by the late
eighties.8/
12.       Thailand's (proven and probable) lignite reserves were, by the end
of the seventies, assessed at about 750 million metric tons. The reserves,
about one-half of them economically recoverable, were upgraded from only 200
million tons a few years earlier.   Production had more than doubled from
1977-78 to 1979-80 and was projected to at least quadruple by the early
nineties.9/  The largest deposits are at Mae Moh in the North.  Other sig-
nificant deposits are at Krabi in the South, and there are small deposits in
various other locations.   The Mae Moh and Krabi deposits are mined by EGAT
for use in power generation. The other mines are operated by private indus-
trial companies which use the lignite as a source of fuel.10/
13.       Thailand's confirmed gas reserves, as evaluated in the late seven-
ties, were by Thai energy standards of formidable dimensions.   The fields,
all off-shore in the Gulf of Thailand, were (in 1979) assessed at 7-6 tril-
lion cubic feet (tcf) of economically recoverable reserves, of which _.9 tcf
were proven and 4.7 tcf were probable (PPAM, para. 33). All fields combined
were conservatively estimated to produce some 500-600 million cubic feet per
dayL/ (MKCFD)  over  some  20 years,  or  equivalent quantities  for other
periods (PPAM, para. 38).
8/   Current plans aim at an 80% utilization of the economically feasible
hydro-potential by about the mid-nineties.
9/   Production was 0.6 million tons per year (tpy) in 1977-78, and 1.3-1.4
million tpy in 1979-80.   Under investments undertaken since 1980 with
Bank assistance, current (1983) mine output is about 1.8 million tpy,
and with other Bank assisted investments in progress (para. 4), 1986
output is expected to be about 5.0 million tpy. Current long-term plans
envisage total production to reach about 12 million tpy in the early
nineties, a twenty-fold increase over the 1977-78 levels.
10/ In 1982, non-EGAT mines produced some 0.15 million tons, about 9% of the
country total.
11/ Quantities standardized at calorific value of 1,000 British Thermal
Units (BTU) per cubic foot.



- 6 -
14.       The energy sector strategy, shaped in the late seventies,12/ was
projected to produce these global results:  restraint of energy demand to a
growth rate approximating that of GDP, in the eighties; and supply of primary
energy from indigenous resources in the order of 55-65% of total needs, by
around 1990. Among the comuercial energy sources, hydropower was to reach a
supply share in 1990 of some 7%, up from 3Z in 1980; lignite, some 10%, up
also from 3Z; and natural gas, 18-25Z, up from zero percent. The projections
were based on production of some 500 MMCFD of gas. The supply scenarios made
it explicit that natural gas had the potentially largest impact on oil import
substitution, in view of the smaller resource base of hydropower and lignite,
and that any serious setback in gas production would be an equally serious
setback for energy import substitution.
III. GAS EXPLORATION
15.       The project was based on gas exploration initiated some ten years
earlier, well before the 1973/74 oil shock forced a global rethinking of
energy policies and raised rewards for development of indigenous energy. The
exploration was greatly helped by improvements in off-shore drilling tech-
niques and the 1972 passage of Thai legislation under which the legal and
fiscal rights and obligations of concessionaires were established. A tech-
nologically highly complex, risky and capital intensive undertaking, explora-
tion was the exclusive domain of international oil companies (IOCs),13/
which included well known names in the industry.
16.       Early exploration was onshore.  With the prospect of new legisla-
tion, exploration interests focused on off-shore areas, the Gulf of Thailand
and the Andaman Sea, and the first concessions for those areas were granted
in the late sixties.  Actual off-shore exploration was concentrated in the
Gulf, with only minor activities in the Andaman Sea.   Exploration in the
Andaman Sea was finally discontinued and the concessions were relinquished by
mid-seventy after prospects for finds had diminished.   Exploration in the
Gulf spanned over the entire seventies, with a marked intensity in 1974 and
1975. In the mid seventies, it led to the discovery of two major tracts of
gas fields by two concessionaires, Union Oil (in partnership with South East
Asia Petroleum Exploration Company) and Texas Pacific (in partnership with
Canadian Superior Oil Company and Highland, Inc.).
12/ The Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1982-86) reiterated the Govern-
ment's resolve to restructure the energy demand and supply, and it
recast and formalized the quantitative sector targets. Under this plan,
total energy consumption was to be limited to 4.6Z p.a. during the plan
period, a figure below the target growth rate of GDP; and the share of
oil products consumption of total (primary) energy consumption was set
at 46% by the end of the plan period (down from over 70% in 1980).
13/ Various formulas for Thai capital participation in exploration are being
explored.



-7-
17.       Union Oil discovered its first commercial quantities of gas in the
so-called 'A Structure, a field also known under the name of Erawan.
Located some 425 km south of Sattahip port on the Eastern Seaboard, and some
150 km off the coast of southern Thailand, the field covers an area of about
25 x 5 km.  The other fields, which Union Oil subsequently discovered, were
Baanpot to the south of Erawan and Kaphong, Platong, Pladong and Satun to its
north, all of them (including Erawan) forming an area of some 180 x 60 km.
Texas Pacific made its discoveries in a field known as -B' Structure, some
170 km southeast from Erawan and some 200 km off the southern peninsula.
Both these Union Oil and Texas Pacific fields formed the basis for the Second
Natural Gas Pipeline Project.
18.       The first concessions for on-shore exploration were also granted
and relinquished by the early seventies, after several wells drilled were
dry.  In the late seventies, interest in on-shore exploration was rekindled,
and new concessions were issued to several firms.   isso, one of them, has
more recently struck gas in the Korat Basin in the Northeast, and expecta-
tions are that there are commercially significant gas reserves.14/
IV. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
19.       The project was the Government's contribution toward production,
transport and utilization of Gulf gas.  It entailed Government financing of
large investments for the gas pipeline system and a Government commitment to
purchase, market and utilize the gas.  Having already financed gas explora-
tion and being prepared to finance field development, IOCs were reluctant to
also finance the transmission system.  To the Government, the project was a
high-yielding and relatively risk-free venture to transform latent and
14/  In addition, Shell struck oil in the upper central plains.  The field,
Sirikit, came into production in 1983. It currently yields about 20,000
barrels of oil per day (bpd), and output is expected to remain at about
this level.   The oil field has raised hopes for more substantial oil
discoveries.



- 8 -
confirmed energy resources into tangible and quickly maturing economic
benefits.15/
20.       The Bank played several roles under the project.   It assisted in
arranging external financing for the public investments, which in view of
tight domestic resources was mandatory.   It helped organize the efficient
installation and management of the gas transport and distribution system, and
it endorsed the Government's Gulf gas development plans, project investments
and agreements.    Jointly  with other external project  sponsors,  it also
provided the private sector with cover against conceivable, though in no way
imminent non-commercial risks.
21.       The project focused on the provision and phasing-in of the gas
transport and distribution system. Other main areas of attention were insti-
tutional development of the executing agency and designated operator of the
pipeline, the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT), and studies of selected
energy sector issues.  The transport and distributioi  system consisted of a
marine pipeline (about 425 km) from the Erawan field to shore, a landbased
pipeline (about i70 km) to two EGAT power plants in Bangkok, and on-shore
terminal and operating facilities, including a communication center. Insti-
tutional development of PTT was to be achieved primarily through a program of
staff training in a broad range of gas-related skills, including pipeline
operations and accounting/finance.  The sectoral issues to be studied, also
with consultants' assistance, included gas utilization, refinery expansion
and energy conservation, the latter topic covering all of the following: an
energy audit, an investment program for energy savings, policies for energy
demand management a.nd future investments in energy including non-conventional
sources.16/
22.       The marine pipeline was dimensioned to carry about 500 MMCFD of gas
under free flow conditions and up to 700 MMCFD, if compressors (not included
in the project) were added. Pipeline capacity was based on projected extrac-
tion of gas from  the Erawan field  ("A  Structure,  Union Oil),  the  B
15/  The SAR and President's Report did not include an explicit statement of
project objectives.   Some objectives may not have needed much elabora-
tion, and others were implicitly covered in various parts of the
reports.   The lack of such statement, nonetheless,  renders the task
difficult to evaluate project progress and success.   Explicit, struc-
tured, coherent and operationally relevant objectives, which are amena-
ble to monitoring, should be routinely made part of project documents.
16/  Scope of energy conservation studies in accordance with SAR, para. 2.08
(Project Description) and Minutes of Understanding, September 26, 1979,
para. 15.  In fact, the Loan Agreement (Schedule 2, Description of the
Project, Part E: Studies) referred only to an energy audit of major
industries.



- 9 -
Structure (Texas Pacific) and other, at the time yet uaconfirmed, eas struc-
tures.17/ A pipeline with a smaller diameter dedicated to the projected
Erawan production only would have resulted in savings of some 10% of total
project cost, but would have required construction of a second pipeline for
the Texas Pacific gas, had it come on stream while Erawan was at its pro-
jected peak. A pipeline with a larger diameter was apparently rejected
because a throughput exceeding 700 MMCFD (with compressors) was considered
unlikely.
23.       A cornerstone of the project was the existence  of a gas sales
agreement between Union Oil and PTT, under which, starting by September 1981,
gas from Erawan would be delivered in annual quantities of 200 MMCFD in the
first year of production (1982) and, subject to annual confirmation, 250
MMCFD thereafter. The contracted gas volumes were tied to the estimated size
of Erawan's economically recoverable reserves and expected to be sustained
for about 20 years.  The sales agreement was signed in 1978.  It was contin-
gent upon certification of a minimum of 1.0 tcf of proven recoverable
reserves in the Erawan field, a condition which was met several months prior
to loan approval.18/ The Union Oil-PTT contract included a take-or-pay
provision, under which PTT would be heavily penalized19/ if it did not take
delivery of the gas. PTT expected to cover its own contractual risks through
a take-or-pay gas sales agreement with EGAT (for quantities broadly matching
those of the Union Oil-PTT contract), which was not yet in force when the
loan was approved, but made a condition of loan effectiveness.20/
V. PROJECT COST AND IMPLEMENTATION
24.       Total project cost, including physical and price contingencies and
interest during construction, were estimated at appraisal at about US$514
million.   They were  to be financed  by a Government  contrioution  (US$77
million), export credits by the United States, Japan and European countries
17/  The pipeline connecting the -B  Structure with the Erawan pipeline was
not included in the project, but expected to be laid after the Texas
Pacific gas had been contracted.
18/  SAR, para. 2.03.  The amounts certified were 1.1 tcf of proven and 0.4
tcf of probable reserves.
19/ SAR, para. 2.15. Penalty in the order of USS0.5 million per day in 1982
based on 200 MMCFD.
20/ Despite the lack of a binding agreement between PTT and EGAT when the
loan was made, it was expected that EGAT would be agreeable to taking
timely delivery of the gas (PPAM, para. 49-51).



- 10 -
(US$180 million), loans from commercial banking sources (US$150 million) and
the Bank loan (US$107 million). The Bank loan was primarily to finance the
off- and on-shore pipelaying contracts, and it was to refinance the loan
(US$4.9 million) arranged under the Natural Gas Development Engineering
Project (Loan S010-TH).  No clear rationale has emerged to support the pre-
cise amount of the Bank loan.21/
25.       Actual total project costs were about  US$423 million, which is
US$91 million or 18% below the SAR estimates. Partly offset by higher expen-
ditures for materials, equipment, project engineering and project management,
the principal savings achieved were in the pipelaying contracts.  The other
savings were in taxes and import duties, freight and other pre-construction
and installation charges. The PCR credits keen competition under prevailing
market conditions, which were apparently not anticipated, for the substantial
cost savings in pipelaying.  Other explanations suggested in the PCR22/ for
the cost underrun are good project management and the adherence to the orig-
inal project schedule, although, of course, the original cost estimate was
unlikely to have anticipated poor project management and the estimate was
based on the original schedule which was actually achieved.
26.       At appraisal, the cost for project engineering and management were
estimated at about US$23 million (including contingencies), based on estimat-
ed 5,000 man-months, unit rates of USS7,100-8,600 per man-month for expatri-
ate personnel and US$1,900 for Thai engineering staff, and a profit fee- of
USS4 million.   Actual total costs were about US$43 million, an increase of
USS20 million or 87%.   Bank supervision reports and the PCR23/ make only
terse references to the causes for the stiff overrun--higher than anticipated
staff input, resulting in part from inadequate communication between the con-
sultants and their client, and rates higher than the Bank had experienced
under similar projects.24/  This raises the question, whether there was a
21/ Bank staff state that 'the aim of the [project] financing was to maxi-
mize export credits, to use commercial finance where export credits are
not possible and where bidding procedures are unacceptable to the Bank,
and to target the Bank loan at about 20%'.  Why this particular target
of Bank participation was chosen is exactly the point the audit is
raising.
22/ PCR, para. 3.13.
23/ PCR, para. 3.14.
24/ Actual man-months and man-month rates have not been recorded.



- 11 -
less costly way to overcome communication problems and whether qualified
consultants with lower fees could have been selected.25/
27.       The savings in total project cost affected mainly US-procured goods
and services, and the share of export credits of total financing was accord-
ingly reduced the most, from US$180 million, as estimated at appraisal, to
about US$125 million. There were also savings under the Bank loan which were
subsequently reallocated to another project item.  Except for the Bank loan,
which was fully disbursed, all other sources of financing were drawn down at
a reduced rate.   PTT internally generated cash, which was not expected at
appraisal,  also contributed to project financing.   The first disbursement
from the Bank loan was held up for 12 months, until the last of three condi-
tions of effectiveness, conclusion of a satisfactory gas sales contract
between PTT and EGAT, was met (PPAM, para. 54). Final disbursement was com-
pleted on schedule.
28.       The physical components of the project were completed on schedule
and according to specifications.   The system was commissioned in Soptember
1981, when the first gas was delivered, and it has been in satisfactory oper-
ation since. Under its own financing, EGAT converted several thermal units
at South Bangkok power station to gas and fitted the Bang Pakong station
(also near Bangkok) with combined cycle units. Two cement companies built an
80-km long pipeline which connects their plants with PTT's pipeline to the
EGAT power stations.  The connector, dimensioned at about 95 MMCFD (without
use of compressors) and available to other industries located nearby, was
built at a cost of about US$60 million and brought into operation in 1983. A
43-km long ADB-financed pipeline (including on-shore compression), linking
Union Oil's Platong field to the main marine pipeline (from Erawan), was
completed in 1984, with a budget of US$135 million.
29.       A  training  program  covering  "a11  aspects  of  PTT's  petroleum
business' was part of the Loan Agreement's project description. Two types of
training programs were implemented under the project: overseas training for
upper and middle management, and on-the-job training of staff in PTT's Office
of Natural Gas (ONG), later merged into PTT's Natural Gas Operations (also
ONG). The latter training was provided in the context of operational assis-
tance  rendered  under  various  consultancy  contracts.    Bank reporting on
implementing the training component was sketchy.   A supervision mission in
late 198126/ reportce the institution by PTT of proper manpower planning
and training for all its activities,  and the PCR states  that  from an
institutional perspective, the Bank required and assisted in establishing
25/ Bank staff explain that they considered the fees unreasonably high for
this kind of work and so advised the Government. The Government appar-
ently disagreed and the Bank did not finance the contract. Also, staff
note that slow decision-making (on the Government's side) contributed to
the high cost overrun.
26/ Supervision Report, October 27, 1981.



- 12 -
appropriate technical, financial and operational training programs .27/ It
would have been desirable that the Bank's requirements and assistance, in the
context of the project under audit, would have manifested themselves in
adequate documentation, detailing training programs, targets, and achieve-
ments.28/ This might have also facilitated an assessment of PTT's institu-
tional development in gas to date.   Queries addressed to the audit mission
left the impression that there is interest in such an assessment.
30.       According to the Loan Agreement,  three sector studies were to be
undertaken:   a gas utilization study, a refinery expansion study and an
energy audit of major industries.   The project contributed its share to the
glut of foreign-financed studies, which in recent years has characterized the
energy sector and which Government planners profess to have difficulty to
deal with.  The Gas Utilization Study was to identify potential and optimal
uses of gas to the year 2000 and to assess the associated investment
needs.29/ The commissioning of the study after, rather than before, commit-
ment and delivery of gas to end users (notably EGAT) appeared justified at
the time.   Long-term gas production of the Gulf was expected to greatly
exceed initial production under the project, and the use of the gas in
accordance with the study's findings was therefore not much in jeopardy. The
Energy Pricing Study (PPAM, para. 5) confirmed that the use of gas as a sub-
stitute for fuel oil in power generation is of high priority. The Gas Utili-
zation Study by consultants was packaged in two phases. Phase I was intended
for identification of the most attractive investments in gas.  Phase II was
to study the identified _nvestments in detail.  An interim report for Phase
T, identifying LPG, certain petrochemicals and ammonia/urea as being of
highest priority, was completed in mid-1981.  The final report was submitted
in early 1983. The Energy Pricing Study covered some of the same ground
again.
31.       The  Refinery  Expansion  Study  by  consultants was  satisfactorily
completed in 1981.  A main objective was the identification of measures for
correcting the supply and demand imbalances  for petroleum products.   The
findings were incorporated into the design of the Bangchak Oil Refinery
Restructuring Project (Loan 2548-TH) under which the refinery configuration
of Thailand will be changed.
32.       The Energy Audit of Major Industries was not undertaken, but the
project description in the Loan Agreement was not amended.  Several studies
with similar focus are being or will be undertaken outside the context of
this project (PPAM, para. 9, footnote 6).
27/  PCR, para. 8.01.
28/  Bank staff state that this project's training program was properly docu-
mented.
29/  Minutes of Understanding, Attachment 5.



- 13-
VI. GAS RESERVES AND PRODUCTION FORECASTS
33.       Since inception of the Second Natural Gas Development  Project,
estimates of the Gulf's gas reserves underwent unexpected, confusing and on
occasion alarming changes.  In 1979, when Loan 1773-TH was made, the Gulf's
economically recoverable proven and probable reserves were confidently and
conservatively-30/ assessed at 7.6 tcf. The assessments, referring to Union
Oil's Erawan and Texas Pacific "B  fields, were performed by independent
reservoir consultants.   Erawan's share of the 7.6 tcf was 1.8 tcf (1.6 tcf
proven and 0.2 tcf probable), against 1.0 tcf tentatively certified in 1978
(PPAM, para. 23).  In early 1982, when Loan 2184-TH was made, optimism and
expectations about Gulf gas climaxed, and the Gulf's economically recoverable
proven and probable reserves were upgraded from 7.6 to 20 tcf.   This time,
the assessments, now also referring to other (than Erawan) Union Oil gas
fields (with 9.2 tcf proven and probable out of the total of 20 tcf), were in
part performed by the same independent reservoir consultants, and in part by
PTT and the IOCs. In 1982, gas production from Erawan started, but was imme-
diately and drastically short of targets.   In response, a reassessment of
Erawan by the same consultants was commissioned, which in mid-1983 produced a
downgrading of that field from 1.8 to 0.6 tcf.31/   On the experience with
Erawan, industry observers substantially revised their estimates of total
Gulf gas reserves downward, and Bank staff went as far as provisionally
estimating the reserves earlier certified at 20 tcf to be only about 4.5
tcf.32/ However, no reserve estimate has been produced since which appears
reliable and on which various analysts and observers  can agree.    Since
mid-1984, as a result of an accelerated drilling program by Union Oil, Erawan
gas production has finally come close to original projections, and expecta-
tions are that this production can be sustained over an extended period.
This would indicate that, after all, Erawan's economically recoverable
reserves are above the 0.6 tcf as established in the latest certification33/
and that the long-term outlook for Gulf gas is not as bleak as could be
assumed in mid-1983.
34.       The downgrading of Erawan, which triggered a downward revision of
other fields, had an impact on the concessionaires, the Government, the Bank
and the reservoir consultants themselves.   It generated doubts about the
adequacy of the field evaluations, caused uncertainty about the future of
Thailand's energy sector and complicated sector policies.  Some uncertainty
lingers on and continues to complicate management of the energy sector.
30/ SAR, para. 2.35.
311 Bank staff report that there was a contractual obligation to use these
consultants and that there was also a mid-1982 independent reservoir
study on behalf of PTT.
32/  Memorandum dated July 13, 1983.   Composition nf the 4.5 tcf:  Erawan,
0.6 tcf; Texas Pacific, 1.2 tcf; other Union Oil fields, 2.7 tcf.
33/ According to Union Oil.



- 14 -
35.       Bank staff, which used the 1979-82 evaluations at face value in two
lending operations (Loans 1773-TH and 2184-TH), and industry sources explain
that the reservoir consultants followed accepted evaluation procedures, and
that highly unusual geological conditions (faulting and fragmentation of
fields) were responsible for the ill-fated assessments.34/ These sources
also explain that only huge budgets for time-consuming gas field appraisals
would have produced the data to give advance notice of the true characteris-
tics of the fields and that such budgets and procedures are normally ruled
out for off-shore gas. This, of course, means that the chosen gas verifica-
tion method had considerable risk of error and that available procedures for
reducing the risk are costly and lengthy.  It follows that the terms  proven
and probable reserves have significant variability of meaning depending on
the context.
36.       The Bank played a fairly passive role in at least the earlier field
evaluations relevant for the two appraisals (Loans 1773-TH and 2184-TH).
Based on available information, the audit concludes that insufficient atten-
tion was paid to the format, potential limitations and interpretation of the
reserve evaluations.   The terms of reference did not lead to a meaningful
discussion of substance and risks of such evaluations, and the Bank did not
undertake a formal review of the evaluations upon completion.35/ Despite a
brief warning, that fields may not always live up to expectations,30/ the
appraisal neither elaborated on assessment risks nor corrected the impression
that classification of reserves as  proven- constitutes a categorical  proof'
of reserves. The reservoir study, certifying proven reserves as proved to a
34/ PCR, para. 3.05, and Bank documents.
35/ According to Bank staff, the Bank participated in the drafting of TORs.
However, the audit was unable to obtain copies of the TORs.  (Also, no
pre-1983 reserve assessment report by consultants could be found in any
of the Bank's document centers.) Bank staff advise that for some time,
energy sector record-keeping was not fully satisfactory. In the view of
Bank staff, the completed reserve assessments, including the 1979 Erawan
assessment financed under Loan SOIO-TH, did not require a formal Bank
review, as the evaluations were performed to industry standards by
reputable consultants.
36/ SAR, para. 2.35.



- 15 -
high degree of certainty for commercial production"37/, did not demonstrate
the economics  of gas recovery specific  to  the Gulf  of  Thailand  or the
locations in question,38/ nor shed light on the notion of certainty, and the
Bank neither challenged this procedure in advance or later or corrected it in
some form or another. A more active and informed Bank role in the design and
review of reserve evaluations would be desirable, whenever possible, in
future natural gas operations.39/
37.       The Bank's attitude towards the earlier evaluations was consistent
with its assumption that total certified proven and probable reserves (7.6
tcf, of which 1.8 tcf for Erawan and 5.8 tcf for Texas Pacific) provided an
adequate safety margin for project viability, as they were about five times
the volume reportedly needed to make the project economic.  This assumption
greatly underestimated the assessments' inherent margin of error. The fields
assessed at appraisal at 7.6 tcf were subsequently rated at only 1.8 tcf (of
which 0.6 tcf for Erawan and 1.2 tcf for Texas Pacific), though this figure
is in dispute and by no means universally accepted, and of these 1.8 tcf only
0.6 tcf (Erawan) are so far covered by a production contract. In the end, it
may have been the other Union Oil fields, which had not been formally
incorporated into the appraisal's 7.6 tcf safety pool (PPAM, pars. 40), which
37? -Estimated Reserves and Deliverability of 'A' Structure Field, Gulf of
Thailand, as of March 1, 1979", page 8. In the follow-up report on the
same field entitled 'Estimated Gas Reserves for Erawan Field, Gulf of
Thailand, as of December 31, 1982", dated July 15, 1983, references to
the degree of certainty (or probability) were dropped. According to the
'Manual of Oil and Gas Terms", Fourth Edition 1976, page 468, reserves
denoted as proven are  probably on the conservative side-.  The 1983
downgrading of reserves is therefore even more surprising. According to
the American Gas Association's publication -Reserves of Crude Oil,
Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas in the United States and Canada and
United States Productive Capacity", Volume 28, 1974, page 103, reserves
are "considered proved that have demonstrated the ability to produce by
either actual production or conclusive formation test'.  It could be
questioned, whether the 1979-82 assessments met the test for classifying
reserves as proven .
38/ Such factors as gas well-head prices, drilling programs and cost and
financial rates of return on exploration and development expenditures,
were not explicitly incorporated into the assessments, even though all
of them and not only the physical presence of gas, determine commercial
volumes of gas.
39/ Bank staff state that the "basis of the reservoir studies" for the Gulf
fields was "entirely normal" and the Bank review of evaluations
entirely  normal  and  satisfactory".    Nonetheless,  Bank  staff  also
acknowledge that lessons were learned from the earlier Erawan experience
and that they put them to use thereafter. The audit reiterates that the
practices, which Bank staff calls "normal", are indeed good candidates
for review and possibly overhaul.



- 16 -
provided the safety margin.   If, at appraisal, total proven and probable
reserves (for Erawan and Texas Pacific) had been 1.8 tcf rather than 7.6 tcf,
or if it had been anticipated, that in the project's first five to ten years
there would be no Texas Pacific contract, the project would likely have been
delayed.  It is apparent, that much care is needed to ensure that a margin of
safety is not illusory.
38.       The Bank's gas production forecasts were loosely tied to the con-
sultants' reserve evaluations, though with incorporation of a further safety
margin, a low implicit gas recovery factor.40/  In 1979, under Loan 1773-TH,
the Bank estimated total Gulf production to rise (from about 200 MMCFD in
1982) to an annual plateau of about  500/600 MMCFD  in  1987-1990,  and  it
implied that no less than this volume, indicating an "intermediate' produc-
tion level, would be sustained to the year 2000.41/   In 1982, under Loan
2184-TH, the Bank revised the estimates for total 1990 Gulf production upward
from about 500/600 MMCFD to close to 800 MMCFD, and it even suggested that
the Gulf fields under consideration could ultimately sustain an annual pro-
duction of over 3,000 MMCFD.42/
39.       Actual 1982 Gulf production (from Erawan) was  130 MMCFD, against
200 MMCFD projected, and the 1984 production (from Erawan and Baanpot), was
also about 200 MMCFD, against 400 MMCFD projected for the year.   Despite
these production results being well below projections and the low 1983 Gulf
reserve estimates, gas analysts until recently expected total Gulf production
40/ For an assumed 7.6 tcf of recoverable gas and production over 20 years,
the recovery factor would have been only 50%.   Conversely,  given a
recovery factor of 100X for proven reserves, as apparently assumed in
the SAR (paras. 1.06 and 2.03), there would have been a factor of lees
than 20% for prob^ble reserves.
41/ Total Gulf and individual field production volumes, which were projected
in the SAR, were not fully consistent (SAR, paras. 2.03-2.07, Annex 1.01
and Annex 3.02), nor is the PCR (paras. 5.01-5.02) fully correct in
stating that the SAR's estimate for the total 1990 Gulf production was
500 MMCFD. While the economic and financial analyses used 500 MMCFD for
1990, presumably to conform to pipeline capacity under free flow condi-
tions, detailed production estimates given in other parts of the SAR
were about 600 MMCFD. The 500 MMCFD were made up of 250 MMCFD from each
Erawan and Texas Pacific.   The 600 MMCFD consisted of about 250 MMCFD
for Erawan, about 200 MMCFD for Texas Pacific and about 150 for not yet
identified fields (presumably also of Union Oil).
42/ Liquified Petroleum Gas Project, President's Report, para. 25 and SAR,
para.  1.07.   Given such volumes of gas,  some  industry analysts  had
visions at the time of gas exports and large-scale downstream invest-
ments in gas-based industries which would transform the Eastern Seaboard
into the industrial power house of Thailand. These visions subsequently
vanished, though lately, hopes have again been expressed for gas exports
after 1990.



- 17 -
to gradually reach some 400-600 MMCFD by 1990 and some 500-800 HMCFD by che
year 2000,43/ results broadly framed by the two appraisal's projections,
though the make-up of these figures could be considered as worrisome: with-
out the not yet contracted Texas Pacific and other not yet identified fields,
which were part of the reestimated totals, the residual Gulf production (from
identified Union Oil fields) would be only 250-400 MMCFD in 1990 and 150-200
MMCFD in the year 2000.  Since the very recent surge in Erawan production,
and on the strength of Union Oil's accelerated drilling program, which will
extend into the next fiscal year, Union Oil's total production from presently
contracted fields (PPAM, para. 40) can now be expected to reach some 500
MMCFD by 1985 and to remain sustainable at this level until about the mid-
nineties.   New already identified Union Oil fields, if timely brought on
stream (under a new contract), could by that time make up for the subsequent
production decline from Union Oil's presently contracted fields and maintain
a production level of some 500 MMCFD to the year 2000.  Depending on avail-
able pipeline capacity, production agreements and gas market, this number
could conceivably be topped off by production from Texas Pacific and other
not-yet-identified  Gulf  fields.44/   While  aggregate  production  from  the
several fields would hence be sufficient to match the appraisal forecasts,
production only from the fields assessed at appraisal and considered as the
basis for the project (Erawan and Texas Pacific) would have been greatly
below the forecasts for those fields. Thus, the final production outcome of
the project is positive, but albeit through cicumstances different from those
assumed at appraisal.  In similar future circumstances, a more comprehensive
analysis of the factors bearing on production seems desirable.  In particu-
lar, more attention might be given in future to gas sales agreements between
concessionaires and the Government, which as much as adequate reserves in the
ground, are a necessary condition for the production of gas.45/
43/ This is the range suggested in the Energy Pricing Study, Stage 1,
Vol. 2.
44/ Prospects for on-shore gas deliveries in the late eighties from the
Korat Basin in the Northeast have also lately improved.   Information
about the scope of commercial quantities is yet inconclusive, but the
reserves are expected to be large enough to significantly affect overall
gas supplies.   Present production on-shore is about 30-40 MMCFD and
being used for electricity generation at an up-country EGAT power plant.
45/ Bank staff consider that not much else could be done by the Bank for
bringing about the desired gas sales agreements other than through vari-
ous post-appraisal interventions by supervision missions, both with Thai
authorities and reservoir consultants.  In the view of the operational
division in the Bank responsible for the project, the IOC in question
was unwilling to come to terms with the Thai Government at a price
acceptable to the Government.   If this be so, there still remains the
question why the IOC maintained or maintains such a posture, whether the
posture could have been anticipated at appraisal, and whether a differ-
ent project design could have resulted in a different posture.



- 18 -
40.       Two gas contracts are currently in force, both with Union Oil---t:,e
first, signed in 1978, for Erawan gas, and the second, signed in 1982, for
gas from Kaphong, Platong, Pladong, Satun and Baanpot.   The first contract
was negotiated against the background of a certified volume of economically
recoverable gas4 / and at the time expected fairly low production cost, with
the full field development costs and risks carried by the oil company.   The
second contract, which was also negotiated before the full extent of the
Erawan situation became apparent, was in substance and format tailored after
the first.47/ Negotiations between Government and Texas Pacific were held
with interruptions since 1978, though differences on some issues were nar-
rowed.   Among the earlier sticking points was the price of gas.  Since the
experience with Erawan, the volume of reserves and the gas recovery cost have
become main issues in negotiations. In light of uncertainties about the vol-
umes of recoverable reserves, more recent Government-Texas Pacific negotia-
tions explored retroactive sharing of exploration cost and the sharing of gas
field development cost and risk. With future Union Oil gas likely to claim
full existing transmission capacity, temporary limitations on Thailand's
absorptive capacity for gas48/ and still unresolved questions about the vol-
ume of economically recoverable reserves, a near-term break-through on Texas
Pacific gas does not appear to be in the offing, although it is difficult to
make a firm assessment at this time.
41.       The on-the-whole slow and in part unsuccessful gas contrac- negoti-
ations were a source of frustration for all parties to the Gulf gas develop-
ment. The Bank influenced the timing, if not content, of the first gas con-
tract by linking it with project financing under Loan 1773-TH, but did not
appear to exercise the same influence over the second (Union Oil) contract
and particularly the negotiations with Texas Pacific.49/ Bank staff have
advised OED that they attempted, on various occasions, to accelerate the pace
and shape the outcome of the negotiations held after 1978, though the Bank
was not a direct party to them. The Bank's role in these negotiations is not
entirely  clear  from  the  documents  available  to  the  audit.    Government
officials, in comments to the audit mission, expressed confidence in the
46/  As noted above (PPAM, para. 23), the certified proven reserves were 1.1
tcf. This certification which was a condition of effectiveness for the
Union Oil-PTT contract and cleared the way for Loan 1773-TH, was later
revised, first upwards and thereafter downwards.
47/  Observers are now puzzled that Union Oil was agreeable to signing the
second contract in the face of developing production problems under the
first contract.
48/  Thailand is agreeable to accepting Union Oil's proposed increased pro-
duction over current levels only after having made arrangements for sale
of the surplus fuel oil, a result of the present refinery configuration.
49/  Bank staff state that they did, however, influence the second Union Oil
contract and the negotiations with Texas Pacific although, of course,
there is still no Texas Pacific contract.



- !' -
Government's own handling of the co.L.act negotiations.   In any case, the
Government has quickly asserted itself as its own independent decision maker
in natural gas development.50/
VII. PROJECT ECONOMICS
42.       From the outset, the project was expected to be immensely profit-
able for the country, and serious risks to the economic viability were per-
ceived as fairly minor. The economic rate of return (ERR) on (public sector)
investments, calculated in the SAR, was in the neighborhood of 50%, which not
only by itself but in relation to the level of investment (US$514 million
projected) was an extraordinarily high figure. Public sector returns of this
order are uncommon for even low levels of investments.
43.       The principal parameters, from which the ERR was derived, were the
gas production volumes, the economic value of gas,51/ the investment
cost5Z/ and the net gas supply cost (the well-head cost net of income taxes,
royalties and gas condensate).   Gas production, as noted above, has fallen
short of projections for the first three years, but can now be expected to be
on target. The economic value of gas and the (net) supply cost were appar-
ently53/ underestimated, as established by the Energy Pricing Study, which
50/  The Government obtained professional guidance in negotiating tactics
from consultants financed under this project. A study of gae purchasing
strategies by the Government was also included in Loan 2184-TH.  This
study has made no progress yet and is reported as pending.  Supervision
Report, Loan 2184-TH, January 9, 1984. The Government is aware of crit-
ical comments made in the international press about the time taken for
reaching agreements with IOCs.  Based on expe-ience gained, Government
officials are confident that the time needed in future negotiations will
be less than in the earlier ones and that the international community
will understand the circumstances under which the past events unfolded.
51/  The economic value of gas was the cost of alternative energy supply.
52/  Pipeline system operating costs are relatively small in the overall cost
equation.
53/  The PCR provides information on the value of gas and the supply cost
only in current terms, without information on the implicit rates of
price inflation in the SAR estimates and PCR reestimates respectively,
thus obscuring a comparison between SAR and PCR in constant terms.



- 20 -
recalculated (for 1983 in 1983 prices) these parameters.54/  Gas was under-
valued even though the value of gas was, incorrectly in the audit's views,
equated with the full opportunity costs of imported fuel oil (an energy
alternative to gas), rather than with the lower opportunity cost of a mix of
fuel oil and lignite.55/  The investment costs were, as also noted earlier,
overestimated.   On balance, the overall structure of benefits and cost, as
projected in the SAR, has remained fairly undisturbed by the parameters'
changes.56/
44.        Primarily because of slow initial gas production, economic benefits
are so far lagging far behind the SAR projections.  The project's economic
impact is therefore still weak, and the foreign exchange savings have so far
been modest. In the long run, over the life of the investments and the gas
reserves, the audit expects the economic return to be about 45-50%57/ which
54/  The SAR, for example, estimated the economic value of gas for 1983, in
1983 prices, at US$4.OO/MMBTU; the well-head cost at US$1.60/MMBTU; the
net supply cost at US$1.00/MMBTU; and the margin of economic value over
the supply cost, accordingly, at USS3.OO/MMBTU.  All these values were
recalculated in the Energy Pricing Study, which estimates the economic
value of gas for the same reference years at USS5.00/MMBTU, if derived
from the fuel oil comparator, and USS4.OO/MMBTU, if derived from the
lignite comparator; the net supply cost, at USS1.70/MMBTU (for Union Oil
gas); and the margin of economic value over the supply cost, accord-
ingly, at between USS3.30/MMBTU (based on fuel oil comparator) and
USS2.30/MMBTU (based on lignite comparator), with a mid-point of
USS2.80/MMBTU.   In contrast to the Energy Pricing Study, the PCR in
para. 5.02 quotes the economic value of gas in current terms. The eco-
nomic value of gas was calculated as the "net-back' of gas in the speci-
fied applications (substitution for fuel oil or lignite, respectively).
The net-back of gas is the value (or cost) of gas for which a gas-based
energy supply has the same cost and energy output characteristics as the
fuel oil or lignite-based supply.   The study's net supply costs are
actually net of the cost of tthc pipeline system.  The quoted US$1.70/
MMBTU are, therefore, a conservative estimate of the net supply cost.
55/  On the assumptions that thie gas produced would (i) be used primarily in
the power sector and (ii) substitute exclusively for fuel oil, the
appraisal equated the value of gas with the opportunity cost of imported
fuel oil. While the first assumption was fully valid, the second was
valid only in part:   without expected access to gas, EGAT might have
accelerated the shift to lower-priced fuels (in particular lignite and
imported coal), rather than to remain strongly exposed to international
oil markets.
56/  Under- and over-estimates partly cancelled each other.
57/  Gas production assumptions:   actual gas production 1982-84; 500 MMCFD
throughout 1985-2000. The assumptions in the PCR (para. 5.02) are, in
some years, slightly below the audit's assumptions.



- 21 -
is the range set by the PCR (about 45%) and the appraisal (about 50%).58/
Sensitivity analyses show that the rates of return would remain high under a
variety of unfavorable project assumptions and that only lasting catastrophic
events (such as lengthy interruptions of gas transmission) could seriously
jeopardize them. The ERR, for example, would not fall below 40%, if the peak
pipeline throughput was only 300 MMCFD (rather than 500 MMCFD), and if
throughput was discontinued by the mid-nineties, falling from an assumed
ceiling of as low as 300 MMCFD in 1990.59/ Further, the ERR would not fall
below 20Z, if the net gas supply cost (through an increase in gas purchase
cost, for example) was as much as doubled, or not below 30%, if lignite
exclusively was the relevant gas comparator.
45.       The project's economic viability is reportedly in sharp contrast to
the financial rates of return (FRR) currently expected on the IOCs' invest-
ments.  No return has yet materialized for Texas Pacific, and the long-term
financial rate of return for Union Oil, according to its own projections,
supposedly will not even reach 15%60/: this return is to a large measure
governed by the cost of developing th_e gas reserves, which are substantially
above the level anticipated when the first and second gas contracts were
negotiated.61/  Total Union Oil investments for the first and second con-
58/  Streams of economic benefits and costs, on which economic returns are
calculated, should be given in project documents in constant terms with
an explicit statement of the base year, to conform to normal practice.
In case of the project under audit, both the SAR and PCR give the
streams in current terms only.   Constant (monetary) values should be
given irrespective of whether there are also reasons to present current
values.
59/  Such a low throughput would only be conceivable if the Union Oil first
and second contract fields were less productive than currently expected
and no third Union Oil contract materialized and negotiations for Texas
Pacific gas failed.   Such a combination of events is most unlikely.
Evacuation of Gulf gai to Surat Thani in the South to feed an EGAT power
station is also under consideration, but only if there is ample supply
of Gulf gas.  The Surat Thani pipeline, which EGAT would be prepared to
finance, would only be dimensioned at 120 MMCFD and thus, in any case,
not carry more than one-fourth of the Erawan pipeline's design capacity.
60/  The method of calculating the financial rate of return could not be
reviewed by the audit.  According to Bank staff, Union Oil's financial
rate of return expected in 1978 was "embarrassingly high", even though
the company kept  its project  economics  -secret".   The recalculated
return was released shortly before the opening of discussions on the
third Union Oil contract.  All this does not alter the fact that Union
Oil states that the return, as projected at present, is unsatisfactory.
61/  The issue of retention of funds payable by PTT, brought ahout by Union
Oil's inability to deliver agreed volumes of gas, has recently been
resolved (PCR, paras. 3.07 and 7.02).



- 22 -
tract fields may reach some US$1.5 billion over the life of the reserves62/
as compared to some US$420 million of investment expenditures for the gas
delivery system financed by the public sector.63/   The company states that
the financial results are unsatisfactory, and it contends that they are dis-
proportionate to its risks and expected country-economic benefits and poten-
tially harmful to the country objective of energy independence.
46.       Given the comfortably high ERRs under even pessimistic  project
assumptions, safeguards against non-viability were never much of an issue.
The more pertinent issue was, whether the project would be designed and
managed to fully use its economic potential.   In the narrow sense of the
investment analysis, Thailand appears to have been very successful.   Union
Oil gas from the first and second contracts is projected to fully use pipe-
line capacity for years to come, and the gas transaction price, negotiated
before the full extent of development cost became apparent, is low.   In a
sectoral sense, which is not fully captured by the project's economic analy-
sis, the question is, whether the project's maximization of benefits is in
the country's long-term interests.   Perceptions of inadequate and unfairly
low financial returns could dampen private sector interest in Thai gas ven-
tures.   The Bank, apparently,  has kept a low profile on the issue.64/
However, IOCs' rewards are an issue which should receive close Bank as well
62/  Based on information provided by Union Oil.  By end 1984, over one-half
of this amount may have been spent.  As the first  and second contract
fields will not be sufficient to feed the pipeline continuously to
capacity, total private sector investments related to the project may
ultimately exceed US$2 billion. According to Government sources, Union
Oil may have invested already USS1.3 billion to date.
63/  Including  the ADB-financed  pipeline  (PPAM,  para.  28), public sector
investments would be about US$555 million.   Public sector downstream
investments, such as LPG plants, raise of course substantially the
public sector's financial commitments related to gas.
64/ The PCR (para. 3.10), In reference to Union Oil, calls the project a
commercial success.  The audit was informed by officials of the company
that Union Oil does not agree with such a conclusion.



- 23 -
as Government attention in their mutual efforts to enlist private sector
assistance for gas exploration and development.65/
47.       The audit has noted the dichotomy in project control arrangements
for containing project cost and ensuring the generation of project benefits.
Project costs were the subject of rigorous and proven management techniques.
The infrastructure design, construction and procurement were entrusted to
internationally experienced firms, consistent with Bank guidelines to promote
efficiency, and the Bank monitored the adequacy of implementation arrange-
ments.   Completion on schedule was made imperative through the take-or-pay
provision (though one could argue that PTT was put into a very tight
position).   In contrast, provisions for generating and sustaining benefits
were neither as rigid nor as comprehensive.  The project did not set condi-
tions clearly designed to produce new field development agreements, nor did
it monitor progress by defined milestones to ensure that gas would be pro-
duced when and in the quantities needed.66/  Only the gas supply contract
for Erawan became an integral part of the project, but not the cont:-act for
Texas Pacific, for which nonetheless in the economic analysis benefits were
65/ Bank staff state that nowadays, Bank attention is being given to IOC's
rewards, including in the Bank's (still ongoing) Energy Assessment for
Thailand, and that the issue of IOC rewards was the subject of project
supervision missions and new project preparation missions. In the con-
text of the project under review, the audit could not clarify in what
way the Bank dealt with this project in the past and how Bank concern
with the issue of the IOC rewards was documented.--According to Govern-
ment sources,, a reexamination of laws and regulations pertaining to
exploration and development of hydrocarbons is underway to ensure that
they are fair and realistic in the current environment and provide
incentives to investors consistent with national interests. Particular
attention is being given to established pricing policies, whose absence
to date, in its judgment, has slowed negotiations with several oil or
gas companies with interests in Thailand.
66/ Bank staff report that the Government refused the concept of defined
milestones on the grounds that the  Petroleum Law  made information
about field development secret.  The audit notes that not all elements
of an IOC's field development plans may be subject to the secrecy provi-
sion of the Thai Petroleum Law and that in important cases of other
Government-Bank lending agreements, amendments to laws by the legisla-
ture have been made.   The audit mission in 1984 had no difficulty
obtaining thorough briefings by Union Oil about details of its future
field development plans.



- 24 -
calculated.67/   The  reliance  on  -self-generating   benefits  seems  to be
paying off under this project, after some initial struggle, but may not be
appropriate for similar future operations.
VIII. GAS PRICING AND PROJECT BENEFICIARIES
48.       Pricing of gas under the PTT-EGAT sales contract and, implicitly,
designation of project beneficiaries were important project issues.   While
taxes and royalties payable by the oil companies, because of the modes of
payment, would directly accrue to the treasury, most benefits would be chan-
neled to or through PTT and EGAT.  Making gas available to EGAT at a price
below that of the chosen fuel comparator (fuel oil), would make the power
sector a project beneficiary. Making gas available to EGAT at a price equal
to the comparator would make PTT the sole beneficiary until the treasury
would claim its share of the gas revenues.68/
49.       To promote energy efficiency, ensure financial soundness of the
borrower (PTT) and generate Government revenues, the Bank, during project
preparation and negotiations, argued forcefully for closely linking the PTT-
EGAT gas transfer price to the chosen comparator (fuel oil). Showing for its
part little enthusiasm for a new fuel whose financial cost would be about as
high as those of the alternative (supposedly fuel oil), EGAT aimed at a gas
transfer price which was noticeably below the price of the (fuel oil) compar-
ator. At project negotiations, the Thai delegation reported69/ that PTT and
EGAT had reached agreement- on a (1978) gas price, which was about 90% of
the (1978) price of fuel oil, and it agreed to propose to the Government the
same pricing formula in future PTT-EGAT transactions. The delegation argued
that the gas price should provide a modest incentive to use gas rather than
fuel oil by setting the gas price slightly below the world fuel oil orice.
The calculation of the gas price requires several possibly contentious
67/ According to the SAR (para. 3.10), the project's net present value (at
10% discount rate, 1978 base year) was US$1,800-1,900 million, if all
projected Union Oil (Erawan) and Texas Pacific gas was taken into
account; and US$1,250 million, if Texas Pacific gas was excluded.
Accordingly, the production agreement for Erawan gas protected an
estimated two-thirds of the project's total net present value
(US$1,800-1,900 million). Of course, there was the subsequent shortfall
in Erawan gas, which will substantially reduce that field's actual
contribution to the net present value.   Because contract negotiations
went slowly, Texas Pacific was  delinked  from the project after the
Decision Meeting:   project processing was not supposed to be held up
until a gas production agreement had been reached.
68/ It was understood that the treasury would, in due time, claim part of
the benefits after they had accrued to PTT.
69/ Minutes of Understanding, para. 9.



- 25 -
assumptions such as the uses to which each fuel will be put, the cost of con-
version from one fuel to the other and the desired level of fuel security.
The undertaking of the Thai delegation satisfied the Bank which prematurely
concluded in the President's Report, that the PTT-EGAT sales agreement would
set the gas price at a level close to 90X of the international fuel
prices.70!    Nonetheless,  to safeguard  the  conclusion,  negotiation  of  a
legally binding PTT-EGAT contract (satisfactory to the Bank) was made a con-
dition of loan effectiveness.
50.       Negotiations between PTT and EGAT were protracted primarily because
of the issue of the fuel oil price parity and resulted in delayed loan effec-
tiveness and interim financing of project investme.rrs at high cost71/.
Ironically, the PTT-EGAT gas sales contract, which was finally signed in
early 1981, made no explicit reference to the 90% fuel oil parity but con-
tained indirect linkage with international (Singapore) fuel oil.   The Bank
raised no objections to the contract terms and implicitly sanctioned the
absence of the parity clause stipulated earlier. Under the Liquified Petro-
leum Gas Project (1982), this time being fully consistent with its most
recent stance, the Bank agreed to a provision, under which natural gas was to
be priced substantially in accordance with the 1981 PTT-EGAT contract.   The
issue of a numerically specific parity was not revived again under the two
SALs (1982 and 1983), though both operations, in non-committing language,
reiterated the need for appropriate energy pricing to promote energy conser-
vation and mobilize resources.
51.       The actual fuel oil parity of gas in 1981 and 1982 has not been
reported. Indications are, it could have been 80% or below. In 1983, it was
about 732.  In 1984, it may have been about the same.72/  Bank staff explain
that the issue of a close fuel oil-gas price parity has not faded, as it
seemingly has, but was somewhat kept in abeyance pending the outcome of a
follow-up study to the Energy Pricing Study.  The follow-up study, now near
completion, reviewed the appropriateness of a specific pricing parity and is
70/ President's Report, para. 61. The report incorrectly stated as a "fact"
that features such as a periodic price adjustment provision to ensure
that the price of gas to EGAT is maintained at a level close to 90Z of
the international fuel price-, -are incorporated into the PTT-EGAT
sales agreement.--The 90% (rather than a 100%) parity was explained with
reference to the 90% parity of 1978, which apparently took account of
EGAT's costs of converting power plants to gas (Minutes of Under-
standing, para. 9).
71/ PCR, paras. 3.15 and 8.03. (The delay in effectiveness and disbursement
was 12 months and not 15 months, as suggested in the PCR.)
72/ According to the PCR, Annex 4 and the Supervision Report for Loan 2184-
TH, January 9, 1984, Annex 7, the 1983 PTT-EGAT transfer price was 1983-
US$3.65/MMBTU.   According to the Energy Pricing Study, the comparable
fuel oil price could have been close to US$5.00/MMBTU (PPAM, footnote
54).



- 26 -
reported as reconfirming the need, for years to come, for pricing EGAT gas at
the full opportunity cost of fuel oil.  Despite falling short on the stated
pricing parity objective, Bank staff express satisfaction at the gas pricing
levels actually achieved so far, as the levels attained could have been even
lower.  In their view, even though the Bank had firm grounds for aiming at a
90% parity, there was merit in restudying the issue in light of more recent
developments.   The audit has the impression that the Bank's position on gas
pricing was ambiguous, and the audit has not found the basis for such a
posture.   A well-reasoned, clear and consistent position would enhance the
effectiveness of the Government-Bank energy policy dialogue.73/
52.       While the project set out to minimize potential financial benefits
to EGAT (and electricity users), it was designed to make PTT's Office of
Natural Gas (ONG), if not PTT itself, within a short time financially power-
ful.   Matching  the enormously high economic return on the public sector
investment, ONG's rates of return on net fixed revalued assets were projected
to rise from 9% in 1982 to 152 in 1984, 24% in 1990, 43% in 1995 and 187% in
2000.74/ Cash balances would develop in a similar fashion. ONG/PTT's finan-
cial fortunes were even more remarkable, as the project contained no specific
provision for transforming ONG revenues into treasury revenues.   Rates of
return and cash balances, as projected in the SAR, are for Thai state enter-
prises extraordinarily high and unheard of, and they were even greatly under-
stated.751 In particular when providing essential public services (power,
water and transport), such enterprises are subject to tight Government
controls, and the companies are frequently under a profit and financing
squeeze. Several incur chronic losses.  While the objective of ONG's finan-
cial prosperity may have seemed desirable to assure its financial health to
safeguard financing of future natural gas investments and to avoid the
73/  Bank staff now emphasize that the actual PTT-EGAT gas price, in their
view, will not fall below 70% of the equivalent fuel oil price, based on
their reading of the PTT-EGAT pricing agreement. Assuming this reading
is correct, the question remains, of course, about the justification for
claiming an  agreed  90% parity in the President's Report.  Bank staff
also informed the audit that in the Government's view, the Bank should
not have insisted at all on the 90Z parity, which to the Government was
* counter-produictive".
74/  SAR, Annex 5.03.
75/  Even though Loan 1773-TH highlighted a 90% gas-fuel oil parity, which
was supposedly agreed at negotiations (PPAM, para. 49), the financial
analyses for ONG were based on a constant 67% parity throughout
1982-2000 (SAR, Annex 3.02, Annex 5.02 and para. 3.07).   The choice of
the 67% parity was unexplained. If the 90% parity had been incorporated
into the SAR's financial analysis, ONG's rates of return on assets and
cash balances would have by far exceeded the already very high results
actually projected.   Also, the (real as opposed to nominal) financial
rate of return for ONG would have been well above the 15% given in the
SAR (para. 5.04).



- 27 -
chronic financial problems of other public sector enterprises, it could
potentially breed excessive investments and inefficient operations, and it
was seemingly inconsistent with the Government's budget situation and the
fiscal objective of the PTT-EGAT gas pricing structure. There have been sad
instances of financial problems with public sector hydrocarbon enterprises in
several other countries. An explicit fiscal instrument for genaerating trea-
sury revenues, rather than reliance on future ad-hoc fiscal arrangements,
could have been a desirable project feature.76/ Primarily on account of
initially poor gas production, the arrival of ONG/PTT's financial prosperity
has been delayed by several years, and little concern about a financially
excessively endowed ONG/PTT is justified at present.   On the contrary, PTT
currentl5 faces a situation of tight liquidity and unsatisfactory profit-
ability. 7/
761 Bank staff advised the audit that the issue of transfer of funds was
addressed in the Liquified Petroleum Project (Loan 2184-TH). Bank staff
are of the opinion that no special fiscal provision was needed under
Loan 1773-TH because the PTT Act requires that all [PTTJ profits be
transferred to the Thai Treasury-. Technically, Bank staff appear to be
incorrect as the PTT Act of B.E. 2521 (A.D. 1978, published in the
Government Gazette, Volume 95, Part 152, dated December 28, 1978),
refers only to that PTT revenue balance as being payable as -State
revenue-, which remains after deduction for operating expenses and
various  commitments  as  appropriate,  e.g.,  ...reserve  funds...  and
investments...".  The creation and use of reserve funds are subject to
the approval of the fIT Board of Directors.  The PTT investment budget
requires approval by the Council of Ministers.   What this means, in
practice, is, for example, illustrated in the Office of the Auditor
General's Report on the Petroleum Authority of Thailand as of September
30, 1983.  In that report, the FY83 net profits of PTT were given as
about Baht 1,066 million, while revenues transferred to the treasury
were about B107 million. It would, however, be correct to say that the
Government, through the PTT Board of Directors (consisting of high-
ranking Government officials) and the Council of Ministers exercises
control over the utilization of PTT net profits.  In this light, the
practical question of importance therefore would be, whether the consid-
erations of fiscal revenues and financial discipline are better served
through the initial transfer of all or substantial parts of net profits
to the treasury, followed subsequently by suitable arrangements for
financing future PTT activities, or through initial retention by PTT of
those parts of the net profits deemed necessary for PTT and the subse-
quent, if any, payments of residual funds to the treasury as 'State
revenues-.
77/ PCR, Chapter VII and Supervision Reports for Loans 1773-TH and 2184-TH.



- 28 -
IX. CONCLUSIONS
53.       The project was conceived as a major building block in the strategy
to shore up the economy against harmful developments in the international oil
markets.  It basically had a two-pronged approach.  Its main strategic com-
ponent was the substitution of external energy supplies (oil) through domes-
tic supplies (gas); and the other component was containment of growth in
(domestic) demand for energy (electricity) through linking domestic gas to
international oil prices. The project further served as a vehicle for devel-
oping institutional expertise in natural gas (through PTT staff training) and
rationalizing various sector policies.
54.       The projqct estimates of specific gas production volumes have not
yet been achieved.  However, natural gas from the Gulf is now on the thres-
hold of living up to expectations, and in combination with other indigenous
energy supplies (lignite and on-shore gas) and demand-based policies, has
moved the country close to a manageable energy-import dependence.78! Insti-
tutional expertise in gas has been broadened, to some extent, through the
project's formal training programs, and presumably to an even greater extent
through the sheer exposure to the project and follow-up operations.  Energy
sector policies were also developed under the project, or where the project
left off, through substitute arrangements.
55.       Experience under the project emphasizes  the  long lead time in
restructuring energy supplies and the need to take long-term energy perspec-
tives. Gulf gas exploration, preceding the project, spanned over a period of
some ten years, and project preparation and implementation, which by any
standard were speedy, took some additional four to, five years. A further two
to three years will have passed until gas production has become significant.
Responding to a potential economic emergency taking shape in the late seven-
ties, the project was only feasible because of the gas exploration, which was
initiated well before the 1973/74 oil events forced a rethinking of energy
policies.
56.       The project was built on a marriage of public and private sector
interests.  The public sector's main contributions to the production of gas
were the fiscal and regulatory frameworks for gas exploration and develop-
ment, the transmission system and market outlets for gas. The private sector
committed its technological know-how and it will, on current projections,
subscribe to the bulk (about four-fifths) of the long-term capital require-
ments for on-shore delivery of gas, which could ultimately reach some US$2.5
billion.  The scope of the Government's financial commitment under the pro-
ject, in conjunction with downstream investments (such as LPG plants), was in
earlier Bank discussions viewed with concern because of other sectors' justi-
fied claims on the country's scarce financial resources.   However, it was
rationalized in light of the IOCs' reluctance to increase their exposure.
78/ The Bank's ongoing Energy Assessment is expected to provide quantitative
energy supply-demand scenarios.



- 29 -
The argument has also been made that Government ownership of the transmission
system would enhance the Government's negotiating position with the IOCs. At
the Government's option, the system would, in principle, be available for gas
from any field, which may not be the case if individual IOCs controlled it.
57.       The project has confirmed the general wisdom that development of
indigenous natural gas can be economically most rewarding. The potential for
economic gain is, of course, in particular high, if gas, as it was here the
case, is to replace high-priced oil products.  Despite possible snags, some
of which have occurred, it would have been difficult to end up with an unfea-
sible project, technically defined as a project with a rate of return below
the opportunity cost of capital.
58.       Given  the  project's  low  propensity  for  economic  failure,  the
challenge was rather to fully use its economic potential.  Considering the
project context only, the project appears to perform very well:  gas produc-
tion, after initial shortfalls, is likely to use up existing transmission
capacity, and the gas well-head cost under existing contracts are favorable
to Thailand.   In the broader context of Thailand's oil and gas sector, the
conclusion is less obvious.  Union Oil, the project's only gas producer at
present, argues that its investments may end up relatively unrewarding, and
this could dampen the private oil and gas sector's interest in Thailand.
PTT, though gearing up for acquiring expertise in gas exploration and devel-
opment, is far from stepping into the IOCs' shoes.  Capital for exploration
and field development could be costly, if not unavailable, if mobilized by
the public sector.
59.       After a 20 years' focus on electric power, the Bank, with this
project, broadened its involvement in Thailand's energy sector. Bank financ-
Ing, by providing informal cover against non-commercial risks, helped set the
stage for private sector funding of gas development, it provided the back-
ground for the Bank's operational assistance to the Government, and it opened
new doors for Government-Bank dialogue on energy policies.   The Bank also
established good relations with Union Oil, a necessary condition for an
effective Bank-private sector cooperation in Thai energy development. Wheth-
er the full scope of Bank financing, US$107 million, was needed to accomplish
all this, is debatable.   Operational assistance was fruitful in the context
of implementation of the physical infrastructure.   Well established proce-
dures for implementing large civil works proved effective in controlling cost
and meeting a tight schedule.   Operational assistance  in sizing up gas
reserves was not fully effective.   On this experience, the Bank may wish to
review procedures for designing and evaluating reserve assessments.   Fore-
casting for gas production could also be improved and sustained generation of
project benefits could be enhanced, under new lending operations, through
increased attention to gas production agreements. Conditions bearing on pro-
duction agreements  could be reviewed in more depth at appraisal,  if not
shaped under the project.   A related issue is the framework of public and
private sector relations. Here, the Bank could more explicitly define a pro-
ject's function and the role the Bank intends to play.  A number of lessons
has also been learned from the project about improvements in presenting



- 30 -
information in project documents.   A main lesson, now being recognized in
current Bank practice, is to routinely discuss project objectives in the SAR
and the President's Report.  In its campaign for economically correct energy
prices, the Bank succumbed to the exigencies of project implementation. Less
ambiguity in the Bank's position could make a Government-Bank policy dialogue
more effective.



ATTACHMENT
- 31 -
COMMENTS FROM THE GOVERNME
ZCZC  DIST 0886 RCA 4006
OEDOD
REF: TCP FCA
01341 03-11 1047A EST
TLX 71248423 248423 WORLDBANK
BT
1-107065G070   03/11/85
ICS IPMIIHA IISS
PMS WASHINGTON DC
WUB6071  TUR062 DSX249  TNX 055 BKTN200126
OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER 48/44 11 1430
MR. YUKINORI WATANABE
DIRECTOR, OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT, THE WORLD BANK,
1818 H STREET N.W. WASHINGTON 20433 U.S.A.
WE FOUND YOUR PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT ON THAILAND
SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1773-TH)
SATISFACTORY AND HAVE NO FURTHER COMMENTS.
PHISIT PAKKASEM
COL 1818  20433 1773



,I-'
1l  
U4
~Aj



- 33 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND: SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1773-TH)
I. Introduction
1.01     The rise in crude oil prices in 1973 prompted the Government of
Thailand to stimulate petroleum exploration, particularly in the offshore
areas. During 1975-76, two important natural gas discoveries resulted, both
in the Gulf of Thailand. Union Oil Company found gas in what was then known
as the "A" structure (now called the Erawan Gas Field), located in the central
portion of the Gulf about 425 km south of the mainland. About the same time,
Texas Pacific Oil Company struck gas, 170 km southeast of the Union Oil
discovery in what is called the "B" structure. Both discoveries were believed
to have tapped reservoirs of sufficient size to be commercially exploitable,
and discussions were begun on marketing the gas. However, serious
negotiations were, from the very beginning, limited to the Union Oil discovery
because it was recognized that the initial phase of natural gas development in
the Gulf would inevitably have to be based on the nearest source of supply,
the Erawan field.
1.02     The Bank's involvement in Thailand's natural gas sector goes back to
mid-1976 when an energy mission visited the country to assess the
possibilities of developing the offshore gas discoveries. It turned out that
the Government was very interested in Bank assistance for the preparation and
financing of such a project, and as a result, a close working relationship
developed. Major results of the Bank's involvement were a market and
feasibility study, the hiring of a consultant to assist in gas sales contract
negotiations, and the establishment of a national gas company, the Natural Gas
Organization of Thailand (NGOT) in March, 1977.
1.03     By late 1977, it became apparent from enco-araging drilling results in
the Union Oil and Texas Pacific areas that there were commercial-size gas
reservoirs in the Gulf. It was also obvious that a project to develop and
utilize the gas was a matter of urgency in view of the country's dependence on
imported oil. The Government consequently requested a Bank loan of $4.9
million to finance the various preliminary activities essential to the
preparation of a natural gas development project. The engineering loan (S10-
TR) was negotiated in February, 1978, but Board presentation was delayed until
July 11, 1978 because Union Oil and NGOT did not meet until then a Bank
condition requiring their prior agreement on a sales contract. The loan
became effective on September 25, 1978 and provided for projoct design and
engineering, preliminary implementation services, financial management
advisors, gas reserves appraisal, consultant services and training. This
prepared the -day in 1979 for a follow-up loan (Loan 1773-TH) which refinanced
the earlier engineering loan and helped finance the pipeline and other
facilities needed to transport, treat and market the natural gas from the
Erawan field. Loan 1773 was approved on December 11, 1979 but did not become
effective until March 27, 1981 when the Electricity Generating Authority of
Thailand (EGAT) signed a contract to purchase the Erawan gas, a condition of
loan effectiveness. The delay in effectiveness resulted from protracted
negotiations over the price EGAT would pay for the gas.



- 34 -
1.04     This report is based on reports and documents in the Bank's files and
on the findings of a Bank mission that visited Thailand in January 1983 and on
information furnished by the Borrower. It covers the initial engineering
project (Loan S-10-TH) and the follow-up development project (Loan 1773-TH).
II. Project Preparation and Appraisal
2.01     A condition of the gas sales contract was that a minimum of 1.0
trillion (million million) cubic feet (tcf) of proven recoverable reserves
would be established and certified by an independent reservoir evaluation
before the agreement became operative. This required Union Oil to drill four
more appraisal wells, in addition to three already drilled and, on this basis,
an independent reservoir consultant's estimate of 1.1 tcf of proven and 0.4
tcf probable was accepted by both parties as the legal reserves of the
field. Union Oil subsequently drilled an additional two appraisal wells on
the flanks of the Erawan structure; this raised the estimated proven reserves
to 1.58 tcf. At the same time Union was drilling and discovering a number of
gas bearing structures which substantially strengthened project confidence.
The Erawan gas sales contract allowed both parties 36 months, after acceptance
of the gas reserves estimate, to prepare their respective facilities for
producing, transporting and marketing the gas. However, an earlier date of
September 15, 1981 was subsequently agreed on as the date when gas sales would
begin.
2.02     Preparation work on the project proceeded in parallel with further
appraisal drilling and reservoir evaluation in Erawan and elsewhere, and
project appraisal took place during March, 1979. On July 15, 1979, the
Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT), established December 28, 1978, took
over NGOT and Its entire staff. This necessitated a post-appraisal and caused
Board presentation to be delayed until December 11, 1979. The project was
defined to include the following principa. .:omponents:
(a)  a 34-inch offshore buried pipeline from Union Oil's production
platform to landfall, approximately 425 km long;
(b)  a 34-inch onshore pipeline from landfall to a terminal a short
distance inland, and a 28-inch buried pipeline, approximately
170km, to the EGAT power stations at Bang Pakong and South
Bangkok;
(c)  infrastructure, comprising metering, hydrocarbon dewpoint
control, communications, supervisory control, telemetry,
maintenance and office staff support facilities at the terminal
and an operations' center at Chon Burl; and
(d) technical assistance, project management, consultancy, training
and studies.



- 35 -
III. Implementation
Background
3.01     PTT was responsible for implementing the project, primarily through
its Office of Natural Gas (ONG). For its engineering consultant PTT appointed
one of the major US engineering firms whose assignment included engineering,
project and construction management, training and start-up. Because of the
size and complexity of the project and PTT's inexperience, the modus operandi
for carrying out the project placed responsibility for initiating and
executing project implementation activities on the engineering consultant and
the normal client supervisory and approval responsibilities on PTT.
3.02     The gas sales agreement with Union Oil included take or pay
provisions which could have amounted to US$500,000 per day if PTT was not
prepared to take delivery on the contract date. This made it crucial to
complete the project in time to allow "running-in" operations to begin by
September 1, 1981 and to start contract sales on September 15, 1981. The
completion schedule was met but it took great effort to do so. Sufficient
time was allowed in the schedule to complete construction and commissioning
at, what was then thought to be, an acceptable pace. However, all the slack
in the schedule was eventually lost because of the procurement procedure which
had resulted in slow decision and approval action by PTT and its board. It
ultimately became necessary to resort to crash program tactics to finish the
project on schedule. The fact that the project was completed on time speaks
well for all those connected with its implementation, especially the
engineering consultant who bore the brunt of the responsibility for expediting
and keeping critical activities on schedule.
3.03     The construction phase proceeded smoothly except for problems
normally encountered on a project of this nature. Two of the more serious
were connected with the installation of the pipeline. On the offshore
portion, several leaks were discovered in a section of the pipeline already
underwater, and on the land portion which traverses a rice paddy area,
difficulty was experienced in maintaining the pipe at the proper burial
depth. Neither of these problems was sufficiently serious to threaten the
project schedule.
3.04     Union Oil's development program also proceeded according to plan
during the installation of offshore structures and drilling operations, but
ran into serious problems from then on. The first gas delivery started on
schedule with 15 weils completed. However, Union Oil soon discovered that
several wells were showing unusually steep pressure declines and could not
maintain the required flow rates. The situation became further exacerbated by
the failure of the dual completion packers due to higher bottom hole
temperatures than had been anticipated. Despite the replacement of the
packers with ones suitable for the temperature and other efforts to increase
production, the rate for FY82 only averaged about 120 MMCFD. According to the
sales contract, the daily contract quantity (DCQ) should have been increased
to 250 MMCFD in July 1982. However, the contract stipulates that Union Oil's
gas delivery obligation is limited to 1/6,000 of the field's recoverable
reserves, and it was on this point that Union Oil based its claim that the DCQ
agreed to in the sales contract could not be sustained.



- 36 -
Gas Reserves and Deliveries
3.05      Development drilling and three dimensional seismic data accumulated
since the reserves evaluation suggest that the original estimate1 ight be
overly optimistic. The fault blocks appear to be more numerous - than
expected and there is evidence that the producing zone consists of many
different reservoirs separated by water bearing strata. Individual sands
appear to have different gas/water contacts with many lateral
discontinuities. Union oil, on June 1, 1982, submitted a report to PTT
downgrading the remaining proven and probable reserves of Erawan to 0.489 and
0.197 tcf, respectively, with a corresponding reduction in DCQ to 82-114
MMCFD. On the other hand, an independent reservoir study on behalf of PTT in
August 1982 estimated remaining proven reserves at 1.353 tcf with an
equivalent DCQ of 225 MMCFD.
3.06      In view of the conflicting reserve estimates, and in accordance with
the gas purchase agreement, PTT and Union Oil commissioned the consultant who
established the original legal reserves to carry out a reevaluation based on
all data existing on December 31, 1982. The results were reported on July 15,
1983 and showed the following reserve estimates:
Dan  Reserves a/as of Deeer 31, 1982
A. Proved Develped Reserves
ND. of        Qmjlative        P e          Ultilmte
Reseryoirs    Pcoducticn     Reserves       RecDvery
Reserve Deteinatic e thod)                Cbs    Liqud  Gas  I;lquid  Gs   Liquid
Prod. Reservoirs (Materal
Balance)                      31      21.6      1.2  61.6    2.6   83.2     3.8
Prod. Reseoirs (Rate/Thme)        9      19.0      0.5  16.7    0.9   35.7     1.4
Pmd. Reservctrs (Depleted)       55      17.2      0.8    -      -    17.2    0.8
Sub-total           95      57.8      2.5  78.3    3.5  136.1      6.0
No-Prod. Reservoirs (Vol.)      1CO       -        -  127.3    4.8  127.3    4.8
Total Developed    195      57.8      2.5 205.6    8.3  263.      10.8
B. Ikveloped Beserves
48 Icc. @ 7.6 bcf and
309,000 Bbls                            -        -  365.0  i4.8  365.0    14.8
Total A + B                 57.8      2.5 570.6   23.1  628.4   25.6
a/  Gas measured in billion cu. ft. (bcf) @ 14.7 psia and 60 F;
1.0 bef = 0.001 tcf (trilliao cu. ft.) Liquid (Condensate)
masured in millions of US Barrels (BhLs).
1/ And consequently containing smaller patches of gas per well.



- 37 -
These results supported Union Oil's claim that gas reserves and the
corresponding delivery rates should be reduced from the levels originally
agreed to. PTT refused to accept the revised reserves claiming that the
evaluation was incomplete because an appropriate analysis was not made of the
development and production costs to Union Oil in determining the maximum
reserves which could be recovered at the contract price. Such a detailed
economic analysis was not carried out. However, the consultants could only
base the evaluation on data and instructions received from the client, in this
case PTT and Union Oil jointly. Without specific instructions to do
otherwise, the consultant interpreted the data and arrived at the reserves
estimate in accordance with standard practices in the industry and Union Oil's
development program. Given the revised representation of the reservoir's
production zones by the 3-D seismic survey and the production history, the
downgrading of the original recoverable reserves appears to be technically
justified.
3.07     During the ensuing dispute over reserves and delivery shortfalls, PTT
withheld approximately 20X of the contract price, based on the reduced price
it would have paid for the higher sales volumes it should have been
receiving. In June, 1984 a settlement was reached and the contract amended to
reflect the existing reservoir performance (see para. 7.02 for further
details).
3.08     In the meantime, Union Oil has continued to develop the Erawan
field. By end 1983, 63 wells from 7 platforms were in production, and by
early 1984 the 8th platform was installed for additional drilling. During
1983 Union Oil was able to maintain an average production rate of about 140
MMCFD of Erawan gas by puttir.g new wells into production and by adding
compression when reservoir pressure decline made free flow impossible.
Production has stabilized and should be sustainable for several years until
after the main supplies from the next contract come on stream.
3.09     The performance of Erawan field raises the question of whether a more
conservative approach should have been taken in evaluating the field's
production capacity and economically recoverable reserves. In fact, every
measure was taken to do so except extended production testing (para. 3.18).
Achievement of Objectives
3.10     PTT achieved its main objective of completing the project in time and
within the budget, to fulfill its contract commitments, and similarly Union
Oil completed the production facilities to deliver the contract gas. Proper
steps were taken to minimize risk. The reservoir did not live up to
expectations, and as a result gas supplies from the field had to be scaled
down to about two-thirds of the original goal. Nevertheless, the project has
proved to be a commercial and economic success, even for Union Oil whose
development and production costs greatly exceed original estimates. A second
sales contract was entered into by PTT and Union Oil in May 1982 for the



- 38 -
supply of 150 MMCFD of gas from five fielda/  in the neighborhood of Erawan
with provisions to increase the supply to 200-300 MMCFD in 1986 and 400 MMCFD
in 1987, depending on reservoir performance. A contract amendment was signed
in April 1983 advancing production from Baanpot (one of the five neighboring
fields). Gas delivery from this field started on October 31, 1983 at the rate
of 12 MMCFD and reached 20 MMCFD by end 1983 and is expected to reach 40-50
MMCFD, the maximum expected rate, by mid-1984. With the new Union Oil
supplies coming on stream, PTT can expl7t by mid-1985 gas deliveries in the
range of the pipeline design capacity__
3.11     At project appraisal it was envisaged that 250 MMCFD of gas would be
supplied by Union Oil and 250 MMCFD from the Texas Pacific (TP) field about
170 km southeast of Union Oil's central production platform. The Platong and
Kaphong fields had been established and a number of other discoveries made.
It was projeLted at the time that TP gas would be available by late 1983.
However, so far TP has been unsuccessful in negotiating a sales contract with
PTT, and other attempts to market the gas, such as through a joint venture
with the Government or LNG export ventures, have also met with no success. At
last report (February 1984) TP was negotiating a gas price with the newly
created Committee for Negotiations on Petroleum Joint Ventures and Pricing
headed by a minister fr"m the prime minister's office. At the same time, both
parties recognize the cisadvantage of the existing form of contract and are
actively considering "n alternative approach suggested by the Bank. Both
sides have given priority to reaching an early conclusion.
Project Costs and Financing
3.12     The project cost is US$423 million ($76 million local and $347
million foreign) including interest during construction. Union Oil's
estimated expenditures were about $300 million, but by end 1983 the company
spent an additional US$300 million for platforms, wells and workovers not
originally anticipated. In addition, Union Oil will have to make a
substantial investment to produce the remaining recoverable reserves from
Erawan and to develop the neighboring five fields under contract.
3.13     Annex I compares the appraisal cost estimate with actual costs.
There was a substantial underrun of $91 million, about 18% of the original
$514 million total estimated cost. The main contributions to the underrun
were made by contracts, freight, taxes and import duties and the unused
contingency funds, the latter amounting to $64 million (70%) of the
underrun. One of the main causes for the underrun was the fact that the three
major pipeline contract costs were substantially below estimates as a result
of prevailing market conditions and keen competition for these contracts. A
share of the underrun can probably also be credited to good project management
and to finishing the project on schedule.
1/ Platong, Pladang, North Pladong, Satun and Baanpot. A sixth field,
Kaphong, would be used if a production permit were granted.
2/ Pipeline throughput can be expanded to about 700 MMCFD through the
addition of compressor stations.



- 39 -
3.14     The cost of project engineering and management services exceeded the
estimate by $22 million, about 100l. Unanticipated heavy staffing of
expatriate manpower to keep the project on schedule accounts for some of the
overrun. In addition, the consultant's fees, although consistent with those
charged its other clients, were much higher than the Bank expected from
experience with similar project assignments.
3.15     A summary of the project financing is set out below:
Current
Current         Estimate/
Appraisal        Estimate        Appraisal (%)
IBRD                         107             107              100
Export Credits               180             125               69
Commercial Banks             150             125               83
Government                    77              51               66
Internal Cash                -                15
Total                  514             423                82
Export credits (U.S., Japan) funded a significantly smaller proportion of the
project costs than the appraisal estimate. In addition to cost underrun, this
was mainly because the goods and services procured from the U.S. fell short of
expectations, resulting in reduced drawdown ($41 million) from the U.S.
Export-Import Bank which had committed to extend a $75 million crt t for the
project. Delayed effectiveness of IBRD loan and U.S. Export Credit
necessitated bridge financings from commercial banks during the project
construction period. Notwithstanding a project cost underrun, the IBRD loan
was fully utilized. This was the result of a reallocation of Bank loan in
1981 to cover an additional item, namely pipe coating, in order to help
alleviate PTT's liquidity problem then. ONG's funds flow during the project
construction period is further discussed in para. 7.04. The unexpected
contribution of PTT's internal cash helped to retire the bridge financing in
FY82. The Government has not yet paid its equity contribution equivalent to
the import duties and taxes. PTT submitted a formal request for this in
January 1984. This issue has been raised by the Bank with the Ministry of
Finance and will be followed up by supervision missions under the LPG project
(para. 7.09).
Disbursements
3.16     Annex 2 presents the actual Bank disbursement against the loan along
with the original disbursement schedule. The 15-month delay in disbursement
was due to late compliance with a condition of effectiveness in the Loan
Agreement, namely the conclusion of a satisfactory gas sales agreement between
PTT and EGAT. Once it started, disbursement closely followed the original
schedule which can be considered to represent a typical profile for this type
of project.



- 40 -
Use and Performance of Consultants
3.17     PTT and its predecessor, NGOT, made extensive use of consultants in
preparing and implementing the project. All together PTT employed 13
different consultants to assist in various aspects of project implementation,
training and studies. The project also included provisions for carrying out
energy convervation studies covering such aspects as an energy audit, an
investment program for energy savings, policies for energy demand management
and future investments in energy conservation, including non-conventional
sources. GOT subsequently arranged other financing for these related
activities. At the time of preparing this report the following studies were
either completed or in progress: ti) an energy audit by the National Energy
Administration (NEA) and the Asian Development Bank; (ii) an energy
conversation (industrial incentives) study by NEA agreed upon under the Bank's
Second Structural Adjustment Loan; and (iii) a transport energy conservation
study by the Ministry of Communications. An energy conservation center
financed by private industry and also agreed upon under the Bank's SAL was in
progress of being established. The Bank has been following these studies and,
except for late execution, finds them satisfactory.
3.18     According to PTT and Bank staff observations all consultants
pprformed their assignment in a generally satisfactory manner, but as
explained in para. 3.06, PTT was not entirely satisfied with the reservoir
reevaluation it commissioned jointly with Union Oil. The performance of
Erawan field raises the question of whether a more conservative approach
should have been taken in evaluating the field's production capacity and
economically recoverable reserves. In fact, every measure was taken to do so
except extended production testing. With onshore gas reserves a certain
number of the wells could have been subjected to an extended production test,
but expense normally rules this out for offshore operations. For example, rig
hire and operating expenses at the time of the drilling were probably in the
$40,000-60,000 per day range. At $50,000 per day to test six wells (not a
large number considering the size and nature of the field) for 30 days each
would cost $9 million. In these circumstances reliance had to be placed on a
wider judgement, namely, such considerations as the fact that: (i) at the
time of appraisal four gas fields had been proven along with some additional
discoveries and all of these could be served by the pipeline; (ii) an
experienced oil company was willing to commit over $300 million, (iii) one of
the most experienced reservoir consultant was engaged for the field evaluation
and initial economically recoverable reserves were based on the consultant's
field development plan and cost; and (iv) all gas users would have dual firing
capability in case there should be a problem with gas supply. Moreover, the
proven and probable reserves estimated at the time were about five times the
level needed to make the project economic.
Procurement and Performance of Contractors
3.19     Project procurement comprised 15 contracts for services and ibrks and
28 contracts for the purchase of materials and equipment. Except for normal
claim adjustments on completion of a contract, PTT reports no undue problems
with contractor performance, and none have been observed by Bank staff who
have supervised the project.



- 41 -
IV. Operating Performance
4.01     PMT reported that all its equipment and facilities were operating
satisfactorily. An inspection of the project area showed excellent
housekeeping and care of equipment. All project facilities were operated
entirely by PTT personnel who were alert and knowledgeable and gave every
indication of being well trained. As a precautionary measure, PTT appointed
two firms to assist during the initial operating stages: one to provide
assistance with maintenance procedures and preparation of plans for future
maintenance of the pipeline and the other as s indby assistance in the event
of an operating failure and as a source of practical knowledge to supplement
the experience of PTT's personnel.
4.02     PTT is operating the facilities with a strong emphasis on safety.
Entry into operating areas is restricted to authorized persons, and "no
smoking" and "hard-hat" regulations are strictly enforced. There is
satisfactory provision for fire detection and fire fighting and personnel are
trained in emergency procedures.
4.03     The only operating problem of any significance occurred in August
1982 when a sudden pressure drop developed in the offshore portion of the
pipeline as a result of condensate build-up. This condition was due to the
fact that at the existing low flow rates the gas had insufficient velocity to
entrain and sweep along the condensate forming in the pipeline. Because of
the large accumulated volume, the pipeline had to be shut down before the
condensate could be removed. Since then, frequent pigging (every three weeks)
has allowed continuous operation. As pipeline throughput increases condensate
accumulation will become less and less a problem, particularly since all gas
supplies except from Erawan will be required to have a hydrocarbon dewpoint
sufficiently low to prevent condensation in the pipeline. To ensure
continuous gas flow at all possible operating conditions, consideration is
being given to the installation of a back-up slug catcher as part of the
Liquefied Petroleum Gas Project (Loan 2184-TH).
V. Economic Performance
Benefit Streams
5.01     Project economics and finance were appraised both on already
contracted supplies and assuming reasonably prompt completion of ongoing
negotiations. In addition, the benefits of gas supply from existing contracts
only were considered in order to estimate the intermediate position of the
project return. At the time of project appraisal, the only contract in
existence was gas supply from Union's Erawan field. PTT has since then
concluded a further contract with Union Oil for gas supply from a group of
five other fields. The current estimate of total gas production from existing
contracts with Union exceeds the appraisal estimate. However, most of the gas
from the additional fields will not come on stream until 1985, one year later
than assumed at appraisal. Furthermore, the negotiations between PTT and
Texas Pacific (TP) for a gas sales contract, already identified at the time of
appraisal, are still incomplete, and the current estimate of gas supply from
TP is seven years behind the appraisal forecast. As a result, current
estimate of gas production falls short of the appraisal estimate for the first
nine years of the pipeline operations (1982-90), but is expected to reach the



- 42 -
appraisal estimate of 500 MMCFD in 1991. However, the life of Erawan field is
currently estimated to be shorter than the appraisal estimate. As a result,
from 1995 onward, gas supply is expected to be from Union second contract and
TP only, and would again fall below the free flow capacity of the pipeling
(500 MMCFD). In estimating the value of natural gas in Thailand for the
quantities under consideration, fuel oil is the relevant comparator. While
the international price of fuel oil was higher than the appraisal forecast in
FY82, the price of oil has since fallen and the current estimate of gas value
is lower than anticipated over the period FYs83-88. From FY89 onward, the
current estimate of gas value is expected to be higher than the appraisal
estimate, reflecting higher real growth of fuel oil prices.
5.02     Comparisons between the appraisal and cYrrent estimates of gas
production and value are summarized as follows:1.
FY82    FY84    FY86       FY88    FY90    FY92
Production (MMCFD)
Appraisal - Main case
Union                 200      250      250      250      250      250
TP                     -       150      200      250      250      250
Total            2r00     400     450       500      500     500
Current Estimate
Union                 120      200      495      465      385      385
TP                     -        -        -         -       -       115
Total            120      200     495       465      385     500
Gas Value ($/MMBTU)
(In current terms)
Appraisal                   3.8     4.3      5.0       5.7     6.5       7.4
Current Estimate            4.3     3.9      4.4       5.6     6.8       8.3
Cost Streams
5.03     Actual project costs of $331 million (excluding taxes and import
duties) represents a 21Z underrun against the appraisal estimate of $417
million. However, the current estimate of the costs of gas is higher than the
appraisal forecast for gas from Erawan; which, to some extent, reflects higher
inflation. On the other hand, based on the assumption that TP gas cost is the
same as that of Union second contract, the current estimate of TP gas cost is
lower than the appraisal estimate.  The cost of gas is summarized below.
1/ The gas volumes shown have different calorific (Btu) content for Union and
TP. The SAR adjusted to a standard 1,000 Btu/cu ft value.



- 43 -
(in current terms)
FY82    FY84    FY86      FY88    FY90    FY92
Gas Cost ($/MMBTU)
Erawan
Appraisal             1.6     1.8      2.0      2.3      2.6      3.0
Current estimate      2.5     2.5      2.5      2.8      3.1      3.4
Second Union Contract
Appraisal              -       -        -        -        -       -
Current estimate       -       -       2.4      3.0      3.3      3.5
Texas Pacific
Appraisal              -      2.1      2.4      2.8      3.2      3.6
Current estimate       -       -        -        -       3.4      3.5
Economic Rate of Return
5.04     The detailed economic analysis based on gas supply from both Union
Oil and Texas Pacific is presented in Annex 3. Comparisons between appraisal
and current estimates are sUmmarized below:
Appraisal         Current Estimate
Economic rate of return (Z) in
real terms
Union alone                                    53                     44
Union & Texas Pacific                          48                     44
Net Present Value ($ million)
at 10% discount
Union alone                                 1,250                  1,029
Union & Texas Pacific                       1.800                  1,214
5.05     Notwithstanding a project cost underrun, the current estimates of the
economic rate of return and the net present value of the project are lower
than the appraisal forecast. This is mainly because of the lower margin
between the value and cost of gas, and the benefits foregone by gas supply
shortfall during the initial years of pipeline operations. Nevertheless, the
current estimate of the project return remains attractive.



- 44 -
VI. Institutional Performance
Background
6.01     The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) is a state enterprise
established in December, 1978 to engage in and promote the petroleum
business. It is under the jtrrisdiction of the Ministry of Industry. At
present, PTT operates as a single legal entity with no subsidiaries. It has
three major operational units, namely the natural gas operations (ONG), oil
marketing operations (ODS) and refinery.
6.02     Implementation of the project was transferred to PTT when it took
over the Natural Gas Organization of Thailand (NGOT) in July 1979. ONG was
responsible for the construction of the natural gas pipeline and is now
charged with its operation. It will also be responsible for implementing and
operating the gas separation plant (Loan 2184-TH). The major part of the oil
marketing operations were transferred from the Oil Fuel Organization (OFO) to
PTT in September, 1979, and the balance transferred from the Summit
Corporation in early 1981. The Bangchak refinery was formerly leased to the
Summit Corporation and taken back by the Government in early 1981.  Bangchak
is owned and operated by the Ministry of Defense. PTT is responsible for the
acquisition of oil, distribution of petroleum products and financial
management of the refinery. Bangchak has separate books of accounts and its
financial statements are not consolidated with PTT, but the PTT role with
Bangchak has a significant effect on PTT's financial situation. Under a joint
venture agreement for the expansion of TORC refinery, PTT holds 49Z of the
shares of the IYJRC refinery. In addition, PTT will hold 25% of the shares in
a joint venture agreement with Shell to develop the Sirikit Oilfield.
Organization and Management
6.03     PTT's Board of Directors is appointed by the Council of Ministers.
The Board is made up of senior members of the Civil Service and includes a
chairman and eleven other directors. The Governor of PTT, who is its chief
executive officer, is a Director and Secretary of the Board. PTT also has an
executive committee chaired by a member of the main Board. In view of the
rapid growth in its activities, PTT underwent a major reorganization in mid-
1981. Under the Governor, there are now six Deputy Governors responsible for
Technical and Planning, Natural Gas Operations, Marketing, Logistics and
Refining, Finance and Administration, and Special Affairs. In addition, there
are two Assistant Governors in charge of Finance and Refining.
Staffing and Training
6.04     PTT has at present a staff of about 2,700, of which some 400 are
under the Natural Gas Operations. PTT's top management is experienced in
business and management but has only limited experience in the petroleum
industry. The middle management is generally young, keen and well educated
but in many cases with relatively little experience. Under the provisions of
the project, theoretical and on-the-job training has been given for the
natural gas operations and in accounting and finance. In addition, training
is planned for the operation of the gas separation plant and LPG distribution,
as provided under the LPG project. Apart from specific instances associated
with new projects, PTT's future needs are practical, on-the-job experiences
rather than making much use of further training courses.



- 45 -
Management Information System
6.05     During the initial phase of project implementation, there appeared to
be inadequacy in the accounting system at ONG (formerly NGOT) particularly
with respect to documentation of payments. In addition, the accounting system
at ODS (formerly OFO) was weak, especially In regards to accounts receivable,
billing and the control system.
6.06     Under the provisions of the project, competent financial consultants
were engaged to assist PTT in the maintenance of its accounts and in internal
auditing. Specifically, the consultants assisted ONG to strengthen its
accounting system, design a management information system as well as a
budgetary control system, taking account of the expanding activities of
natural gas operations. In addition, the consultants assisted ODS to
strengthen its accounting and control system and undertake verification of
fixed assets at ODS. Furthermore, the necessary staff training was provided
with the assistance of consultants. As a result, there has heen a marked
improvement in PTT's management reporting system. With respect to internal
control, the consultants have, until recently undertaken the internal auditing
of PTT as an interim step until the company can build up its own staff to
perform the task. However, the service of the consultants was discontinued in
1983 when PTT decided that it could implement the management reporting system
on its own. Since the internal audit function at PTT has not as yet been
staffed, internal auditing is no longer undertaken as a part of its internal
control. This is not in compliance with the loan condition provided under the
Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) project. The issue has been raised with PTT
management, which has assured the Bank that is actively seeking suitable
consultants. This will be followed up by future supervision missions for the
LPG Project.
VII. Financial Performance
7.01     At the time of appraisal, the imminent transfer of OFO was undecided
and the transfer of Bangchak refinery was even further into the future. No
review of OFO, as a military establishment, was feasible and  for prc-tical
purposes, the appraisal only took account of ONG's financial forecast.
Accordingly, the comparison between appraisal and actual performance has been
limited to ONG only. ONG's comparative income statements, funds flow
statements and baluLce sheets are presented in Annex 4.
Revenue Position
7.02     As PTT's gas purchase/sales contracts with Union Oil and EGAT provide
for a lower price of gas when volume increases, the gas supply shortfall has
led PTT into a dispute with both Union Oil and EGAT regarding the purchase/
sales price of gas. During FYs 83 and 84, PTT made payment on about 80% of
Union Oil's invoiced amount. The dispute over the gas supply shortfall was
settled between Union Oil and PTT in June 1984. According to the agreement on
the settlement, PTT would make cash payment to the concessionaires (Union Oil/
Seapec) in the amount of Baht 654 million (US$28 million), representing 40% of
the disputed amount (US$61.0 million) plus interest. In addition, in order to
provide the concessionaires with an incentive to produce more gas from the
Erawan field, PTT will provide an "incentive gas price" for all gas volumes
produced in excess of 54,750 MMCF (150 MMCFD) in any contract year.  In



- 46 -
effect, this would mean that instead of four tiers of gas prices which would
decrease with increased volume under the original contract, the settlement
calls for the price of gas to remain flat after an average of 150 MCFD has
been reached. After reaching an agreement with Union Oil on the settlement,
PTT has started to negotiate with EGAT on the same issue. The renegotiation
between PTT and EGAT on the gas sales/purchase contract (which is provided
under the present contract terms) will not start until after an agreement has
been reached between the two state enterprises on the gas shortfall dispute.
7.03     Notwithstanding the gas supply shortfall, ONG's operating income in
FY82 was in line with the appraisal estimate. For its first year of
operation, ONG reported income before interest of $46 million, as compared
against the appraisal estimate of $42 million. The negative impact of gas
supply shortfall was essentially offset by the higher selling price of gas and
the profits from condensate sales which were not known and consequently not
included in the appraisal estimate. However, ONG's income after interest of
$5 million was significantly less than the appraisal estimate of $8 million on
account of higher than anticipated interest rates which in turn led to higher
interest expense. Nonetheless, ONG's operating ratio of 0.81 which was close
to the appraisal estimate of 0.78. ONG's return on revalued net fixed assets
of 12% was slightly higher than the appraisal forecast of 9% mainly because
the project cost underrun has resulted in a significantly lower asset base
than anticipated.
7.04     ONG's profitability in FY83 fell considerably below the appraisal
forecast mainly because of the marked shortfall (45%) in gas supply.
Operating income before interest expense was $51 million as compared against
the appraisal estimate of $77 million. However,actual interest expense of $28
million compared favorably with the appraisal estimate of $48 milion
primarily as a result of the lower financing need. After the inclusion of
foreign exchange loss ($8 million), ONG reported net income of $15 million as
compared against the forecasted $29 million in FY83. Its operating ratio of
0.83 was considerably higher than expected (0.70), and its return on revalued
net fixed assets was 13% as compared against the appraisal estimate of 15%.
7.05     On a DCF basis, the financial rate of return over the life of the
project is currently estimated to be the same as the appraisal estimate of 15%
(in real terms). The adverse impact of gas supply shortfall is offset by the
project cost underrun and higher profit margin than anticipated (Annex 4).



- 47 -
Funds Flow
7.06     ONG's funds flow over FYs79-83 are  summarized as follows:
FYs 79-83                    (In US$ million)
Appraisal       Z       Actual       Z
Internal Cash generation                  174         26       139        26
Loans /a                                  412         62       358         66
Government Contributions                   77         12         2        -
Other Liabilities                                    -          44          8
Total Sources                        663       100        545       100
Capital expenditures                      482         73       373        69
Debt Service                              112         18       136         25
Changes in Working Capital                 69          9       (34)        (6)
Total Uses                           663       100        543       100
/a   Includes long-term loan and net short-term loan.
7.07     ONG's total financing requirements over the last five years were
substantially below the appraisal estimate as a result of the cost savings of
the pipeline project. However, borrowings and other liabilities financed a
considerably higher proportion of the total requirement than anticipated
mainly due to the marked shortfall in Government contributions to cover taxes
and import duties. Nonetheless, ONG's cash flow position was not adversely
affected since no payment had been made on the taxes. On the other hand,
delayed effectiveness of the loans from the World Bank and delayed and reduced
drawdowns from the U.S. Export-Import Bank necessitated the occurrence of
substantial short-term bridge financings at prevailing high interest rates in
FYs 80 and 81. ONG's debt service in FY82 was significantly higher than the
appraisal forecast, reflecting substantially higher interest expense and
earlier loan repayment than anticipated. As a result, even though ONG's
internal cash generation in FY82 was in line with the appraisal estimate, its
debt service coverage of 1.3 times in the same year fell short of the expected
2.0 times. In FY83 ONG's internal cash generation was considerably below the
appraisal estimate mainly as a result of the marked shortfall in gas supply.
Even though its debt service was slightly below the appraisal forecast, its
debt service converage of 1.9 times was lower than the expected 2.3 times.



- 48 -
Financial Position
7.08     The balance sheets of ONG as of 9/30/83 are compared as follows:
(In US$ Million)
Appraisal      X     Actual      %
Net revalued fixed assets                    509        86       403        79
Current assets                                82        14       106       21
Total Assets                            591       100      509       100
E.quity                                      176        30        61        12
Long-term debt                               402        68       368        72
Current liabilities/a                         13         2        80        16
Total Liabilities & Equity              591       100      509       100
Current ratio                               6.09                1.32
Debt/equity ratio                          70/30               86/14
/a Includes taxes and import duties payable of $51 million on actual balance
sheet
7.09     ONG's current ratio and debt/equity ratio were significantly weaker
than the appraisal estimate mainly as a result of the delayed Government
contributions noted above. Had there been no such delay, ONG's current ratio
would have been 3.7 and debt/equity ratio would been decreased to 77/23 by the
end of FY83.
Financial Covenants
7.10     In light of the fact that it was impractical to incorporate
conventional financial covenants for a consolidated PTT at the time of
appraisal, the company was requested to adopt a statement of corporate and
financial objectives with the view towards sound financial performance. The
Loan Agreement requires that:
(i)  PTT would maintain separate accounts for each of its major
activities, including ONG;
(ii) no long-term debt would be incurred by O14G without prior
agreement by the Bank unless a debt service coverage of 1.2
times would be achieved for 1982 through 1985 and 1.5 times
thereafter;
(iii) surplus funds from gas operations would only be applied for
other purposes after ensuring sufficient funds for requirements
of ONG;



- 49 -
(iv) PTT would earn a reasonable rate of return on the capital
invested;
(v) PTT would ensure sufficient cash flows to each of its
operational unit to enable it to meet its operating and
maintenance costs and debt service needs;
(vi) PTT would ensure that its internal cash generation could cover
its debt service by a margin comparable to that for industry
generally and cover capital expenditures to the extent they need
to be financed from Income; and
(vii) PTT would prepare, on an annual basis, a five year corporate
plan including, among others, its investment program, a forecast
of its profitability, the projected balance sheets and funds
flow.
7.11     Actual performance of consolidated PTT are summarized in Annex 5.
PTT has complied with all of the covenants summarized above. However, while
PTT has compiled with (v) which requires adequate coverage of debt service on
long-term debt, its internal cash generation was insufficient to cover
interest expense on short-term loan in FY81. As noted in Annex 5, PTT's
liquidity position improved significantly in FYs 82 and 83 and debt service on
both long and short term loans were adequately covered. PTT's financial
performance will continue to be monitored closely under the LPG Project now
under implementation.
7.12     The Guarantee Agreement provides that the Government would make an
equity contribution to cover the cost of land and right Lf way as well as
import taxes and duties of the project. As noted above, such contributions
from the Government are still pending.
VIII. Performance and Role of the Bank
8.01     From its first involvement in mid-1976 to completion of the Second
Gas Development Project, the Bank made significant contributions to the
development of Thailand's natural gas resources and the institutional capacity
to deal with this new energy source. The Bank's supportive role was
especially important in light of the country's inexperience with this new
energy resource; it included such diverse functions as: (i) serving as a
source of impartial advice in technical, financial and institutional matters;
(ii) expediting the decision making process; (iii) identifying essential
project and sector studies and technical assistance; and (iv) preparing terms
of reference of consultants, and providing guidance in their evaluation. The
Bank's efforts were particularly effective in bringing about an early
launching of the development project through assistance in setting up a
natural gas utility (NGOT), engaging technical and legal advisers in contract
negotiations with the foreign oil companies and undertaking timely preparation
and implementation activities critical to the success of a project of this
magnitude and complexity. From an institutional perspective, the Bank
required and assisted in establishing appropriate technical, financial and
operational training programs. While there is still room for improvement,
these programs have provided PTT with a competent staff capable of
independently carrying on its natural gas operations. Studies and related



- 50 -
sector work set the stage for the Bank's participation in the third project,
the LPG Plant Project approved in June 1982, through which it has continued
Its supportive role.
8.02     The Bank was originally called in by the Government to provide
unbiased advice on how to proceed with the gos purchase and the project.  No
alternative source of advice acceptable to Thai authorities was identified
during the project (i.e., although the Government was satisfied with virtually
all consultants In relation to specific project tasks, they were not satisfied
that any of the consultants could give competent and impartial advice on the
broader issues). In light of the above, the question remains as to whether
the Bank needed to finance 25% of the project cost to achieve the various
objectives. With benefit of hindsight, we believe the extent of parti-
cipation, was appropriate. An important part of the task was to ensure that
the management decisions were taken in time for the project to be completed
for the commencement of deliveries. Further, to ensure efficient procurement
the Bank had to exert strong influence on procurement decisions a number of
times during the project. Both of these required a weighty participation, and
the Bank's position as the largest single financier was important for this
role.
8.03     Relations with PTT (and its predecessor, NGOT) have been good
throughout the Bank's involvement in these two lending operations. PTT
confirms that complying with Bank requirements on procurement and project
supervision have not been a source of problems. However, both PTT and the
Ministry of Finance are critical of the Bank for making conclusion of a gas
sales agreement with EGAT a condition of loan effectiveness (para 1.03). This
condition of the loan delayed disbursement by 15 months and made it necessary
for PTT to arrange short term bridge financing for over US$70 million at a
time when interest rates were at near all-time-high levels. PTT maintains
that the condition provided no penalty to EGAT (which caused the delay), and
that it had to suffer a substant'al financial loss through no fault of its
own.  The point is a valid one, and from hindsight it appears that a fairer
and more effective approach would have been to put a comparable covenant in
the EGAT loan agreement for the Bang Pakong power plant project.
IX. Conclusions
9.01     The project was a success.  It was completed on schedule with a
substantial cost underrun, and it constitutes Thailand's first step in
developing an indigenous energy supply. So far, anticipated gas volumes have
not been realized, but the economic rate of return nevertheless remains very
attractive. Further benefits will follow as additional gas supplies already
under contract are connected to the project facilities.
9.02     Also successful was the Bank's institution building role which
spanned the period from the time when there was not even a natural gas
organization to the present successful operating entity.
9.03     Bank processing of Loan S-10-TH was linked to a gas sales agreement
between NGOT and Union Oil (para. 1.03). Government officials and others
involved in the negotiations felt that this gave a bargaining advantage to
Union Oil. That is to say, Union Oil, by knowing that a Bank loan would not
be forthcoming until a contract was signed, could afford to stall while the



- 51 -
pressure to make concessions was on NGOT. This reasoning overlooks the fact
that it would have been a poor bargaining tactic for either party to commit
money to the enterprise before an agreement was reached. In fact, the
condition was an important factor in concluding the agreement. However, this
does demonstrate that care must be taken in setting Bank lending conditions in
similar situations where they may influence ongoing negotiations.
9.04     Although the project remains economically sound, the shortfall in gas
supply demonstrates the geological risk associated with all petroleum
exploration and development, no matter how favorable the prospects appear.
This risk was recognized at appraisal and as discussed in this report found
acceptable because sufficient steps were Laken to mitigate the economic
implications and also because the field's estimated proven and probable
reserves were five times the actual quantity required to make the project
economic in addition to the sizeable additional gas deposits known to be in
the area. The project demonstrates that a much more comprehensive - and
expensive - appraisal of the field would have been necessary to avoid possible
financial and economic loss if there had been only one source of gas.
9.05     There have been suggestions that the take-or-pay conditions of the
gas sales contract between PTT and Union Oil are somewhat one-sided in that
PTT is required to compensate Union Oil for contract deliveries (or portions
thereof) it fails to accept, whereas the contract is not fully explicit in the
costs and penalties Union Oil is subject to for not making the contract
deliveries. However, such a conclusion is not valid when full acccunt is
taken of how other contractual and legal provisions affected Union Oil and
such considerations as the fact that:
(a) the risk to PTT was acceptable. PTT helped set the contract
delivery date which allowed ample time to prepare for the
deliveries, and EGAT provided a ready market. The Union Erawan
gas supply represented only a fraction of the likely demand;
(b) the take-or-pay provision was felt to be the only practical
means for ensuring that the PTT facilities could be installed on
time, and it was later demonstrated that th.! many delays
encountered during implementation would not have been overcome
without this contractual imperative;
(c) Union Oil has already been penalized by the reservoir's
inability to deliver the expected gas production both through
the initial deduction of 20% of its revenues and through the
lower gas volumes. The gas supply contract provides for a
substantial work coumitment by Union toward remedying the
problem, and it will take a larger investment than previously
anticipated to produce a smaller quantity of gas; and
(d) the gas price finally agreed to by both sides reflected the
terms and conditions of the contract. Considering the time and
hard bargaining it took to reach an agreement, it can be
concluded that both sides probably got the best deal either
could expect.



-  5- --. 
,,7tZZ$ 'S    0    >: rS3-   ;a /Iv,, /14



- 53 -
TUAILAND
SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPARISON OF ESTiMATED AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
APPSAIS*L ESTATM                                               ACTUAL COSrs
l.@tal     FE      Total    LoCal      P11    Tota        1AOc         FE       Total    Local       Pt    Total
In 1aht Mllitton            In V5S Ijilions           - in Raist- itilogo            - Tn -dSiTqueno
Laud and Right-of-ay                       s0      -          s0       4.0               4.0        64.'         -         64.9      1.1      -        3.1
-catorLAl Nad !Squlpnt
Lis plp'                              -       1.600     1,800      -       90.0    90.0          -       1.792.0    1.792.0      -       67.5    67.5
Cathodic protection                   -         40         40      -        2.0      2.0         -          23.5       23.5      -        1.1      1.1
-nlvw sad f*ttlta                     -         172       172      -        8.8      8.4         -         67.5        67.5      -        4.2      4.2
Da ,v4nt ctntrol                      -          44        64      -        3.2      1.2         1.8        16. 3     322.1      0.2    19.0      15.2
latnratn ctura                        tOO       192      292       5.0      9.6     14.4       266.8      I30N.       419.7     12.2      *.6    1i1.6
Spo   Prts                            -          4         14      -        0.7      0.7        13.2        -          13.2      0.4      -        0.6
Subtotal                              1o0    2.282      2.382      5.0    314.1    11t.1       265.8    2.372.2    2,456.0    13.0   114.4    127.4
Coatraet-
ipoe costing                          444       680     1,124     22.2     34.0    56.2          -         790.2      790.2      -       31.4    16.4
Oftsbore pipe 1eystZ                  320    1.400      1.920     14.0     80.0    94.0          -       1.591.?    1,911.2      -       N6.7   169.7
Osbhore ptpa laylg                   240       200       440     12.0     30.0    22.0           -        426.1      424.R      -       19.7    19.7
Subtotal                            1.004    2.40       3.U44     50.2    124.0    174.2         -       1.106.2    3.103.2      -      147.6   147.3
Otbhr Coeta
Indirect projaet costs                120       s0        170      6.0      2.5      A.5        31.2        -          31.2      1.5      -        1.5
NobIlIzatio  a"d dr obiliattoa         32       s0        112      1.6      4.0      S.6         -                      -
*reIgbt                                58       140      211       2.9      6.0    111.9         -           -          _        __       __       _
TMam  and TIort Dutie               1.300      -        1.300     63.0      -       65.0      1.052.0        -      1.052.0    50.9               50.9
O0wr. ar                               52       -          52      2.4      --       2.4         37.1        5.4       42.7      1.9      0.3      2.2
Start-np expanse                       20       AO         40      1.0      2.0      3.0       122.7        -         122.7      5.3      -        3.3
Subtotal                            1.582       330    1.912      79.1     16.3    95.6      1.243.0         5.4    1.246.4     5.6       0.3     99.9
Prolet Eenearag muasd
"Mamauset Services
Project  ninearteg   managesent       --        80         s0      --       4.0      4.0         -
Eslanerilg lan                       -         it         96      -        4.9      4.9         -        9 910.1     910.1              4 42.7    42.7
Conetractine  aupervision              64       156       240      4.2      7.6    12.0          -
Subtotal                               64       334       418      4.2     16.7    20.9                    9 910.1    910.1      --      42.7     42.7
Consulting and Tra1inin
Tralatag                                6        10        16      0.1      O.S      O.R                     -          -             -        -
Adwisota sereces                        2        10        12      0.1      0.5      0.6         o.R         7.1        7.9      0.1      0.3      0.4
TechniCEl Aastlatanc  and Studt-e       2        4U       4U       0.1      2.1      2.4          0.6       16.7       17.1      0.1      n.7      0.6
Subtotal                               10        46        76      0.5      1.3      3.0          1.4       23.6       25.2      0.2      1.n      1.7
Total Base Casto                        2.860    5.492      6.112    I43.0    274.6   417.6       1.545.1    f.410.0   A 1.15. n    15.9   311. 7    362.1
Fhsitcal Co1tlngenep                  290       346      638      14.5     27.4   4*.-                 --               --       --       --       -
Prtce Ccntlagenc                      330       120      450      16.5      6.0    22.5
Total Project Costo                     3.480    4J160      9,640    174.0    306.0   482.0       1. 35.1    4,419.9   afil! S.9e   306.2   362.1
Isterest Durti, Construction
-    a'-fle ncd                       __        140       140      -        7.0      7.0          -         32.3       32.3      -        1.4      1.4
-   Other                                      53         500      -       25.0    23.0          -         647.1      647.1              39-.3    39.3
Total Finalacg tagunired                3.480    *.800    10.280    174.0    ;.0.0    514.0       3,595.1    7.2e.91    O*.p6.4     75.9   346.9    422.2
LU  Actual cnta hawe boen adjuted to exclude foreign  e bchea  lsos of 9IG s11Ims (762 milltos _bctal.
Deceber 1983



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
TRAILAND
Second Natural Can Development Project
Schedule of Disbursements
(In US$ '000)
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Quarter             Appralsal          Actual      Actual/Appraisal (x)
1979/80
March 31, 1980                 4,900               -
June 30, 1980                 19,000              -                  -
1980/81
September 30, 1980            38,000              -                  -
December 31, 1981             53,000              -                  -
March 31, 1981                68,000              -                  -
June 30, 1981                 83,000            70,910               85
1981/82
September 30, 1981            97,000            83,970              87
December 31, 1981             98,000            96,450               98
March 31, 1982                99,000            96,450               97
June 30, 1982                100,000            96,450               96
1982/83
September 30, 1982           101,000            96,450              95
December 31, 1982            103,000            96,450              94
March 31, 1983               105,000            96,450               92
June 30, 1983                106,000            96,450              91
1983/84
September 30, 1983           107,000           101,500              95
December 31, 1983            107,000           107,000              100
Closing Date: 12/31/83
February 1984



THAILAND
SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPYENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(In USS Million)
__ar    ________                   Appi, teal                soCurrent Estimatg
Year     BeuefitsLI    Captta1 Co.ts,,   Operating Costs-,    Net henetits                 Benefits   Capital Costs    Operating Costo    Net Benefits
1978         -
1979         -                    5                   (1)                 (4)                   _               6                                        (6)
1980         -                 202                   (35)               (167)                  _              190                  _                   (190)
1981         -                 354                   (32)               (322)                  _              122                  -                   (122)
1982        304                 48                    146                 110                 259              12                 123                   124
1983        469                  7                    ISO                 312                 267              11                 150                   106
1984        714                 -                     233                 481                 382              50                 IS3                   139
1985        773                 -                     323                 450                 691              48                 327                   316
1986        913                 -                     319                 594                 924             102                 427                   3g5
1987       1113                 -                     375                 738                1033             170                 475                   389
1988       1214                 -                     417                 797                1175              68                 537                   570
1989       1295                 _                     446                 849                1362                                 613                   749
1990       1369                 -                     478                 891                1447                                 648                   799
1991       1450                 -                     512                 938                1531                                 684                  847
1992       1541                 -                     548                 993                1626              -                  739                   888
1993       1644                 -                     586                1058                1746              -                  797                  949
1994       1757                 -                     626                1131                1866              -                  856                  1014
1995       1878                 -                     670                1208                1985              -                  457                  0i71
1996       2007                 -                     717                1290                2129              -                  937                  1192
1997       2145                 -                     767                1378                2272              -                 1007                  1264
1998       2291                 -                     821                1470                2440              -                 IO2                  1358
1999       2449                 -                     878                1571                2607              -                 1156                 15l
2000       2613                 -                     940                1673                2798              -                 1230                  1568
Economic Rate of return                                48X                                                                       45t
1/   Includes value of gas, Income taxes and royalties paid by gas suppliers.
27   Includes capital expenditures for pipelines and conversion costs of boilers
37   Includes gas purchase costs, pipeline operation cots and increase in minimum vorking capital requirements.



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
THAILAND
Second Natural Gas Development Project
Natural Gas Operations Finances
For purposes of comparison with the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the
following adjustments have been made to ONG's actual financial statements:
1.   Fixed assets and related depreciation which were reported on
historical cost basis have been revalued at the same rate (7% p.a.)
as that applied in the SAR from 1981 onward;
2.   interest during construction which were capitalized have been
adjusted to be written off as an operational expense during the year
of occurrence;
3.   current portion of long-term debt which were reported under short-
term loan has been reclassified as long-term debt;
4.   accrued expenses have been reclassified as accounts payable; and
5.  accounts payable to head office have been reclassified as short-term
loan.



THAILAND
PTT
SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income Statements
(In US$ Million.-)
For Year Ended September 30                             1979                        1980                         1981                        1932                        1Q1
ApprctrAppralppralmal                                      Actuel       ApprInial    Actual         AppraiNsl    Actuel          Appraisal      Actual      Appraisal       Actual
Production
Gas (MHCFD)                                    -                                                                                  200            20.00       2.0            140o0n
Condensate (million bbl)                     --             --             --            --             --           -             -              1.10         -              2.5
Natural Gasoline (000 tons)                  --             --             --            --             --           --             --           19.10         -134
Prices
Ges ($/HATU)                                 --             --             --            --             --           -              2. 2          3.66          2.70          3. h
Condenoate (S/bbl)                           --             --             --                                                       -            3.00           -            35.00
Natural Gasoline ($/ton)                     --             --             --                          --                           -           242.00                      20S.00
Costs
Cam ($/HGBTU)                                 --             --            --            --             --           --             1.60          2.49          1.57          2.61
Condensate ($/bb)                            --             --             --            --             --           --             -            33.00          -            30.00
Revenues
Gas                                                          -                           --             --           --           192.79        182.31       253.20         212.23
Condensate                                                                                                                          -            50.53          -5.90
Natural Casoline                                                                         -              -                                         4.67           -            7.00
Total Revenues                    --             --             -            -              --            -            192.79       233.01        253.20         3"5.13
Expenseee
Gas Coats                                    --             --             --            --             --                        122.12        12nf.47      149.37          i1S.nn
Co'dansate Coats                             --             --             --            --             -            -              -            44.14         -             74.30
Natural Oabolf7a Costs                        -             --             --            --             --           --             --            0.32         -              n.47
D prectatton -                               --             --             -~-           -              -            -             22.30         2M.33        2A.25          71.A3
Operating & Admin. Costa                                                                                                            2.50          6.S7          2.60          6.34
Total Expens                                     --             --           --             -                         10.72         192.33        130.72        254.42
Income Before Interest                            -              --             --           --             -             --           42.07         45.63         77.4           50.71
laterest                                     3.02           0.20           6.78          2.39          22.42        37.97          34.13         40.84        48.01          27.75
Incone After Interest                            (3.02)         (0.20)         (6.76)       (2.39)        (22.42)       (37.97)          7.94         4.79         29.47          22.96
Voreign Ezchange Gain (Lose)                 --             --             --            --             -                           -            11.66         -             (8.00)
Net lncome                                       (3.02)         (0.20)         (6.76)        (2.39)       (22.42)       (37.97)          7.94         16.45        29.47          14.6    .
Operating Ratlo                                   -              __             __           _              _             _              0.76        O.l           0.70           0.63
V1    On revalued assets basis.



THAILAND
PTT
SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sources &  p     atlone of Funds
Mf   S   illions)
For Year Ended September 30                         1979                       1980                       1981                      1982                       1983
Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal      Actual      AppraLtel      Actual      Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal      Actual
Sources
Net Incoge Befora Intereat                                                                           --           --           42.n7        45.63        77.48        50.71
Adds  Depreciation                                                         -            -                                      26.10        20.38        28.25        21.31
Internal Cash Generation                 -             -             --           -             --           _            68.17       66.0l       105.71         75.52
World bank Drawdavn                            4.90          3.61         33.10         0.59         s9.00       7e.56          4.00        17.04         6.00          5.05
lxin lank Drawdown                             -             --           69.00        83.12        103.0n        1.13          R.nn        39.2A         -             -
Comercial Loan Drawdova                        1.12          -            16.24        50.Eq        33.49        50.91         24.0          -            -
Short-term Loan                                --            5.00          -           35.00         -            MA.0O         -            -            -
Subtotal                            6.02          8.61        113.34       168.80        245.49      149.60         36. 0        56.24       111.73         77.57
Increases in Government Contributions          1.10          0.50         38.90         1.32        37.00         -             -            --           -            -
Increases in Other Liabilities                 -             _             -           -             -            _             -           14.10         -            29.93
TOTAL SOURCES                       7.12          9.11        157.24       170.12        282.49       149.60        104.26      136.35       111.73        107.50
Applications
Capital Uxpenditures                           4.90          4.30        179.10      206.71        276.00       142.02         16.00        13.64         6.00          8.50
Long-term Loan Repayment                       -             -             -                         -            4.90          -           10.31        10.41         11.54
Short-tarm Loan Rapayment                      -             --            --          --            --           --                        30.21         - 
Interest                                       3.02          0.20          6.78        2.39         22.42        37.97         34.13        40.84.       35.32         27.73
Total Debt Service                  3.02          0.20          6.78         2.39         22.42        42.87         34.13       81.36        45.73         39.29
Increase in Deferred Charges                   -             0.10          -           0.40          -            0.61          -           (0.22)        -             -
Changes in Working Capital                    (0.80)         4.01        (28.64)      (39.38)       (15.93)     (35.90)        54.13        41.57        60.00         59.71
Total Application.s                 7.12          9.11        157.24       170.12        282.49       149.60       104.26       116.35       111.73        107.50      t
Debt Service Coverage,/                        -             --            -            --           -            --            2.00         1.29         2.31          1.35
0
1or long-term debt only.



THAILANM
PTr
SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Palance Sheets
(Ifn Us$ millions)
An of September 30                                   1979                       1980                      I1RI                        1002                      1983
Appraisal      Actual      Appraleal      Actual     Appraisal      Actual      Appralsal      Actual      Appraisnl      Actual
Assets
Gross Fixed Aaests, Revalued                   4.40          4.80        184.00       211.50        473.no       368.24        s22.00       407.51       565.00        444.54
Leses  Ace Depreciation                        -             -                                                                 (26.10)      (20.3A)      (56.18)       (42.19)
Not Revalued Fixed Aseetc                 4.40          4.80        184.00       211.50        473.00       363.24        495.90       387.13       508.A2       402.35
Deterred Charges                               -             0.10          --           0. 50                      1.11          -            0).3g        -             0.67
Current Assete
Cash                                                         5.37 3                    16.2           --           6.7           5.7          0.58        61.07         39.09
Accounts Receivable                            --            --            --           ---                        -            15.h5        36.91        21.22         40.74
Other Current Assets                           --            0.09          --             .68         --           5.28          -            3.13         -            26.07
Total Current Assets                      _             5.46          -           25.50          -           12.15         21.63        40.62       82.29         105.94
Total Assets                         4.90         10.36       14.00       237.50        473.00       38I.5n         517.53      42A.64       591.11        508.96
Liabilities & Equlty
Capital                                        1.10           1.69        40.00         3.0l         77.0n         2.70         77.00         2.73        77.0n          2.74
Revaluation Reserves                           --            --            -            -            13.00        14.81         46.0n        40.29        81.17         68.1%
Retained Earnings                             (3.02)        (1.10)        (9.801       (3.49)       (32.22)      (41.46)       (24.2A)      (25.01)       17.04        (1l.04)
Total Equity                             (1.92)         0.59         30.2n        (0.48)        57.78       (21.e5)        44.72         M8.M1      176.05         60.84
Longrters Debt                                 6.02          3.61        124.36       137.41        360.95       26q.73        405.e5       329.26       401.57        319.74
leserve for Cca  Coat Adjustment               --            --            --    -                    --                  -                   -            -            4A.16
Current Liabilities
Short-term Debt                                --            5.00          --          40.00          -           58.no          -           16.2S         -
Accounts Payablae/                             0.81           1.16        29.44        60.57         *5.37        78.22         12.87        65.12        13.52         80.22
Total Current LiabilItles                 0.81          6.16         29.44       100.57         45.37       136.22         12.87        81.37        13.52        80.22
Total Liabilities                         6.83          9.77        153.80       237.98        415.22       405.45        418.82       410.63       415.05        444.12
Total Liabilities 4 Equity           4.91         10.56        184.00      237.50        473.00       381.50        517.53       428.64      .591.10        50a.96
Debt/Equity Ratio                              1.47          0.86          0.80         1.00          0.86         1.10           M.G0        0.95         0.70          0.86
Current Ratio                                  --            --            --           --            --           --            1.68         0.50         6.09          1.32
Return ou Average Net Assets (2)               --            --            --           --            --           -             R.68        12.0R        15.42         12.60 
I/   Actual state.entu include tares and import dutlea payable



THAfLAND
SECOND NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gas Sales Margin
(in US$/MMBTU)
Appraisal                                                Current Estimate
Selling Price        Average Cost   Gross Margin    Selling Price            Average Cost       Gross Margin
1982                2.5                  1.6              0.9                3.7                2.5                 1.2
1983                2.7                  1.6              1.1                3.7                2.6                1.1
1984                2.9                  1.8              1.1                3.7                2.5                1.2
1985                3.1                  1.9              1.2                4.1                2.6                1.5
1986                3.3                 2.1               1.2                4.3                2.8                1.5
1987                3.5                  2.3              1.2                4.5                3.1                1.4
1988                3.8                 2.5               1.3                4.7                3.4                1.3
1989                4.1                 2.6               1.5                4.9                3.6                1.3
1990                4.3                 2.8               1.5                5.1                3.9                1.2
1991                4.6                 3.0               1.6                5.5                4.2                1.3                 o
1992                5.0                 3.2              1.8                 5.9                4.6                1.3
1993                5.3                 3.4               1.9                6.4                4.9                1.5
1994                5.7                  3.7              2.0                6.9                5.3                1.6
1995                6.1                  3.9              2.2                7.5                5.7                1.8
1996                6.5                 4.2               2.3                8.1                6.?                1.9
1997                7.0                 4.5               2.5                8.7                6.7                2.0
1998                7.5                 4.8               2.7                9.4                7.1                2.3
1999                8.0                  5.2              2.8               10.2                7.7                2.5
2000                8.5                  5.5              3.0               11.0                8.3                2.7
1/   Based on gas supply from both Union Oil and Texas Pacific.
o 



- 61 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
Second Natural Gas Development Project
Consolidated PTT Finances
PTT's consolidated finances over the last four years are summarized
below:
(in million US$)
FY1980    FY1981      FY1982      FY1983
--------------audited---------------
Revenues                             1165       1199        1364        1559
Net Income                              28       (41)         41          46
Current Assets                        406        664         595         540
Total Assets                          653       1107        1048        1042
Current Liabilities                   411        782         440         426
Long-term debt                        160        288         545         513
Total Equity                            82        37          63         102
Operating Ratio                      0.96       0.99        0.93        0.95
Current Ratio                        0.99       0.85        1.35        1.27
Receivables Turnover (days)          88         95          77          39
Debt/Equity Ratio                   66/34       92/8       90/10       83/17
Total Liabilities/Equity Ratio    87/13         98/2        94/6       90/10
Consolidated PTT's finances were dominated by ODS before pipeline
operations started in FY82.  As the above table shows, PTT reported net income
of $28 million in FY80. However, its liquidity position was weak. This was
mainly due to delayed payments by EGAT, by far the largest customer of PTT.
In addition, ODS' inadequate billing and control system prevented effective
management of accounts receivable.
In FY81 EGAT began to make timely payment to PTT and ODS' accounting
system was strengthened with the assistance of consultants. Nonetheless,
delayed payments by the Oil Stabilization Fund and delayed effectiveness of
two long-term loans for the pipeline project necessitated the occurrence of
substantial bridge financing at prevailing high interest rates.  In addition,
funding of the Bangchak refinery represented a major drain on PTT's cash
position and a short-term loan in the order of $300 million was drawndown to
meet Bangchak's working capital requirements. PTT's operating income of $9
million was insufficient to cover an Interest expense of $30 million and,
after foreign exchange loss of $21 million, the company posted a net loss of
$42 million in FY81.
PTT's finances improved considerably in FY82 and 83.  In particular,
its liquidity position was strengthened, as reflected by a current ratio of
1.3-1.4 against 0.85 in FY81.



ANNEX 5
- 62 -                      Page Z of 2
This was mainly due to the following:
(a) In accordance with the action plan to alleviate PTT-s short-term
liquidity problems, PTT sought co-mercial financing of $200 million,
interest and principal on which would be paid by the Government. Of
this amount, $125 million would represent payment of the Oil Funds
indebtedness to PTT, while the balance would represent equity
injection into PTT. In addition, the Government allowed PTT to
consolidate the inventory of ODS and Bangehak refinery for purposes
of compliance with the regulation for crude and products reserves,
thereby lowering the level of required inventory for overall PTT.
(b) The Oil Stabilization Fund made timely payments to PTT.
(c) Long-term loans for the pipeline project became effective and
substantial bridge financing was retired.
(d)  ODS' profitability was improved.
Notwithstanding a 6Z drop in sales revenues, ODS reported a sharp
increase in operating income of $41 million in FY82 as compared against $9
million in FY81. This was mainly as a result of a change in product mix, with
an increased share of gasoline which is the single most profitable product.
Interest expense was decreased by 37% to $20 million, resulting in a net
income of $21 million. Together w4th a net income of $20 million from ONG,
consolidated PTT-s net income totalled $41 zi.llion in FY82. Consolidated
PTVs net income continued to increase to $48 million in FY83, with $27
million and $21 million from ODS and ONG respectively.



I bRD 13476 RI
-  !t~~~~~~~Ak~~~~~~  too. ~~~~~~NOVEMBER 1979
THAILAND
.W                          Saroburt,                         PROPOSED PIPELINE ROUTES
V                  4 N.  =El   Kanchon'buri                                                                                 i
Pokhon PaitomO         8nko Dag                                a 
V               .       Ratchoburi0                                             A *    Oil  -
i-      l -i                               l                                     SomutSanSirom   0    Dry Holes
p                    ..                         f 5amut  ;                           -          Proposed Pipeline%
Phrhbr0                                                 (,us F,elds
Area of                     nPietcha-ur(                                           -       -Iierflarional Boundaries
or ALAW YIA                                                          ,Ii.*'i.
rNDONESA  ''                                         hi7  |                                 (    aDEMOCRATIC
3   KP. chwp        |                                           \  KAMPUC-+IEA  1-
.   ,. ,r      .'                                       0        zuE  AlA /
*     C humpPhon                                            AA /
>  !  t    Ranong                             a      O   ;-: r. Kha
0~~~~
o                              ~~~~~~0
0'
hRonong
Sur TlhanP                                             uNI/ON OiL        STRuc rURf It IP
O       *~*      ~THA AAIAVD
Phangrnga                                                                                      BOC/NDAA'Y CIAIM4
0~~~~~~~~~
  Nokhon SSg                                        A                \
Tkan,morat                                           V      
B.t(b                                                                                     \.a       rFX.A                             S.f/  -
Pfuke,O                                                                                         5 rR(jcfUJ  ~IEl1
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
T.'ang0                                                                        / 
0~~~~~~~~~ _.  SHSARED BY
Sorealkhla                      O           ,        WrAL   AND  MALAYSIA
Sorun  5                  Yala/
o   A           Y~~~~~orihat
l'l      '4,,;a, ~~~~~~~'S ;- ~Narothawar 
O 20 40 60                                                                                                              X 10e0 120 140 160
|1   O    ZD140   a 0      BI:; I1C .






