Document of                    FILE CI?Y
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2649-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
PETROLEUM AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
SECOND NATURAL GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
November 20, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of  |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



GLOSSARY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Baht      =    US$0.05
20 Baht     =    US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
MW         =   Megawatt (thousand kilowatts)
KWh        =    Kilowatt hours (=2,978 kcals)
GWh        =    Gigawatt hours (million kilowatt hours)
MMSCFD     =    Million standard cubic feet per day
MCF        =    Thousand cubic feet
tcf        =    Trillion cubic feet
TOE        =    Tonnes oil equivalent (10.415 x 106 kcals)
kcals      =    Kilocalories (1 Kcal = 3.97 Btu)
bbl             Barrels (approximately 6.6 barrels per
tonne fuel oil)
Btu/cu ft  =    British Thermal Units per cubic foot
km         =    Kilometer (0.62 miles)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EGAT      =    Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
LPG       =    Liquefied Petroleum Gases
MEA       =    Metropolitan Electricity Authority
NEA       =    National Energy Administration
NESDB     =    National Economic and Social Development Board
NGOT      =    Natural Gas Organization of Thailand
OFO       =    Oil Fuel Organization
PEA       =    Provincial Electricity Authority
PTT       =    Petroleum Authority of Thailand
TORC      =    Thailand Oil Refining Company
TP        =    Texas Pacific Oil Company
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SECOND NATURAL GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:       The Petroleum Authorlty of Thailand (PTT)
Guarantor:      The Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:         $107 million equivalent
Terms:          20 years Including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.95%
per annum.
Prolect
Description:  The project will assist Thailand in exploiting a sizeable off-
shore natural gas field in collaboration with the Union Oil
Group. It comprises a buried pipeline system and ancillary
infrastructure to transport the gas from Union Oil'V "A"
Structure, located about 425 km south of Rayong, to an
onshore terminal and to distribute it to industrial consumers
which, in the initial years, will be chiefly the South Bangkok
and Bang Pakong power generating stations. In addition to
the consultants' services for project design, engineering and
management, the project includes (a) training for PTT staff
in natural gas operations and future undertakings, (b) a gas
utilization study to identify significant users for gas and
related investment needs, (c) a refinery expansion study to
determine refinery capacity required and to advise on the mix
and pricing of refined products; (d) technical advisory
services to assist PTT on refinery expansion decisions and
their implementation; and (e) an energy audit study to assess
improvements that can be made to energy efficiency in
industry.
benefits and
Risks:        The project will have a major impact on Thailand's energy
future. It will help resolve the problem of securing reliable
oil supplies for power generation and reduce the threat of
rapid increases in oil prices. The project is subjiect to
the risks normally associated with an offshore gas pipeline
facility. Gas reserves have been confirmed and total proven
and probable reserves are about five times the leveL needed
to make the project economic. A delay in project completion
and failure on the part of PTT to accept contract dieliveries
of gas, which could cost PTT about $240,000 per day, is not
anticipated. The risk of a cost overrun is small as major
contracts will be let shortly.
Thi document has a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perl mance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                  Local   Foreign   Total
--- In US$ millions ---
Land                                            4.0         -       4.0
Pipe and ancillaries                            5.0      114.1   119.1
Pipe coating                                   25.2       34.0    56.2
Civil works                                    28.0       90.0   118.0
Other costs (indirect, freight & taxes)        79.1       16.5    95.6
Project engineering and management              4.2       11.8    16.0
Consultants and training                        0.5        3.3      3.8
Refinance Loan S 10-TH                            -        4.9      4.9
Contingencies
Physical                                     14.5       27.4    41.9
Price                                        16.5        6.0    22.5
Interest during construction                      -       32.0    32.0
Total Project Cost                       174.0     340.0   514.0
Financing Plan:
Government                                      77.0          -    77.0
IBRD                                            30.0       77.0   107.0
Export credit agencies                             -      180.0   180.0
Commercial banks                                67.0       83.0   150.0
Total                                    174.0     340.0   514.0
Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan:  Bank FY 1980         1981        1982        1983        1984
…----------------- ($ million) ------------------
Annual            19.0        64.0        17.0          6.0         1.0
Cumulative        19.0        83.0       100.0        106.0       107.0
Rate of Return:  53%.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 2612-TH, dated November 5, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOIMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPKIENT
TO THE EXECIJTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE PETROLEUM AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE SECOND NATURAL GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT), with the guarantee of the
Kingdom of Thailand, for the equivalent of $107.0 million to help finance the
Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project. The proposed loan amount includes $4.9
million to refinance Loan S 10-TH for the Natural Gas Development Fngi-
neering Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, with interest at 7.95% per annum. PTT is also seeking commercial
banks'and export credit financing of about $335 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid economic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that certain income groups have lagged behind this progress.
It identifies the essential characteristics of these groups and points to
the need for continued overall development as well as the initiation of
specific measures to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in rural
areas. It further discusses the constraints on the successful implementation
of these policies. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.         Despite frequent changes at the top levels of government, there is
a fundamental stability in Thai society and the bureaucracy. Recent changes
in governments have mainly reflected differences in view about Thailand's
external relations and on the political decision-making process within the
country and not fundamental differences about the social or economic system.
The civilian government formed in November 1977, under the prime ministership
of General Kriangsak Chomanan, has moved successfully to improve and stabilize
relations with Thailand's Indochinese neighbors and to strengthen relations
among its ASEAN partners. A new constitution was promulgated in December
1978, and elections were held in April 1979. No party won a majority of the
seats in the lower house; the largest block, some 82 seats out of 301, was
won by the Social Action Party led by the former Prime Minister Fukrit Pramoj.
/1 Parts I and II are essentially the same as in the recent President's
Report (No. P-2638-TH) dated November 6, 1979 for the Xhao Laem Hydro-
electric Project in Thailand, distributed to the Executive Directors
under cover of Secretary's Memorandum R79-272.



-2-
The upper house was appointed and contained mostly Kriangsak supporters. The
majority of the combined lower and upper houses selected General Kriangsak as
the new Prime Minister. After nearly a month of negotiations, Kriangsak
formed a coalition government with 29 ministers, including 10 without
portfolio in the Prime Minister's office. Many personalities from the
previous Cabinet remain, although some with different responsibilities. The
composition of the Government and Kriangsak's statements indicate that this
Government will continue the emphasis of the previous one on rural development
and poverty alleviation; however, this program reflects a more delicate
balance among contending political forces than its predecessors.
4.        A broad consensus has developed over the last several years on the
priorities for socioeconomic development, as expressed in the country's
Fourth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81).
There is now increasing commitment to achieving a widespread distribution of
the benefits of growth. In the past several years the Government has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, and the flood relief program in 1978.
All these programs have been designed to produce quick and visible results,
the latter two in response to specific crises, but they were also aimed at
increasing production capacity in rural areas and demonstrating the concern
of the Central Government for the plight of the rural population. There is
an increasing realization that an improvement in the conditions of the
poorest farmers and those living in the more remote areas is not only
desirable in itself, but would also counteract political instability in the
long run. The new Government has yet to define its program, but no break
from these trends is foreseen. Recent developments in Indochina and the
arrival of refugees have occupied the new Government's attention. Coping
with these problems will probably lead to some reallocation of resources to
refugee relief and to strengthening Thailand's military position in border
areas; however, it is too soon to tell what the effects of these developments
will be on other programs.
Past Socioeconomic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  There
has been some deceleration in recent years, the average annual real GDP
growth rate from 1960 to 1978 was 7.5%, or about 4.4% per capita. Real
agricultural growth of 5% was a leading factor sustaining this expansion.
The cultivated area increased by about 4% a year, water control was improved,
irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of relatively new crops including
maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber grew rapidly. Agriculture has also
been a major contributor to export growth. The Government maintained
economic and price stability throughout the period and encouraged private
savings and investment. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated
between 19% and 24%, and total investment between 20% and 27%. The high
level of private investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10%
and a real growth of manufactured exports of 30% per year since 1970. All
this was achieved with a limited inflow of foreign resources and until
recently, the resource gap remained below 5% of GDP.



-3-
6.        The growth in incomes has, however, not been evenly distributed
throughout the country, and at present there are very significant regional
differentials in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure.
While the regions are very different in terms of topography, climate, soils,
urbanization, etc., and present quite distinct problems for future develop-
ment, there appears to be a close correlation between development and proxim-
ity to urban centers. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has tlhe highest
per capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the other three regions, the North,
Northeast and South. The incidence of poverty is estimated at only around
10% in the Center, around 25% in the North and South, and around 35% in the
Northeast. Within the regions also there is considerable variation: farmers
who have diversified into cash crops have generally enjoyed substantial
growth in real incomes while the incomes of those who have been unable or
unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. Recent
research has shown that the lack of cropping patterns and agricultural tech-
niques appropriate to the land and climatic conditions is a major factor in
much of the rural poverty. This is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed
rice farmers in the Northeast and North. Since there is a well-functioning
labor market, the low incomes of this large group have tended to depress
unskilled wages throughout the economy.
7.        Overall, the rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 7.1% p.a.,
compared to 8.3% in the 1960s. In addition to external factors (the oil
price increase and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for
this deceleration is the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been
pushed into less fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural
growth to about 4.6% p.a. since 1970 compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. During
1973 and part of 1974, this secular deceleration was hidden by very high
prices for Thailand's main export products and a domestic investment boom.
This was accompanied by rapid domestic inflation, which led the Government
to curtail sharply the public investment program in 1974 and 1975. Price
stability has since been restored and private domestic investment remains
high at 17-18% of GDP. The economy expanded rapidly in 1978, and inflation
again threatens to become a serious problem.
8.        Thailand's terms of trade and agricultural export prospects are now
less favorable than in the early 1970s. Thailand is facing severe restric-
tions on two of its major exports to the European Economic Community, cassava
and canned pineapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the International
Sugar Agreement. The balance of payments, which recorded surpluses. in 1973-
74, has since been running large deficits. The current account deficit
reached $1,241 million, or 6% of GDP in 1978. The Government has signifi-
cantly increased its foreign borrowing from traditional sources, from the
Eurodollar market and from the IMF to finance these deficits. Foreign
exchange reserves have also been used extensively. To contain the balance
of payments deficit, the Government, in March 1978, raised tariffs on 141
"nonessential" imports and increased excise taxes on a number of items, most
notably gasoline. It raised the gasoline price again in February 1979 and
started an energy conservation program to try to contain the oil import bill.



-4-
Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        Thailand is currently in the third year of its Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (1977-81). The first two Plans concentrated on providing
necessary economic infrastructure to facilitate and accommodate the rapid
growth that was taking place in the economy. The strategy proposed in the
Third Plan moved beyond the previous Plan to "alleviate problems related to
the widening income gap and inequitable distribution of social services."
However, actual budgetary allocations have not always reflected these priori-
ties, and there has not been a major shift in expenditure patterns. The
concentration of senior staff of the ministries in Bangkok and the high degree
of centralization of authority at the departmental level have been major
factors impeding reallocation of resources. There is little regional delega-
tion of authority, and the close cooperation within and among ministries
necessary to implement poverty-oriented development projects has been lacking.
These problems have been recognized and the Government is implementing a
number of long- and short-term measures to improve its development administra-
tion and expedite project execution, including a major reform in 1976 of the
civil service personnel, planning and staffing procedures, establishment of
special project committees, and implementation of a revolving fund scheme to
speed implementation of Bank-assisted projects. Further improvements in
development management is one of the principal objectives of the Bank's
policy dialogue with the Government.
10.       The Fourth Plan continues the shift in emphasis started in the Third
Plan. Its principal objectives are achieving 7% real growth, equitable dis-
tribution of income, reduction in the rate of population growth, faster gener-
ation of employment opportunities and balanced regional development. Pro-
jected public sector development expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for the
Plan period, a 90% increase in real terms over the Third Plan. However, the
Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and con-
crete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social objectives
remain largely to be defined. The Bank and agencies of the Government are
undertaking a number of studies to help design policies and programs to help
achieve the Fourth Plan objectives. These studies are focusing on problems
of unemployment, income distribution, industrial policy, and regional
development. The Bank will be supporting a Provincial Planning program, and
the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) has just initiated
a New Village Development Program designed to engage wider participation in
the design and implementation of small-scale projects, initially in the
poorest villages. Japan has committed some $70 million to support the first
two years of this program.
11.       In looking ahead towards the 1980s, it is clear that many of the
positive features which helped sustain a rapid rate of economic growth over
the past two decades will continue to contribute to future growth.  These
factors include a relatively equitable distribution of rural land, responsive-
ness of Thai farmers to improved technology, provision of infrastructure by
the Thai Government, and the dynamism of the private sector in both industry



-5-
and agriculture. Also major gains have been made in family planning in
recent years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from about 3%
during the 1960s to 2.5% in 1977./i The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
12.       However, some less favorable domestic factors are emerging.  The
labor force is expected to grow at 3% over the next decade, necessitating a
high rate of job creation. Past growth has benefited households unevenly
creating further income disparities that could threaten the social cohesion
of the country. At the same time, additional fertile land, which has
supported the growth of agricultural production and exports in the past, is
becoming increasingly scarce. In view of these factors, continued reliance
on the past pattern of development would lead to a deceleration of agricul-
tural and overall growth in the next decade, resulting in persistently large
balance of payments deficits, higher rates of unemployment or underemploy-
ment, and stagnating or declining real incomes of the poorer segments of the
population, especially in rural areas and among unskilled workers. Thus, a
shift in the development pattern is necessary not only for social, but also
for economic reasons.
13.       The key development issue in Thailand is how to shift the! economy
from a pattern of growth based on the extension of land under cultivation and
on import-substituting industries to one based on increasingly intetnsive use
of land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be necessary
to ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparities reduced,
or at least not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the
Government's role has been confined to largely short-term economic management,
where its performance has been good, and to the provision of basic economic
and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transition,
the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated policies and
actions on a long-term basis.
14.       Agriculture will continue to be a crucial sector since it directly
generates 30% of GDP, provides about 70% of total exports, employs 75% of the
labor force, and provides a livelihood for 80% of Thailand's population.
Future growth of the sector will have to be based on more intensive utiliza-
tion of cultivated areas, continued diversification of crops, improved crop-
ping patterns and farming practices, and the availability of agricultural
credit.  All of these imply an increased government role in the rural sector.
As a matter of high priority, special programs will have to be employed to
accelerate income growth of those who have not benefitted from the recent
economic growth. These programs should aid the development of upland and
rainfed lowland areas through research, extension services and rural infra-
structure development. In addition, wherever technically feasible irrigation
development, with the associated introduction of high-yielding varieties,
greater use of fertilizers and other commercial inputs should be continued.
The Bank's lending program is being reoriented to support these ef:Eorts.
/1 This is a further decline from the 2.9% average growth recorded for the
period 1970-76.



-6 -
15.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the burden of sustaining future growth
will have to shift progressively to the industrial sector.  Industry, con-
struction and services will have to provide an increasing share of employment
for the growing labor force. Greater effort will be required to encourage
the location of industries outside Bangkok and to promote small-scale and
rural industries. While continued growth of manufactured exports is essen-
tial, the large domestic market also offers opportunities for a balanced
industrial growth based on production of consumer goods, agricultural inputs
and processing of agricultural outputs for urban consumption and export. The
Bank's policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price distor-
tions, increase the availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to
efficient production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic
private sector can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating
jobs.
Financing Requirements
16.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Govern-
ment domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (15.5% for 1974-78) is low com-
pared to other developing countries at similar levels of development due to
low tax rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compli-
ance. The Government has achieved a modest improvement in resource mobiliza-
tion through revision of the tax structure and improved collections. It is
currently exploring other forms of taxation, such as the value added tax.
Such changes would facilitate a reduction in export taxes on rice and other
commodities, which have inhibited agricultural growth.
17.       During the coming 5-10 years, the demand for external resources is
likely to increase as the cost of reducing the present resource deficit
through a reduction in public investment would be high in terms of growth and
employment opportunities foregone. Despite an average real growth of exports
in excess of 8% and a modest improvement in the terms of trade, large trade
and current account deficits are expected through the mid-1980s due to the
need for capital goods imports for industry and for modern inputs to raise
agricultural productivity. In the longer term, the exploitation of the
natural gas fields in the Gulf of Thailand, further development of
Thailand's lignite resources, the continued growth of manufactured exports
and the development of Thai industries could restore external equilibrium
and significantly reduce the current account deficits in the second half of
the 1980s. Although the levels of foreign borrowing needed to finance these
deficits are high in relation to Thailand's past experience, they are not
high in relation to the current needs of the Thai economy or in comparison
with other countries at a similar stage of development. With a dynamic
private sector and a long history of conservative monetary and fiscal
policy, Thailand should be able to use the resources effectively and service
the external debt.



-7-
18.        Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks,
have been expanding their programs to meet a part of the rising requirements.
The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets, and
by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79 totalling about $200 million.
The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Commitee to coordinate
and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank of Thailand
is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing abroad in order
to keep track of total foreign debt. Thailand's external public borrowing
requirements to the end of the Fourth Plan period (1981) and the level of
concessionality were reviewed at the last Consultative Group meeting. It
was agreed that the aid requirements, although high, were consistent with
Thailand's development strategy and sustainable by the economy. The need
for continued substantial support on concessional terms was emphasized.
It therefore seems appropriate to include a limited amount of IDA credits in
the Bank Group's lending to Thailand. In addition, external agencies, includ-
ing the Bank Group have in recent years increasingly concentrated project
lending to Thailand in the agricultural and social sectors that have high
social benefits but low foreign exchange savings. To achieve the higher level
of external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in
selected projects, when the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some
local currency expenditures.
19.        It is likely that by 1985, net disbursements will more than double
in current terms for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private
borrowing, although in real terms the growth is much less. Even with this
increase in borrowing, the debt service ratio on public debt (3.8% in 1977)
should remain below 10% through 1985 and decline thereafter. The dlebt service
ratio on total civilian borrowing, public and private, currently about 15%,
should not exceed 20%. Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports
and the rapid expansion of manufactured exports, these debt service require-
ments will be within Thailand's capacity and will not endanger its credit
standing. It should be noted, however, that these projections assume a
significant level of concessional assistance from other donors, particularly
Japan, in view of that country's explicit intention to expand its foreign
aid program.



-8-
PART II - BANFK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
20.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of September 30, 1979 had received 51 loans amounting to about
$1,411 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of these
loans has been as follows: $311.5 million for transportation; $236.4 million
for irrigation; $391.7 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $65.8 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153.0 million for telecommunications; $144.2 million for agricultural and
rural development; $79.6 million for urban development; $52.3 million for
education; and $42.5 million for industry. Thailand has also received six
IDA credits: two credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of
$25.0 million for rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for
irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population
project. In general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out
satisfactorily and in accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of September 30, 1979.
21.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 35%
of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside
the central flood plain (rubber replanting; livestock, agricultural exten-
sion, and rural development). Projects in the social sectors which prior to
FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of the program,
have both diversified and grown. In recent years education, population and
low-income housing projects have accounted for about 15% of the program.
22.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Peport verify the
appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, and underscore the need to
move even further in designing programs which help the rural population,
particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have been largely bypassed by
recent economic growth. In the agricultural sector, therefore, the Bank is
redoubling its efforts to develop an approach which will help to lift the
rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence. A combination of education,
agricultural research and extension, credit and improved infrastructure is
foreseen. However, the major problem is the absence so far of a viable
package for the poorest and most remote farmers. Expansion and improvement
of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on reaching



-_9 -
those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern, northeastern and
southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report
is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic activity
outside of Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial
lending will, therefore, be directed to projects which enhance the
attractiveness of regional cities as service centers for the agricultural
economy of those regions. Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimed at
strengthening agencies providing essential services to the urban population
and the development of low cost, replicable programs to meet the demands of
the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without diverting scarce
resources from other high-priority development needs.
23.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward project
preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will continue to play
a vital role in helping to identify and prepare such projects. Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element
in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource requirements for infra-
structure development, particularly for developing energy and its domestic
primary sources, are large, and the Bank is concentrating its remaining
funds in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy
changes, mobilizing other resources, and dirpctly facilitating growth in
rural areas. The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector
through its economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order
to help promote industrial policy which favors more labor-intensive and
dispersed activities to complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation.
24.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$365 million, as of December 31, 1977, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (8.3% of GDP in 1978). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below 30%
of total public external debt by 1982 as Thailand diversifies its borrowing
program. The Bank Group's share in total debt outstanding would fall below
20%, and its share of total debt service would not exceed 10%.
25.       As of September 30, 1979, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$83 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller
enterprises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed sponge iron project and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN
community; projects in the petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector;
and projects in the agricultural sector. In addition, IFC expects to continue
to help traditional manufacturing projects and to assist in financial
institutions and money market developments.



- 10 -
PART III - THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR
Background - The Burden of Energy Imports
26.       At the present time, Thailand is almost entirely dependent on
imported crude oil and products to meet its petroleum requirements. Current
consumption of oil products is about 184,000 barrels/day and accounts for
about 70% of Thailand's total primary energy requirements. Increases in the
price of oil and products since 1973 have become a heavy burden on the Thai
economy: between 1972 and 1977, the oil import bill rose in volume by 25%
and in value by 635%. In 1977, oil imports, which were about $950 million
in value, absorbed 29% of export earnings, leaving Thailand with a substan-
tial current account deficit. The impact of oil prices will be even greater
following the 1979 increases. Preliminary estimates indicate that in 1979,
Thailand's oil import bill will increase 43% to $1.6 billion, absorbing
almost a third of export earnings and contributing to a current account
deficit of more than $2 billion.
Energy Resources
27.       Opportunities for reducing Thailand's dependence on imported
energy for the duration of the 1980s are good. Significant reserves of
natural gas have been discovered in the Gulf of Thailand which are projected
to start coming onstream from about mid-1981. The proven recoverable gas
reserves are 1.6 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of good quality gas and 1.3 tcf
of lower quality gas. Probable recoverable reserves are estimated at a
further 4.7 tcf. Other smaller offshore gas deposits are now being delineated
along the proposed pipeline route. Petroleum exploration is continuing both
on and offshore. In addition to the natural gas discoveries, substantial
increases in Thailand's lignite deposits have been indicated by recent
drilling. The lignite reserves at Mae Moh are still being evaluated, but
could be as high as 650 million tons, capable of supporting 2,000 MW of
electricity generating capacity in the late 1980s. With the development of
the natural gas and lignite resources, a significant transformation in the
primary energy supply mix is possible which could reduce the use of fuel oil
for electricity generation from the present 74% to less than 10% by the late
1980s. However, unless an appreciable amount of additional natural gas or
lignite reserves is discovered, primary energy supply in the 1990s would
depend on imported fuel or the development of international hydro.
28.       Thailand's other energy resources include hydro, fuelwood, and oil
shale. Domestic hydro potential is about 9,300 MW of which about 900 MW are
in operation and another 2,200 M1W will be installed by 1990. International
hydro power has enormous potential and may be the cheapest source of elec-
tricity for Thailand in the 1990s. The international rivers, the Mekong,
which forms the border between Thailand and Laos and then flows through
Kampuchea, and the Salween in Burma, together have an estimated hydro
potential, in nine potential projects, of about 24,000 MW with an annual
energy output of 144,000 GWh. This represents about 12 times Thailand's
electricity consumption in 1978 and 3.5 times the forecast electricity



- 11 -
requirement in 1990. The Mekong's development is governed jointly by
Kampuchea, Laos, Thailand, and Viet Nam. The Mekong Secretariat has helped
complete project preparation studies for international hydro projects, but
serious resettlement as well as political problems will have to be addressed
if these hydro resources are to be developed. Oil shale reserves at Mlae Sot
are estimated at 2,500 million tons of oil, but these are uneconomic to
develop at present prices. Fuelwood resources, once plentiful, are rapidly
being depleted and deforestation is becoming a serious problem.
29.       Given the current constraints on other potential energy resources,
development of natural gas and lignite resources is the most immediate means
of reducing Thailand's burden of petroleum imports and meeting growing
energy demands. The development of natural gas raises a number of important
issues. First, current plans for critically needed refinery expansion must
be reassessed in the light of the projected displacement of petroleum
products by indigenous fuels. Although the present expansion proposals
would, if implemented, eliminate most of the gap in product supply, the
proposed mode of expansion would not be optimal from a country point of
view. A preliminary assessment of these proposals indicates that total
refinery output would still result in shortages of middle distillates and
could produce an excess of residual fuel oil. Thus, further analysis is
needed to devise a more economic mode of expansion that would minimize
Thailand's imports of products. Secondly, alternative uses of natural gas,
other than for electricity generation and industrial heat (e.g., in the
petrochemical and fertilizer industries, production of sponge iron amd LPG
extraction) will also need to be studied.
30.       Sector Investment Program.  The investment program for achieving
Thailand's energy supply needs in the 1980's is large, particularly at the
secondary energy stage. The annual oil and gas program will cost in excess
of $300 million, refineries $100 million, and lignite development $50 mil-
lion. By contrast, the power program will cost $800 million annually, less
than 10% of which is for hydro. These figures exclude the possibilities in
international hydro. Other investments in energy production and conserva-
tion and a comprehensive energy program will need to be planned in order to
reduce dependence on imported energy in the 1990s.
31.   Electricity Generation and Distribution.  The Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand (EGAT) is the largest state-owned enterprise and comes
under the jurisdiction of the Prime Minister's Office. In addition to power
generation through hydro, thermal and, potentially, nuclear plants, EGAT is
responsible for exploration and development of lignite for use in power
plants. Retail distribution of electricity is controlled by the Metropolitan
Electricity Authority (MEA) in the metropolitan Bangkok area and the Provin-
cial Electricity Authority (PEA), responsible for distribution in all areas
of Thailand outside greater Bangkok.



- 12 -
32.       Energy Administration.  Under the Office of the Prime Minister,
the National Energy Administration (NEA) has responsibility for overall
energy policy and planning. NEA has been operational for only a few yenrs,
and has concentrated initially on compiling useful energy supply and demand
data. It has also commissioned a number of studies and is scheduled to
undertake, in early 1980, an Energy Master Plan Study to define a program to
meet Thailand's energy requirements up to the year 2000. The Bank will be
closely associated with the study, which will be executed by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) and financed by UNDP. A newly formed Ministry of
Science, Technology and Energy will be responsible for non-conventional
energy.
33.       Oil and Gas Sector.  Although the Government has played a major
role in the power sector, it has reserved a relatively minor part in the oil
and gas sector and has focused on encouraging and complementing private
sector activities in importing and producing, refining, and marketing of
petroleum products in Thailand. Until recently, the Government's direct
involvement in this sector was primarily through a small government market-
ing outlet, the Oil Fuel Organization (OFO), and the establishment of the
Natural Gas Organization of Thailand (NGOT) in 1977 to manag6 the eventual
transmission and distribution of natural gas from the newly discovered
reserves in the Gulf of Thailand (see para. 52). The Petroleum Authority of
Thailand (PTT) was established in December 1978 to institute closer coor-
dination of overall petroleum business and related sector policies. As
previewed in PTT's Act, NGOT was dissolved and merged with PTT in July 1979
and OFO in September 1979. PTT is to take over, prior to December 29, 1980,
the Defense Ministry's Energy Department and its refinery.
34.      Exploration.  Consistent with the Government's policy of encouraging
cooperation between public and private ventures, a number of international
oil companies have been granted concessions to explore for oil and gas in
the Gulf of Thailand. Two overseas groups, headed by Union Oil Company (and
the South East Asia Petroleum Exploration Company) and Texas Pacific Oil
Company (with the Canadian Superior Oil Company and Highland Inc.) are active
in the Gulf of Thailand in search for oil and gas, and have found substantial
gas reserves. The concessionnaires will undertake the development of these
reserves, and PTT will take delivery at the offshore production platforms.
In the initial years much of the gas output will be contracted to EGAT, while
a small proportion will be available to industries located along the onshore
pipeline route and elsewhere.
35.       Oil Refining.  In oil refining, 99% of Thailand's 166,000 bbl/day
capacity is operated by three private enterprise companies. The Thailand
Oil Refining Company (TORC), which has 39% of the country's total capacity
and is under joint ownership of Shell and private Thai interests, is due to
become the property of the Government in 1981 under the terms of the current
expansion permit. The Summit refinery, which also has 39% of total capa-
city, is owned by the Government and leased to the Summit Industrial
Corporation. The ESSO refinery constitutes 21% of capacity. The remaining
1% is operated by the Ministry of Defense. Government participation in the
refineries is being considered in the discussions concerning proposed
refinery expansion, and PTT is expected to become more involved in refinery
management and overall refinery policies as manager of the Government's share.



- 13 -
36~        _ rketi22,- Retail oil product marketing is essentially controlled
by the same organizations that are involved in refining, plus Caltex.  Shell
and ESSO are the largest retailers and are supplied by their own refineries.
Summit operates on a more limited scale, supplying the Government's market-
ing ouclet (now PI) and Caltex. A new company, Samsanpunwang, has been
established recently and is primarily engaged in selling fuel oll.
37.       Pricing Policies.  Thailand has increased its petroleum prices
twice during 1979. Ex-refinery prices are now in line with July Singapore
prices, and will need to be revised as world prices change in the ccming
menths. Xhnilst retail prices have been increased substantially in 1.979,
gasoline and diesel oil prices remain on the low side compared with Western
Europe and some ASEAN countries.
Role of it.e Bank in the -Mtergy Sector
38.        Power Sector.  The Bank has been associated with efforts to
develop Thailand's power generating capacity since the late 1950s. During
this period, it has made nine loans to EGAi ,otalling $362 million and one
loan to the Provincial Electricity Authority tPEA) of $25 million. EGAT's
projects have included dam construction, equ: pment for hydro and thermal
power generation, transmission and substation facilities. Six projects have
been completed and are operating satisfactorily. The most recent loan for
the Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project was approved in April 1979. 'he Bang
Pakong power plant can be fired with both oil and gas, and is expected to
absorb a major portion of the newly contracted natural gas reserves. A loan
for the Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project is under consideration, and a project
for the expansion of lignite mining at Mae Moh, to supply a fourth lpower
unit being financed by the Asian Development Bank, has been appraised. The
loan to PEA in 1978 helped to finance the first phase of the accelerated
rural electrification program.
39.       Natural Gas.  Within the last few years, the Bank has beciome
involved in Thailand's program to exploit the natural gas discoveries in the
Gulf of Thailand. Initially, the Bank helped in identifying and coordinating
basic studies and activities necessary for project preparation, assisting
with terms of reference for consultants to carry out such studies and advising
the Government in setting up a national gas entity (NGOT) responsible for
the construction and operation of a gas pipeline and distribution system.
Over the next three years, during the construction of the pipeline and
through the early years of its operation, the Bank will continue to provide
PTT and the Government with technical and financial support as needed. In
addition to a loan for construction of the gas pipeline system, PTT has asked
the Bank to assist in strengthening PTT's staff capabilities, implementing
refinery expansion decisions and preparing studies for utilization of
natural gas and for energy conservation.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
40.        By late 1977 exploration drilling and market studies had estab-
lished the importance of natural gas to Thailand's economy. A loan of $4.9
million for the Natural Gas Engineering Project (Loan S 10-TH) was approved
in July 1978. Loan S 10-TH, which will be refinanced under the proposed
loan, helped finance the first year's foreign exchange costs of project
management, engineering and preliminary implementation services, training
assistance for NGOT's staff and advisory services in gas technology, gas
reserves, gas contract negotiations and financial services.
41.        The proposed project was appraised in March 1979 on the basis of
the optimization studies for a gas pipeline project carried out under Loan
S 10-TH. Details are provided in the report entitled, "Thailand - Appraisal
of the Natural Gas Development Project" (No. 2612-TH, dated November 5, 1979).
Negotiations were held in Bangkok, from September 17 to 26, 1979. The
Government delegation was headed by Khun Kraisri Chatikavanij, Deputy Director
General, Fiscal Policy Office, and included Dr. Tongchat Hongladaromp,
Governor of PTT.
Gas Reserves and Deliveries
42.     The Union Oil Field, known as the "A" structure, lies approximately
425 km south of Rayong in the central portion of the Gulf of Thailand in
the water depth of about 210 ft (64 meters) (see Map IBRD 13476R). Deline-
ation drilling of the field has been completed and recoverable reserves have
been certified at 1.58 trillion cubic feet (tcf) proved and 0.22 tcf prob-
able by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, a reservoir engineering consulting firm.
Union Oil and PTT have signed a gas sales contract which obligates the
delivery and acceptance, on a "take or pay" basis, of 200 million standard
cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) expected to begin October 1, 1981 for the first
contract year and 250 MMSCFD for each year thereafter. At this production
rate, the gas reserves from the "A" structure are estimated to last about 20
years. Union Oil is in the process of delineating and proving additional
gas reserves in two structures about 60 km north of its "A" structure.
Indications are that these new fields, designated as the "Kaphong" and
"Platong" structures ("C" structure), would contain about 0.5 tcf of
recoverable reserves, and be capable of an initial production rate of 100
MMSCFD. Assuming that the field's potential is confirmed, PTT and Union Oil
intend to enter into a sales contract for the "C" structure reserves, and
deliveries could start sometime in 1983.
43.       The Texas Pacific Field, known as the "B" structure, is located
about 170 km southeast of the "A" structure in slightly deeper water (about
245 feet). The field is much larger than the "A" structure and Texas
Pacific has not fully delineated the field. However, based on data from 10
wells drilled Into the structure, all of which were successful, DeGolyer and
MacNaughton has estimated recoverable reserves at 1.3 tcf proved and 4.5 tcf



- 15 -
probable. PTT and Texas Pacific are negotiating a gas supply contract, and
Texas Pacific is expected to begin delivery 45 months after the dat:e of
signing, probably no sooner than two years after the Union Oil deliveries
begin, that is, around September 1983.
44.       Gas Reserves and Costs of Delivery.  The current estimated costs
to PTT of taking the gas from "A" and "B" structures, including interest
during construction, are $736 million. These include $514 million for "A"
structure, and about $220 million for "B" structure. The corresponding
total investment by the oil companies is estimated to be about $740 million.
Although the proposed loan would go only toward financing the pipeline to
Union Oil's "A" structure, the broader project concept includes the eventual
extension of the pipeline system to recover the reserves from "B" and "C"
structures as well.
Description of the Prolect
45.       The Pipeline System. The proposed project constitutes the initial
phase during which will be harnessed the offshore natural gas reserves
discovered by the Union Oil Company. It comprises a pipeline system to
transport gas from Union Oil's "A" structure to shore and to distribute it
to industrial consumers, which, in the initial years, will be chiefly the
power generating stations in South Bangkok and Bang Pakong. The conces-
sionaire will bear the costs involved in developing the gas production
facilities. The pipeline system includes the following principal compo-
nents:
(a) a 34" offshore buried pipeline from Union Oil's production plat-
form to landfall near Rayong approximately 425 km in length;
(b) a 34" onshore buried pipeline from landfall to a termina.L a short
distance inland and from the terminal a 28" buried pipeline
to the Bang Pakong and South Bangkok power generating stations
of EGAT;
(c) infrastructure comprising metering, dew point control,
communications, supervisory control, telemetry, maintenance,
office and staff support facilities at the terminal and an
operations center near Bang Pakong;
46.       Pipe diameters have been optimized on the basis of a total design
flow rate of 500 MMSCFD, half coming from the "A" structure and half from
the "B" structure, and the capability to expand total flow to over 700 MMSCFD.
It is recognized that this pipe size is not the least-cost solution in case
the proposed pipeline system is connected the "A" structure alone; however, it
is highly unlikely that reserves from the "B", "C" and other structures
will remain unexploited for very long. Furthermore, the proposed pipeline
to "A" structure alone still represents a highly attractive project, yielding
an economic rate of return of 53% at the June 1979 equivalent fuel oil value
($2.75/mcf) of the natural gas.



- 16 -
47.        Project Design for New Reserves.  Upon gas becoming available
from "B" and "C" structures, and provided funds are available from the
proposed loan, project design will be undertaken for the engineering,
construction and installation of an offshore buried pipeline, connecting
these structures to structure "A" and the 34" pipeline, and relevant
scraper, launching and metering facilities.
48.        Technical Assistance.  The proposed project includes consultants'
services, training of staff, special studies and technical assistance,
which will assist PTT and the Office of Natural Gas to assume additional
responsibilities important to the project and to overall energy sector
management. These are (a) consultants services for the project design,
management, engineering, procurement and construction supervision [Section
3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement]; (b) training of PTT staff in the
administration, operation and maintenance of a high pressure natural gas
pipeline transportation and distribution system [Sections 3.02(b) and 3.08
of the draft Loan Agreement]; (c) assistance to PTT in the maintenance and
audit of its accounts by financial consultants [Section 5.02(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement]; (d) a gas utilization study to evaluate the priority users
of the gas from the standpoint of their economic costs and benefits; (e) a
refinery expansion study to determine the mix and pricing of refined pro-
ducts; (f) technical advisory services to assist PTT in refinery expansion
decisions and their implementation and maintenance of an information system
relating to the petroleum sector [Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement];
and (g) an energy audit of major industries to help reduce energy use in
industry and to determine economical use of alternate energy sources [Sec-
tions 3.02(c) and 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement].
The Borrower
49.        PTT was established by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand Act
dated December 20, 1978, with the mandate to engage in and promote petroleum
business, including all matters concerned with or related to petroleum and
petrochemical industries. The Ministers of Defense and Industry are jointly
in charge of the PTT Act for a period of two years since its date of
effectiveness (December 28, 1978). After the two-year period, the Minister
of Industry will assume sole responsibility from end-1980.
50.        PTT's Board of Directors, appointed by the Council of Ministers,
comprises a chairman (currently the Prime Minister) and a maximum of ten
directors, one each from the Ministries of Defense, Finance, Commerce,
Industry and the Juridical Council and five others. The Governor of PTT,
who is its chief executive officer, is secretary of the Board. Under the
Governor, there are three Deputy Governors responsible for administration,
operations, and technology and planning. During negotiations, agreement was
reached on PTT's corporate and financial performance (see para. 60 and Sched-
dule 5 of the Draft Loan Agreement) and that the Government will review these
plans periodically with the Bank (Section 2.04 of the Guarantee Agreement).



- 17 -
51.       Office of Natural Gas.  On July 15, 1979, PTT took over NGOT and
its staff of approximately 100 employees. The natural gas operations
formerly assigned to NGOT will be carried out by the Office of Natural Gas,
to be maintained as an operationally independent unit maintaining separate
accounts within PTT (Sections 4.01(b)(i) and 5.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Office will be operated under the supervision of q[ualified
and experienced management and under the direction of a competent Director
who will report directly to the Governor of PTT. The appointment cof the
Director will be made in consultation with the Bank [Sections 4.01(b)(ii)
and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement]. To meet the operational role! of the
office in 1980, PTT would need to recruit and train operations and main-
tenance personnel. PTT has agreed to review its training plans for the
Office of Natural Gas with the Bank and to initiate a satisfactory training
program by March 1, 1980 (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). A
staffing plan for the Office will be submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1980
(Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       PTT's Institutional Responsibilities.  PTT has also taken over
the Oil Fuel Organization (OFO) and its 2,000 employees at end-September
1979, and is expected to take over, before the end of 1980, the Defense
Energy Department. The latter includes the Fang oil field and refinery,
employing approximately 500 people. PTT will participate in the planned
expansion of the Summit, TORC and ESSO refineries and manage the Govern-
ment's share in these refineries. These activities will greatly increase
in scope and diversity over the next few years and present PTT witlh more
complex management responsibilities. PTT is aware of this and has agreed to
utilize expert advisory services on refinery decisions and implementation,
and employ consultants to help in undertaking new responsibilities and in
instituting a management information system relating to the petroleum sector
[Sections 3.02(c) and 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement]. The Government has
agreed to consult with the Bank in the event of a reorganization oE the
energy sector which might affect the natural gas operations (Section 3.02 of
the draft Guarantee Agreement).  Further, the Government will ensure that
PTT and other appropriate agencies collaborate in the formulation and
implementation of the Government's policies for the energy sector (Section
3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The total cost of the proposed project ("A" structure) is esti-
mated at $514 million (including interest during construction of $32 million
and duties and taxes of $73 million) with a foreign exchange component of
$340 million. The cost estimates are based on critical materials contracts
being placed no later than November 1979, service contracts by February 1980,
and the present project schedule being maintained. Total contingencies amount
to $64.4 million, about 12.5% of base cost at mid-1978 prices and were
calculated on the basis of assumed annual rates of escalation of 6.5% per year
on foreign exchange costs for equipment, material and civil works except for
the line pipe, offshore pipelaying and pipe coating and wrapping. A physical
contingency of 10% was applied to all costs, and local costs were escalated at



- 18 -
9% per year over the project duration. Project engineering management and
construction supervision costs are based on 5,000 man-months, using an average
cost of $7,100 per man-month for expatriate personnel based at home, $8,600
per man-month for expatriate personnel based in Thailand and $1,900 per
man-month for Thai engineering firms participating in the project together
with a profit fee estimated at $4 million.
54.       Financing Plan.  The project costs will be met by the proposed
Bank loan of $107 million (about 24% of total project costs net of taxes and
duties), Suppliers' or Export Credits amounting to $180 million, and
commercial bank loans of about $150 million. The Government's contribution
to equity, about $77 million, would cover the cost of land and right-of-way
and capital taxes payable on the project by PTT [Section 2.02(b) of the
draft Guarantee Agreement]. For a number of contracts not being financed by
the Bank, tendering has proceeded to the award stage, and contracts for
these are expected to be awarded prior to Board presentation. These will be
financed by export credit agencies and commercial banks. Commitments in
excess of $250 million have been obtained from export credit agencies for
financing of project. items purchased in these countries [Section 7.01(a) of
the draft Loan Agreement]. In view of PTT's lack of prior income-generation
operations, the Government's budgetary constraints and the security provided
by PTT's sales agreements with EGAT, part of the costs of the proposed
project, including a portion of local costs, will be financed from foreign
loans. Commercial bank financing is being sought to fund local currency
costs, the balance of foreign currency costs of contracts partially financed
through export credits, and other items. It was agreed that commercial
loans of $75 million will be effective by May 31, 1980 and the balance by
May 31, 1981 [Section 6.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement]. In addition, a
$40 million revolving credit has also been arranged to finance working
capital needs and any capital payments required prior to receiving various
tranches of the longer term commercial loans. It has been agreed that a
facility in this amount will be maintained throughout the duration of the
project [Section 6.01(f) of the draft Loan Agreement].
55.       The Proposed Loan.  The proposed Bank loan of $107 million would
cover the following components: (a) offshore pipelaying ($66.5 million);
(b) onshore pipelaying ($15 million); (c) Consultancy Services and Training
and Gas Utilization Study ($1.5 million); (d) refinery expansion and energy
audit studies ($2 million); (e) project design ($4 million) and costs of
project design for "B" and "C" structures on gas becoming available and
provided funds under the proposed loan are available; (f) interest during
construction ($7 million); (g) contingencies ($6.1 million); and (h) refin-
ancing Loan S-1OTH ($4.9 million). By the time this loan is signed, PTT
would have disbursed approximately $3.0 million in project design and the
consultants' services.  It is proposed that the payments made for consultancy
services after September 30, 1979, not exceeding $3.0 million, are
retroactively financed from the proposed loan (para. 4 of Schedule 1 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Implementation and Construction
56.       All project preparation activities and preliminary engineering
funded by Loan S-10-TH have been completed. These include marine and land
surveys, the optimization study and prequalification and tendering for major
contracts and long delivery materials and equipment. A report has been pre-
pared covering the economic and financial evaluation of the project and the
financing plan. Acquisition of land and right-of-way is proceeding satis-
factorily [Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement]. PTT's Office of Natural
Gas will have overall responsibility for the project. Its engineiering and
management consultant will oversee all aspects of project execution. Con-
struction activities are scheduled to begin in February 1980 in order to
complete the pipeline no later than July 1, 1981. This will allow three
months to test the system and to make it fully operational by October 1, 1981.
To ensure timely implementation of the project, in accordance wit]h the imple-
mentation schedule agreed between PTT and the Bank, PTT will institute a
progress control system satisfactory to the Bank [Section 3.04(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement].
Procurement
57.       The offshore and onshore pipelaying contracts to be partially
financed out of the proposed loan would be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. All other
project imports, insofar as practical, will be procured through international
competitive bidding. To avoid delay in the completion of the project, advance
contracting is necessary for long lead time items including: line pipe ($90
million), pipe fittings and valves ($8 million), and the pipe wrap and coating
contract ($56 million). These items are being procured through international
competitive bidding but are not included in the items to be financed out of
the proposed loan.
Disbursements
58.       Disbursement of the proposed loan would take place against (a) 70%
of total expenditures of the offshore and onshore pipe laying contracts,
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for PTT staff training, (c) 100% of the
cost of project design, technical advisory services, the refinery, gas
utilization, and energy audit studies, interest during construction on the
Bank loan, and refinancing of Loan S-10-TH. It has been agreed that no with-
drawals will be made until a satisfactory contract has been executed for
consultants' services for project management and construction supervision
(para. 5, Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements by the
Bank are expected to be completed by the end of 1983.
Financial Position
59.       PTT's Corporate and Financial Objectives.  PTT's medium- and longer-
term financial position will be determined primarily by the gas projects and
by the refinery developments. Given the unknowns, particularly on the form
and size of the refinery developments and the future of products marketing,



- 20 -
no overall financial forecast has been made for PTT. Instead, PTT has
adopted a statement of corporate and financial objectives, reflecting a
commercial attitude towards its pricing policies, cash flow management, debt
-revice and profitability, together with the prepa-alt'on of corporate a       s.
Each of PTT's major activities will have its own independent pricing,
financial and economic policies, as well as separate accounts [Schedule 5
of the draft Loan Agreement]. A review mechanism has been agreed upon
between the Government and PTT for periodical re-examination of the
financial position and development plans of PTT [Section 2.04 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement].
60.       Until the gas comes onstream, PTT's Office of Natural Gas will be
operating under liquidity constraints and with a limited capital budget.
Within a few years of starting operations, however, the cash flow generated
by the project would be sufficient to cover operating expenses of the Office
and an appropriate proportion of capital investments for future gas explora-
tion and development. In the meantime, PTT's gas supply contract with Union
Oil, linked to various escalation factors, substantially insulates it from
the full impact of world oil price increases, including those of 1979.  The
ageed price level for these reserves is based on 1976 costs and oil prices,
and the price escalation formula is based 40% on international fuel oil
prices quoted in Singapore, 30% on Thai wholesale prices, and 30% on US
export prices, with a lag of a little more than one year. Effectiveness of
the Union Oil Contract is subject to: (a) proving of 1 trillion cubic feet
of recoverable reserves, which was achieved in March 1979; and (b) approval
by the US Internal Revenue Service of the eligibility of the Thai taxes paid
by Union Oil as credits against US taxes. Suitable action to legislate
changes in Thai Laws, agreed between the Government, PTT and Union Oil, and
which will be accepted as meeting this requirement, is being taken as a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan [Section 7.01(iii) of the
draft Loan Agreement]. By 1986, the Office of Natural Gas will have a
strong financial position, with retained earnings in excess of $200 million,
an average return on assets of 17%, a 43/57 debt equity ratio and a debt
service coverage of 2.1. Annual income during the 1980s is expected to
average $360 million.
61.       The major factors affecting the financial position of the Office
of the Natural Gas include the terms and price levels for the gas purchase
contract with Texas Pacific, the terms of PTT's gas sales agreements with
EGAT, and the gas division's overall capital program cost and long-term
financing plan. The financial risks of the proposed project are minimized
by the fact that important features of PTT's gas supply contract with Union
Oil are also incorporated into its sales agreements with EGAT. These features
include: (i) a "take or pay" basis for gas purchases; and (ii) a periodic
price adjustment provision to ensure that the price of gas to EGAT is
maintained at a level close to 90% of the international fuel price. It has
been agreed that PTT and the Government shall not change the terms of the
contract between EGAT and PTT without prior Bank approval [Sections 3.07 and
6.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.03 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement]. In addition, PTT has agreed, with respect to its natural gas
operations, (i) not to incur debt which would reduce the debt service



- 21 -
coverage of the Office of Natural Gas to below 1.2 for the years 1982
through 1985 and 1.5 thereafter (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement);
and (ii) to make specific provision for its own cash needs for natural gas
before passing on any part of the profits from its natural gas operations
(Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Market
62.        The gas from the Union Oil's "A" structure will be used in EGAT's
dual-fired power plants at Bang Pakong and South Bangkok. Any addlitional
reserves from "B" or "C structures that are not contracted to EGAT will
supply industry along the pipeline route and elsewhere.
Project Benefits and Risks
63.        The project will have a major impact on Thailand's energy future.
It will help resolve the problem experienced during 1979 of securing
reliable oil supplies for power generation and reduce the threat of rapid
increases in international oil prices. Through its technical assistance
components, the project will help PTT to assume its new responsibilities in
natural gas development, refinery management, and overall energy sector
planning. In addition, the special studies on refinery expansion,, gas
utilization, and energy conservation will provide a solid framework for the
development of a comprehensive energy strategy for Thailand.
64.        Ignoring the substantial tax benefits to the Government, the
landed cost of gas would be only two-thirds the international price of the
equivalent fuel oil. Net foreign exchange savings would be positiLve in
every year and average about $200 million. In the event that a sales
contract for additional gas from the "B" or "C" structures is agreed, the
project with an additional pipeline would yield additional foreign exchange
earnings of over $100 million a year. The project, covering the UJnion Oil's
"A" structure, has an economic rate of return of 53% at current fuel oil
prices and yields a net present value (at 10% discount rate) of $L.25 billion.
65.        Risks.  The project carries the risks generally associated with an
offshore gas pipeline facility. All practical measures are being taken to
minimize them, and none of these risks is considered a significant deterent
to the project. Gas reserves have been confirmed by a competent reservoir
consulting firm and total proven and probable reserves are about 5 times the
level needed to make the project economic. Experienced consultants have
been appointed for all phases of the project, and only contractors with
extensive offshore experience will be employed in offshore construction.
Barring unforeseen accidents or weather, sufficient time has been allocated
to meet the completion schedule, particularly as failure to accept gas
deliveries on the contract date of October 1, 1981, could cost PTT about
$240,000 per day. A single supply line is subject to interruption; however,
EGAT is equipped to fire its boilers with either gas or oil and has
sufficient oil storage capacity for such an emergency. The risk of cost
overrun is small as the major contracts will be let before the end of 1979.



- 22 -
Ecoogyani Safety
66.        The proposed project does not pose serious ecological problems.
With the assistance of its consultants, PTT has prepared an environmental
protection program to cover construction and operation of the pipeline. The
Thai National Environmental Board has developed guidelines for PTT's prepa-
ration of an environmental impact statement, and a draft copy of the state-
ment has been received by the Bank. The Thai guidelines require PTT to have
an environmental protection staff.
67.       The project should improve air quality in the South Bangkok area
by making a clean burning sulfur-free fuel available in place of the sulfur-
bearing soot producing fuel oil now consumed. Both the onshore and offshore
pipelines will be buried to a depth of at least three feet to minimize
accidental damage. A supervisory control system will monitor operating
conditions and provide adequate warning and shutdown functions in the event
of deviations from safe limits. PTT's training program will cover safety
and preventive maintenance.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Petroleum Authority of
Thailand and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. In addition to the
features of the proposed project which are referred to in the text and
listed in Section III of Annex III, other features of particular interest
being conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement) are:
(a) Conditions for effectiveness of the Export Credits Commitments
totalling $250 million have been satisfied or other arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, have been agreed for the financing of
the goods and services.
(b) PTT's gas sales contract with EGAT has been duly executed and
delivered on behalf of PTT and EGAT.
(c) PTT's gas supply contract with Union Oil is being maintained and
that all necessary action (including legislative action) in this
respect has been taken.
In addition, no withdrawals will be made until a satisfactory contract has
been executed for consultants' services for project management and construc-
tion supervision [Section 3.02(a) and para. 5, Schedule 1 of the draft Loan
Agreement].



- 23 -
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 20, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5pages
TmIAnD   - SOCIAL IDICATOILS DATA SHEET
"Art A5FIRUcE1C G15 (ROS                             A
LAW A     __ (TRO03 __D SO, 01.)                                          - MOST RUmET
TOL             514.0                                                 SAKS        SA11    NM  ERCU
AMaICULTURAL    179.6                               N    RRCS TGRA1UIC    UcO                IR7
1960  b    1970 A T1n  L           u^oo /   0m1 a    GROUP L
GP PE CAPIT  (C8                    100.0      210.0    490.0            528.9     467.5      1097.7
E1E11T COISSCPTIO  PM  CAPTA
(xILOCGRAS OP COLL ltqfAL T)      64.0       247.0    308.0           371.1      262.1       730.7
POPMlATIO  AND VYUL STAZIMCS
P0PULATION, MI-TAA (QEL3IS)    26.4           35.7      43.3
UlEA  POPMlA2I  (PECENT C TOTAL) 12.0         13.0      14.0            27.4      24.6        49.0
POPOLATION  OJETIOU
PO7ATI0   15 TER  2000 CM31.100S)                     69.0
S!TIONARY POPULATIO N    .LII)                       105.0
TEA STATIORAT POPM.ATIWK I UCD                      2095
POPULAT7O  Dos TT
PU SQ. cl.                       51.0       69.0      84.0           154.8      45.3        44.6
PU SQ. DI. AGICMR.TUAL LAD    206.0        251.0    244.0           566.7      149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGS STROCTURS (PERCEN)
0-14 YrS.                        44.7       46.2      45.0           41.3       45.2        41.3
15-64 TIs.                       52.6        50.6      52.0           54.9       51.9        55.3
65  S. AD AonV                    2.7         3.0       3.0            3.3        2.8         3.5
POPMATIOU cMYLI RATE (PRCRET)
TOTAL                             2.8        3.0       2.8             2.4       2.7         2.4
DEAN                              5.1        3.6       3.5            4.3        4.3         4.5
CRDN SIWIR RATS (PM TIDUS4)        UA.0       42.0      32.0           30.2       39.4        31.1
CRUDE D0AT3  RATE (PM TPOGU&D)    17.0        12.0       8.0            8.3       11.7         9.2
GROSS R1EP8COU       E               ..        3.2       2.2            2.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY P.AEIU
ACCIPEOILS  AIAL (TIS   DS)        ..      203. OA   527.0
USERS (tPUCJI Or NAD  Wtm)    ..            27.4      32.3           34.1       13.2        34.7
ooD UD A llROITIOI
WOKEt o 01 PO PWOWCTI0N
P  CAPITA (1969-71-100)         68.0      l10.0    110.0            106.2       99.6       104.4
P C&PITA SWpLy of
CAWILIS (PUCUT 0O
8ElIM7T3S)                     96.0      103.0    107.0           104.1       94.7       105.0
PROTEIS (GRAMS Et DAT)          43.5        52.2      50.0           57.4       54.3        64.4
olr VICI ANIMAL AID PULSI       8.4         ..      14.6            16.9      17.4        23.5
CRILD (AGO 1-4) MTALZT RATE        15.0        9.0       6.0            4.8       11.4         8.6
.Sll
LIn  £VNIACT AT SIM  (TIA)   51.0             57.0      61.0           61.1       54.7       60.2
IANT MOTALuT  RATE (PM
TYOUSABO)                           ..        86.0jj   68.0           46.6       68.1       46.7
ACCESS TO SAYS WATER (PERCWT oI
POPMlATION)
TOTAl                              ..       17.0      22.0           21.9       34.4        60.8
URBAN                             ..          ..      49.0           46.2       57.9       75.7
UAL                               ..          ..      12.0           12.8       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO ZXCRTA DISPOSL (PUCUT
OP POPUIATION)
TOTAL                             *-        17.0      40.0           28.4       40.8        46.0
URBANI                             ..       65.0      58.0           65.0       71.3       46.0
RURAL                             ..         8.0      36.0           14.7       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PE  PIESICIAI        7800.0      8420.0   8370.0          3790.5    6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION PER NURNSIN  PUSO    4900.0      3340.0   1510.0          1107.4    1522.1      i195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1340.01L    890.0    800.0           613.3      726.5      453.4
URBAN                             ..       280.0    240.0           203.6      272.7      253.1
lURAL                             ..      1380.0   1290.0          1110.3    1404.4    .2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        31.0      33.0           23.9       27.5       22.1
HOUSING
AV6AGZ SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5-5/f       5.8       5.5            5.2        5.4        5.3
RiA"                             5.3/f       5.9       5.5             ..        5.1        5.2
RURAL                            5.6/f       5.8       5.5             ..        5.5        5.4
AVERAGE HMIEI OP PERSONS PE ROOK
MOTAL                              .          .        2.4             ..        .,         1.9
URBAN                             ..          ..       2.2             ..         ..        1.6
RURAL                             ..          ,,       2.4             ..        ..         2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICrIT (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..          ..      24.6             ..       :3.1       50.0
HRBAN                             ..        63.O .&     .              ..       45. 1       71. 7
RLURAL                             .        13.0        . °.                     9.9       17.3



- 25 -
ANNEX I
PAGE 2 of 5 pages
ws- 60.&.UIC?           D4 SN
=UAW                     IMN   UIE  *OUUl
-u-S
~~~~L uinwm  ~~~~~~~~~~~M    ~ouNM   VC                                                101
s:           WAL                   8.0         21.0      8.0              97.9       IL7         10.5
mul                  6'.0         65.0,     610               1.7       07.3       10B6.
mUo                  79.0         77.0      70.0            97.4        73.6        97.1
Sc     I     TOTAL                 1.0         180          .0            4LZ        2.4          33.5
NMU                  US.O        lU.0       29.0            46.7        33.0        38.4
Town                  9.0         15.0      2.0             40.9        13.5        30.7
VOC&AINL iAL. (I 01 61003DA6)    19.0              24.0       13.0            12.3         9.6       1.5
T                                  38.0        35.0      30.0             3.5        34.1         35.8
st      f                          a#5.0       18.0      21.0             25.0       2.4          n.9
LW.T UTUA3T I=  (PM T)               68.0        7t.0       U.0             91.1       54.0         84.0
NOPRATZM                            2.0         5.0       6.4              6.1        9.3         13.5
6422  IIW       31  _42
N6*2011                             8.0        78.0     131.0            86.4        76.9        122.7
ti m
T   hA.41U                          2.3         7.0      17.0             2L4        13.5        38.3
-           (M  TfL
W) CmAin M
761    201L*U1                       11.0        24.0        ..             24.2      1I.3         40.0
CmM  iNuil. AnIMAM   cU12    ..                    ..        1.7             3.8        2.5          3.7
L Iw% (1U6&i)    12717.0                      11163.0   16514.0
1364    (P91=14)                   46.3        47.3      46.9             3.7        29.         25.0
iCUIcILSIIU (P0)                   83.7        79.9      77.0             54.6       *2.7        43.5
DwMT (Ptk )                        4.4          6.0        *.0            16.3       11.9        21.53
PIZTICXPLXU 6411 (130!
PA CP1.                              51.3 4E.8             45.6             40.7       37.1        13.5
mz                                    2.7        49.3      4.6              49.9       46.8       4U.0
*-31                                *49.8        43.9      42.4             31.0       30.4       1U.S
tICGUNI  D3PWl! U4110                   1.0         1.1        1.1             1.1        1.4          1.4
InC         or puBy   D
uah=  I 1      2 02  UmLU S   2.kb    2f.83I.           14      /         14.9       15.2        20.6
11GM T 20 ti         or  0L06   S.o7           4      [ .2j] U.6                     4.2         52.1
WuT 20  MD e=       11 81      * .2 7    6.1            7. 6               .2   *     .3         5.9
TWMI3! 40 1303206 30063036   14.95             13 .9   19.LI              18.6       18.3        12.4
POUT rTh P1Cf
LTDWAT 4860 131    O0i! IOMMN O
VM nnau toumm  t  Dca 
RLmL (066 CUS011)
ism  m       c                       ..          ..     126.0            193.1      241.3       270.0
622*1.                               .,          .,      94.0            128.7      136.6       10.3
U6ThED  114111967 ron UcUS
ISL    (06$ PU CAPI1A)
..                                               ..     115.0            134.8      179.7       282.5
L                                    ..          ..     106.0             98.6      Iu3.7       24d.9
ISTNTZD PO7,LAO  U3 0V
PO   ! tI L       LVE. (13L3I)
an"t                                 ..          ..      15.0             32.0       24.6        20.5
UI3L                                 ..          ..      34.0             52.5       37.5        35.3
Not available
not applicable.
The adjusted group avrages for ech indicator are populatlto.s-ightod Poutric seMs * ecluding the attro_
valuse of the indicator md the  at populated coutry In each group. Coverage of comatries  ane the
LdLcators depend  an availability of dta sd is not unt ifaM.
/b    Unless othervLs  vAoted, data for 1960 refer to any rear betwen       * 1959 6ad 191; for 1970  bteen 1969
mad 1971; asd fog  oslt Recent   tic te  betwen 1974 nd 1977.
/c    East ASIA A Petific;  /d  La_ar Middle Imaom  (S21-550 per capita 1976);  /a  Intta_iata  Middl
Sncow ($551-1135 per caIta. 1976);   if  1962;   I  Percent of populAtion in Is4agk metropolitan
srea;   Ih  1962-63;  /1  1968;  Li  Prelilaary data for 1975/76. dua to lack of dta on astiosl
beats* the  eothodology ?-r asareating  the available regioal data overtates income  of low iacom
groups and   derstates imcoam  of higbhr incom  groups.  Thus, this data is not auitable for any
analytical coaris;   /k  Government;  /1  1964-195.
4Ost "ecot  stImtte of CUP per capita is for 1978.
Insut. 1979



-  6     -
ANNEX I
lots.   A,ltho.gh the dot.  eec  oC                                  8OT    IAi  MICA7t.                                                          Pag         3   bf   5   pages
Not..:Altb.,b th.   t.  -   dl-   r-   . g-~    jodgod the  -.0t cothorittie. soo rlibis  it 000.1d .1.0 be  cted thet they  -y at he 1.0.4..
tie.1.ly Cw-,bl. eehc..  of the lack of etoo.Wdiod defitoits   aed reCepe.0t. -  by dUifecct   -etft.. to Coilecting the dot.. Th. dAta.  ..ee., the-.,c
o.flto de..rib  ord-or f ci    mitod., indi.ste treed., .d CJ. t-.teto  esti   m.o-  iffre.-     bet..   -0st,is..
The  G,y                      fo  e.oh idl-tor  -r  pepeltio-eight.d s-trlo..e , eoIcdig the sotre    v.10   of the jaijetor .0d the  -Iet po                             to
t.67i  .&e. . boto lwok of dat., gr.p   -M..ge  of oil iodio.tors   f- Cpitel loop1.. Oil loportor. m  of Ui06±ost  of Ac...-  be Laote                                    .o.
Me1oo.,  eolg,   o   Moteihtlo  .d0 lo-eety for othe- 0.-t7 gwcp.  -r Poi.1.tio---ightsd geetrlo    -   eitht  -ewl-et  of the cetre    weta.                            d
tar  ARM  (t  -o.d  q. .~.                                                                   Io.,t    rt  Muol(e-et ~of ..It!oe - total   rs.                               ee 
otl  .f-.e  -r. oWi.img 1.06 cr-  .0  1.1.d  otor..                                 MLor  opopetta,                 -    0swlseCod b - et.  Lpqe.a   -
JTo~r1-beet  -wet e.tit. of  Wioolbtrei cre  oed t.Wrori1y                          p-etag.. of theit eeeli   popalati.... Zeret. diepo.l UV  11f
or pe.e.tI  foe Ceop, peat.., e.kht .04 011t1.0  -or0  o  to                              the Oo11ctioo .06 dl.100, with  - .itbt trat-t, of b                       Wrne.
lie  foUr-.                                                                                00   ..0.0-t- by  .t--bo.e   y.0    o- the  -.  of pLt prli.  ad                 l.
icot.itioo.
-uP p- Cpqt. 0..tM00 at e,0rte s.oht prio.,                                               L.~i i-  -Psc."ti-   di.4d.dby  .k-  of pr.tilej. pWgjeie1
1g6o, 1970,  w0 1978 dOt-               oo..41.                                                                               - Popl1tiin dirided by  ~.be  of pratioim  eel
yCONwyMETC  .- CAnT?, - A-.ol   -           toof ecci.al              W-dr                        .Sm".             .  POttOl.   er.O, .06 ..iotet    -e.
(calee  lis.1to   peoo       setsl g. .0d bydr--  001-.  .0  Se-Poo.io   e  10.7,11.1 .06 - total                                              --.0  Ico     - Popeistios (tota, .eb.,
theewl electriCity) io hi1           of co-l eqoll    per Copit.; 1960,                      00   ooi7 d1r6d by their  .wpele    e               fboptl bed. aftiioh.in t
1970, .06 1976 dte,.                                                                         bloeik.6pte.~er1.6e.iiodb.pt ..0a  I                              btob i.ie   ~s
i4-i.e.cotob1Lic.t. p-.ea.tly  tof fd by .t 10.0t  -o   eheto.1.
oPUIATION AID Vf?AL STATISTICS                                                                 E.tbliekwt. p-Idogid   "rip.ellIy cotodie1  -r  or  mt 1.0106.. lr-l
TstOAP,m.t1o        0-Ta   ailo.  - A. of boly 1; 19b0, 1970. sod                            toep1taLe, ho-cr, 110.M beoIthb  .06adic-I  e.-ter. aot pe                tly  *t.fed
197  dt.                                                                               by o pb.i.ioo  (bet by a -dioci eocltoet,  -.re, aid.1fe, etc.) Miob offer
tOhe P00ltlo_lorc-t of toto1l  - 0Rt10 of -b-s to totl1 Po.i.tioe;                           i.-petlet ocoetioe    d peond. . lidttd r-og  of -dio.  foeiliti-..
difeo   deiett_e  of or. o.  -y effeCt Ccq-oalilty of dot.                         Ad           ~H.       .    e  - Totol 0eber of .4.o-l.oo  to or 6i.ob-.rg     fo.
-~co.otrieo; 176, .1970, .0d 197  640                                                  ho          l,tle .140by the   ~.r.  of bed..
ftpe.et11- Pro.10t19
ti- i. y-   20 o0 -rC-t  oP.dItioe projetios. .r  bcced o                  uJSmiU
I90  t`toipopoi.ti   by ago.0  ceo  -0or .tclity sod fertility                        kveag  Sioe of Idoocboid (r.o.._ pe   adeol)- oal                                 ,I oe  -
r.tee. Prjci0Poeloefo  stity reo    ~ieof throc                                         A boo.ehod ooee.  f.go. lt6iia..  s   hr.la   qarter. .0d
lore). o.06..   Ut.oop.toco   at hbrtb locre-ilg eith Cootry,                   theo  eio -. 0...  A he.rder or lods.r   W  r           ct he 1.0.dd 10 the
per cePit. icoe   Ilevl  .0d f.-ie life coPetoocy et.hllllg ot                          hoocebld for ettieti..a PerPe....
77.5 yea..  The p.-Ot.. for fetility rt.t  else he.- throc leve.                                                 ffroeM6rofee.w   o totol  orb.0   0   oe      cr     ee
.ceosog decIi-c is fertility accordlg to toce   le-e  .0d pat                          Of poer-?  peer coe  1.       ob,         coaoepidc otic.ia AeIlisge
f.ail  c1.ioe g perfoewa. 1.0b costry i. thee a.ig.ed ose of thece                      roop"tivel.  D-wiieg  .0.0..  apcw                  t .tracor     .0d oeccpid part..
olSe c-1.ti.0- of eert.lity 004 fertility tr-do for projeotico6c.  ofetrot   pretc  d..U.a)- ttelKlrb ..      core  -  Coo-
toorp....                                                                               -etioso  dolig    iheotiiyt   otg                      otr   apeectoge of
St:ticeoy cc.oletioo - to e- ettioaor  pojol.tioo therO  1.00 gr-thO                       t.te1, ,rto, cod rore1 d-Uiege  -.petiv.ly.
ojoe  he  trb  rt.0.  qoI to the d..th rete, .06 csc the .ge
.tcutore  -eios  -catot. ?hie i0 schieved oo1y Otte  fertility rateo                OISATIOE      -I-
delo   othe replaeet level of -01ist   rpcoeiooo    h.                     ~       j~ v.9 o
ceh geecrtbc   of   - rcpl-.c  it.cfelicotly.  The etticoory Polo.-                    Priwoc7ho  i771.6.L7 -.i .06 fl.   0- ,.  totoL, -elo .0  fele  osrll.
1.1100 slei.. -catleted C0 the hbe1o of the pcojeted chrceioiet cf all a.. et the  r.00   oe                                            p.rCit.1g  of roOpetiwe pria.ry
of te ptetios is the ye.- 200, .o4 the rate of deoli.e of fertility                       ochocl-fg. popeetioe..; ecreely  -I.Al.  ebiliew   g.g0  6-11 year  hot
rote to rcyloceet lece.                                                                   04,10td for d1fferet 1-gt. of priwory  Metie; for cosetri. with
Yoo Mt.tio.r   pp.loti.e L. reehod - The year ah.. Ot.ti-.7 pepoltios                        ooiceroo   edoctioc .erolt   W  mew.0   IM  peest Cloc an  pepil.
01c  hbe  be.r.hd..chi.  o-  b.0c   the oft1cie  sehel q.10
Mpo.olti.0 Dceoity                                                                          10007eho-toi   .    06f e     C..td 00 W.1.; ecoood.y
Per 00. ka.. Xid-yeec pop,oitioo per o-,  kil-t.r (100 heOtorc) of                          edcto   oor.StlOtfWp                         f 0490    prhrp  iS.tcotioo;
101.1 cree                                                          yrocl~~~~~~~p-dc. gSer.1  -.etio-1a, or toeChes tredlift  i.trotico- for popilo
Pere.   .  vt..Loto,al 1I0d - Ceepeted -   b.00     for og,icoItoe1 1.0d                     -.aly of 12 t  17 year. oage; oo-repoed-  Coecree  r.- Seral11y
Ph,.l. tioc ASe St-ot-cr  Cere.) - Cihld-e  (0-14 .-po.),  -k,010-age                         ooiol.eolh(sos   fcoay        oai.li.lois    sl
(15-6A ye,)   0   rie    h   or   o                                                          .c)c   ecoae   i.4y.  C.heC.,                min111   rohrpeg  00  operte iedep.deotlycrs
Po.Paotio    16, 1970, cod 1977 dote..dprt    t.c0ayiclot.
roecdatl0 Gr-eth dote (pRcet)l                 A ce   .0.-1 cr0th r-te. of toted aid-        PpOil-tecchr retic - prO. 0  .006,   Tot.1 .td6 t.  -or1lid to
pea  yoolotiosc fr- 10-h,100, -co  I97-77.                                                  pri-"po6 .- - -7eal   m1.  by   ~r   of ted.   i. 1  the corre-
I0..1. 1,00th dote    ece.t) - -bho   - A--I0 growth rote, of -bha                        c10,dio. Iel.-
popict.. for190- 19        197-70  .019970-dat.11t.r-7 tyfo                                                 .fpljW -t) -ieret. edo1t. (.01. to reed cdw-t o
C~~.  pi= t:(,Pl  h--d)- A--Io live blrh. per thoeccd of aid-                         cperetage of totl edo1t pop.3etios Aged 15 year  .0  o-.
ye.  pool.ic.;l60.970   cd 1977 4t.1.
C-de D..t         11,0004)- AcisoI deetho per 1100.04- of oidye,-                 ceoedif 10.m
poPoietioc;  w            -   1977 dot..                                                PS.o.s.ge  C-o  (per tho -.c     . ooltico)  P-WPeese  o-r  .oi..   t-r Core
bc-  hepoooCtio_ dot   A-Aerege 0.cr of doogltca   oeo  il  bcor                             .cctiog Ie.e thoO .*gt  Weeo. v eo "           bocc       . horc. 004  i1iteey
10 hcr -rcee  seprodoctlce period if oh. -op-rLe           reota-ohil.
speific fertility. r-tee; osoolly fiv--y..  ccrage. -,dlog to 1960,                     Patio R-oivoc(o im       ooOed e         ioiec) -AUl type. ci  -et-er  for -edio
1970,. .od 1975.                                                   h~~~~bCtdCotet  goce   olcpr t ae.5of popeltics;  -olod.. oslic00.ed
Feei  isoog -A ..eor. t        01,   .01 (thc.o.o"e  - A40001 coobe  of                      r_eter  to Cocetrice .06 to yea. W-. re.i.tee1iie   of rodho .010  -c  10
acceptor, of hirt-ootrl d-cloec 004c  cocpico of 0.1t0...1 f-olly                         cffct; dt.1  icr reoot yee,           cot he               i-.c0eec   -.ot  -ootrie.
P,           _~                                                                          ebollehed li-ielg.
Peolly Ploio- Ueer  (perooct: ofY014sen                   Pcrccotcgr of eaird             TV PeCei-er  t(plr th,coc.d eteoc             TY reciver. foe hro.do..t to g .erL
sIf chIld-bc.log sge  5~O1  be,-). ccitoh-ocotro1 dr-ice.                            pbhio Per th. sd ppro.Itioo; cooIode. aelicessd TV reeier   -0oetrie.
tocia ld 00-   ic s._  ege gr-,cd 10 y peswh. rgictrctlo   of TV set. *~1 ffect.
POOD1 AND WRifITICO                                                                         OeecsrCicltc   (e  hooo   o.eio)-ieethe dira.l pbi-coiet
1060o   odyrrto    e  Cocite (19,9-71-1100) - lodec of Per- -pit.                          de-ctod prirnily to r-crdi.g gO-re  -re.  It i.  -o.idred to he 'd.11y'"
-,I00  prooCtice of  .1 fo         _iidtlec. Productiooeccl,deooc-     sd                 if it copeoret 1.1et fr_  thes 0  r.hk.
fred sod i. 00 C.Ied0 year 001..  Co-ditie. core  pib.r'y god                           Ctocw   A-cc   Attoodooceiper Ccott or Ie            led000  or the 0.0c.r of ticket.
(e.g.  csae i0.1t04 of eogor)  hiCh aced04111, od 000101  octr icoto                      I01  d_cir  Oh,  eo   cido    hiocet   rv-s00..sd h
(e.g. Coffee  od te. a    .rc colded).  Aggregote prodootios of c-hcc  t000-              -its.,
1e hoed05  .11001  vergo  rodoer  ric   weght..
Per0.01.  ooy o  ceorle  p0,001of osireects) - C-epted fr..               1.1R POOlE
Pee    qoeler         facfolopie..101  10 00001ry o-crpit:.                            Toto1 lebo  Foroc 1t0to.od.) - tcec.-lcly  -tice  perce., cciodiog   .r
per do.W   Acc1lbtl  .opoliee .,riei    d-.etiC pr-datioc   Lapor-  lee                 forc. so 0-       lYdlteCcioiog h00eeei-c, ctedot., 00. Defieltloo.
-oprts  so..oe   0  to.ltspPlico eco lde   totf fed  sed,                               10 0i...0  C-utrie.rc ceot oCk-.le.
qoftitlc   0.0  10 fod  "rcelgcd lee I                 di dtrlhotioo.   eqirc-        Fec)7p7p7o     - Ff    1.1cr force oh perctege of total 100c  foc..
.t.l -er  e.tieted by CAOi  ..00  00 pbyicogi-l ocedo for noceel                                ,     -...t)ce51    - L.1r force 10 fecilg, forestry, Imiotg .0d
sol~ity  .d4 heoi th .... ideri'g o-ir-sotdl tosgertcoc, hody w14,hto,                  fi.ellg .. pereotce of 101.1 1.b1r forCe.
age.4 -d   0 di.trlibtloo   of pcpolctioo, sod o.1Ic.i.g  10 perocot for              [odotry  -cret) -1.cr force 10 aicig,  -ectrotioo, ecfectorieg cod
octI  t1 ho..ceho1  lecel                                                               clctricity, 001c  .04dc.  p-,etee of total labor force.
Per 00it0 oopply of octic(-acpr  y    Proteio   -t- OoOro    P-4                          PrtliCiptioo dots  pret)-tl    .101 .0d feI                 - Pertiipeticoor
cwpta SrI mePIp of fod  e  d.y.  etSpyof food i. df.11d0                               -atliIty rates  -r oI te   -.111   d,cd f-.1. lobo  forc  -  per-
oho.  OoHqoi-eet. for Oi1 cootrice  etoblichd by USDA proIde for                        -etagcs of total,  .ei  cod fe1..  pepoitios of .11 age. rospetivety;
06io.l   .110 .00   of 60 gr-.  of 101.1 proteio per day cd 20 gr-e  of                 1960, 1970  cod 1975 dt.0.  Th.c.  -e II1, partlipetiec  -tee reflectis
.01-.0.  sd poise p-tlet, of oc   11 bO hwld he  d.1.0.  protei..                       :g-cesotr   f too poP"ioloto, .06 ice  11.  treed.  A fto..ctiwt..
Thee  st"odrd. .r  10-c  11h0 thc  of 75 go.  of told  protelo sod                     are tr       i .1101croc
25 gr    of sol..]  prctei.       .-vrage for the acrid  propoee d by PA0              dco.0   Dpled-eecy 10110       R.11 ci.o  popoUiotio  0040  15 sod 65 cod o-e  to
10 the ThIr  Oord Poo  Zorce.                                                          tI     bor frrCe io se grecp of  -561. ycore
Pe   elcertt   o.]ll fro. .oiwo  sd p.Ise - Protcin  .opply of food
derived fro  cewi  cod isic   0                Ire   e  doy.                        i1om DITI          c
Child        lpge 1-) htlit, 0010 (cr 1100.04)- A,0.-1 d.011. Per ~th-o d                  P--co.. oPiecte loe  (hel 10   0  .0d 106) - le-iced by riebeet
is ae grop 10 pecs,to  b1114 i-c10thic eg  group; for cot devel-                    5=pretf rpchect  W0pret   ere    0perce-t, -06 pocret boO pewo.
opisog COctris 4t.1  derie   relieshe.of hoboOh1de..
HEAlT                                                                                     FOVrRTY  TAGIST GOOMPE
Li fe  cc-       Lp.t1. BIrh Ijo.  -Aeag   Oe  of Yeses of life                           Ecticted Ab.10.  Fb-crty toI-    ,.i(6  orcP to  - -b-0 cod  ..1-I
rlcto    .1  trtio  197, 197, .01977. dt.'                                          0100,pcry  aMili    ict bee   lee  he.ir etob c 00.01-
lI.Mt Xetglt  0R10 (per thno..ed( - A-00.1I desthe of lofcto 004cr ootritiooo11y .dcot.t  diet plo. 0.....ti.  00-food  -sqiret. i. .t
ewof agepe  thco.d0  1oc 11i1h.                                                        .ff.rd.biC.
040. oice0.c  (cre-t ofooooic     oe.  ,...4coa                                   .t1010-t     lold   blvei- rMt,   e   o-l(8   e   aia    or.o  0  r- 
Derofpeople (tota,  c-los  -d0 ro)with reaccohie.0001                                oe   eo rpcsy10. lecc  1., ec-hr  o   erg  pecp
_Ve01c   ,pply(ilo. t_0.td srface .1t. or ostre.ted lot                             pere-1 to-a  of the Coctlc. Orhbo leve  1. derice  irte  the  .rore  lev1
oect.Liotr  -olr  00  -O tht fec  protected  orcholco,  pyriogo,                        cith  dj.etaet f-c higher cost of lici  ol 10 booc           oe..
..d Ocoitef eco)0  peecotoge. of their r-eeetlo- popeltio-c  10                         E.tioted Poosl.tio  "eo    hcoo  oet   oe  leve  (r                     t)-ors06
rboIa re     polcfctioo   tope  lctdatece10                                              oe   - Per-et of peoaic    c1.  04s-rl  cs  oc   boot    .r
2.5 ecters fro.  h_.ooe  soy be Co-iderd  - Icing 011111 re -bnlle
aces  of th.t~ 1oz . t   -.re  -r.  r-aoble  -ces   -Iod ilepd
thlthe loe-if  or  -.elre of t10 ho-o.hold do sot lhce  Wo oped                                                                 E..OosciC  . 004 Soo  Dtl  Dsic 101
d,,prcptil.-tc p.r  of the d.i' io feohiog tho fsaily. .ct.- oecd.                                                           000.0A.ooi.l sod ProJetioc  Depart-t
Aogoot 1;97



-   2 7   -                                                                              AII     f I
ICORQIIC D6V7LOPMNT DATA SHEET
dm"I                                              Pro.i--d                           Iroth -ersAX                    1 965 eh..o
1965      1970       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980       1985      1965-77    197 7-79   1979-85    1985-90    of CD9P (1
A. Ittlontl Acco.et.
(Million US$ t 2975 prIc-.)
1. Cross domestic prodot           6,643.8   10,323.0  15,712.6  16,683.5   18.138.9   19,395.2  20,692.9  29,256.7            7.7         7.8        7.1        7.0       l0t.O
2. G In. froe term  of tned.        -44.3       42.8    -507.7    -978.1       1,108.9     1,238.4  -1,473.0  -1.962.8                                                      -3.2
3. Gr-s desenir Into.-             6,799.5   10,365.8  153204.9  15,707.4   17,030.0   18.156.8  19.219.9  27,293.9            7.2         7.5        7.0        7.0        96.8
6.  I. port                        1,659.9    2,989.8   3,699.1   4,460.8      4,896.8    5,082.8   5,440.4   7,507.0          8.6         6.7        6.7         6.8       23.5
5. Erport- - vole.               -10593.2  -2,274.9  -3,909.4  .4.506.9   -5.150.9   -5.077.4   5,512.1  -8,044.3              9.1         6.1        8.0        8.7        24.2
6.  oport  - adjoetd for          -1,548.9  -2.317.3  -3,300.7  -3.328.6    4,060.9    -3,839.0   4,039.1  -6.081.5            7.1         4.3        8.0         8.8       21.0
7.  .leso.rne gp - *dJouetd
for TO-                        210.0      671.9     399.4      932.1       647.9   -1,243.9  -1,401.3  -1,489.3                                                        7.5
6. Toed "on'-sptlom                5,302.3   8,067.0   11,709.5  12,370.3   13.062.6   14,213.4  15,090.4  20,721.2            7.3         7.2        6.5        6.1        74.5
9. Iovestont                       1,608.2   3,030.6   3,993.8   4,269.2       4,815.3     5,187.2   5,530.8   8.062.0         6.5        10.2        7.6         7.5       26.8
10. Nctionel _evnge                 1,576.4   2,500.8   3,477.7   3,312.5    3,908.1        3,901.5   4,011.1   6,125.8         6.4         6.5        7.9        9.6        22.1
11.   -ost.o entings  ijeted
for TOT                      1,497.2   2,358.7   3.493.5   3,337.1       3,967.4    3,943.4   4,129.5   6,572.7          6.9         0.7        P.9         9.3       22.2
12. GDF  t norrono 006              6,052.9   6,543.3   16,286.3  18,156.9   21.881.8    25,214.1  29,590.9  59,776.6          13.3                               13.6
S. sector etot
(Sore of CDP)
1. Agbrlltor1                       0.391      0.346      0.361      0.281       0.271       0.264     0.258      0.229
2. Indeetry                         0.208      0.227      0.269      0.286       0.299      0.304      0.309      0.335
3. ServIc-e                         0.401      0.427      0.430      0.431       0.430      0.432      0.432      0.437
C. Plr.es (1975 - 100)
1. Ilport pice Ide.                 66.43      46.04      91.65      99.35       96.55     111.65     125.06     171.40        5.6        12.7       7.2         5.1
2.  Import price Idn                67.76      47.15     105.75     114.12      123.05      147.66    169.Pi     226.72        7.5        6.7        6.1         5.0
3. Ter_ of tredo ind-n              97.22     191.88      96.67      78.30       78.50       75.61     73.64      73.60       -1.8         3.5        1.1        0.1
6. GDP dnll-or (096)                39.22      63.39     103.64     108.82      116.07      130.00    143.00     204.32        5.2         6.8       7.3         6.0
5. Anoudl Nrrge  6ch.ge ret.    20.8           20.98      20.40      20.40       20.39
D. Seected  WIdlootor.                            1965-77    1977-79    1979-85    1985-90
1. ICOt                                         3.56       3.32       3.80        3.97
2. Import el-tcity                              1.09       0.87       0.95        0.97
3. Areree S  tionel vlnge rete                 0.24       0.21       0.21        0.24
4.  bngimol eclonel  rleg  rce                  0.10.      1.12       0.23        0.28
5. D pntt/GlP                                   0.27       0.26       0.26        0.26
6.      Cneetment/GDP                           0.27       0.26       0.27        0.28
7. Iecooe geplGD7                               0.04       0.06       0.05        0.03
l.bor force ..                     V.6. p-r ennkor /b Lib
E. Ostgut. Lebor Forcee_  Predeotlvl t  e 1975             IU     i        ,j, 2illem                         I                      fj$       2 of ereK.
I. Agrlooltere                                            4,559       31.3                  13.4       75.7                        340       41.5
2. 7du ry                                                 6,66442     30.4                    1.4       7.9                       3,170      356.7
3. 5nro...                                                5,5M       38.3                   2.9       16.4                       1,930     235.4
Totllevrers                                      14.589      100.0                   17.7      100.0                        820      100.0
F. PFbl  Fl£nce (Z of SF1) (C-seir  OeaGvet)        1965       1970       1974        1975      1976       1977 k    1978
1. Current r- -_u                               13.5       13.8       14.5        13.6      13.4       14.0       14.6
2. ree  nee                                     12.3       12.5       13.5        12.0       12.1      12.9       13.6
3. Ctrret esditnc                               10.3       12.6       10.7        12.1       13.0      02.9       13.2
4. Bhegtory *evqeg                               2.9        1.2        3.7         1.5        0.6       1.2        1.6
5. Total publi  fev-etmmt                        6.5        7.7        3.9         4.9       5.3        3.4        5.3
0. Foel Inorce  (ferret 088 Silfonel               65.0      112.0      628.6       711.7     833.7      923.0   1.114.0
C, of ototl 1_ort- Il. WS)                        8.3        8.0       18.4        20.0      21.1       19.7       19.0
Porldaa,_ry.'
2b At rerrent r-kt prie...
fl retlu.e..



J° C-    °C?    -   C                            l°            -.  CC  ° '
CC~~~~ CCC                      II G O-'   lr O               _1           < _            b 
C4  V' C-   °CCC                         CCCC        CCCC-CC
o    CC          0C-CO          C -O          C  Ce e    C-  0 O0 00   e-   Ce
O C 1   CC.C           t C .  -CO          CC      CC         CCC -C   O~               CCCrI.CC    -   _C                  w-CCC               Cs'         _      C   CCr     noO sgz C gO  7CCDg   CG   C-  
Z ~~-"    I   e                        .            C-IGOOCT _C$  8                                    t                  o      <If1s> -  -  -   -  ---l
l   l       G~~C C,   0C-CCC    .   -eo                     < CCC>< eCCCII                     C.^CCCCSCC           CC    o-0         :: C       :                  CC      0C- OCCOCXe -- N
o2              c *~                    CC o        C     C - C          C.    8       _      -C-C_    o  wo-    C                         o_ . o^sc _C70C  1      2°wTX<-C 2   G__C
C                                   .    @ CC   eCC^-C>  ;O-C>,    .o e   ;>o-C  CCQ       <>-.   e   C- ~C-C- Z -  e   CC.C C C                CC                   I-C-  -   C '*CC> O c>=8<O 
I~~~~C    C.Cf
U 71 _ _ B ry                                                                                                                      I
C         = r u1                                                                                                                     I                                                     C                     c'o                    
C ~ ~~ C-C    X-CC  C   CC                                                                                                                                                                               -I-- CCCCC-- 0 O-CCCCCCCC'CCC



- 29 -                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                                   Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                                    Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrowers                           Purpose      Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed                     388.9      5.5        -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education       15.4        -     4.3
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom             37.0        -     1.6
870   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                      Highways        28.6        -     0.8
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education          -    19.5      3.5
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation         -      7.0     1.0
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power          75.0        -    11.5
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                              Industry       11.7        -      0.2
1021  1974   Metropolitan Water Works Authority   Water               55.0        -     5.5
1149  1975   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    95.0          -    70.8
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rural Dev.    21.0(TW)   -        9.7
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Livestock        5.0(TW)   -      3.1
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rubber          50.0        -    37.1
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            26.0         -     5.6
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education       31.0        -    22.2
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                              Industry       25.0        -    15.6
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Agriculture   28.0          -    22.8
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    55.0          -    41.2
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power          50.0        -    37.4
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                              Industry        4.8        -      3.9
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Population         -    :33.1/a  33.0
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Transport.   110.0          -    84.5
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority         Rural Elect.  25.0          -    24.4
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Housing          8.6        -     7.8
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                              Natural Gas    4.9         -      1.3
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            90.0         -    90.0
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    17.5          -    17.2
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Urban           16.0        -    14.2
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand                Railways        16.7        -    16.7
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power /b       80.0        -    80.0



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
Loan or                                                                 Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number   Year       Borrowers                       Purpose          Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Cr. 913  1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Education               -    35.0    35.0
Cr. 929  1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Agriculture             -    25.0    25.0
1752     1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Extension/b    40.0          -    40.0
Total                                                        1,411.1   125.1   766.9
of which has been repaid                                     202.7
Total now outstanding                                        1,208.4   125.1
Amount sold /c                        68.6
of which has been repaid           40.0                       28.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               1,179.8   125.1
Total undisbursed                                              669.4    97.5
/a Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/b Not yet effective.
/c Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1979)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company                Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                 0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                    -    0.38       0.38
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                          Materials                28.33    4.22      32.55
1977   Mutual Fund Company       Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                       -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00        -       2.00
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers            4.85    0.25       5.10
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials           36.00    4.00      40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                 -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                             73.98    9.49      83.47
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           48.69    2.56      51.25
Net held by the Corporation                         25.29    6.93      32.22
Total undisbursed                                   38.85    0.25      39.10



-32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of September 30, 1979)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years
behind schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procure-
ment. The delays in civil works result from delays in contracting archi-
tectural consultants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts.
These delays also reflect ineffective management which has begun to improve
after the recent formation of a commission of senior officials to coordinate
project implementation. The specialist services program under the project
is nearly completed. Out of 26 experts, 21 have completed their assignment
and the remainder have been recruited. Recommendations of experts for
improvement of teaching, research and extension activities are considered
worthwhile and have been implemented by the university staff. All the
fellowships have been awarded; 94 recipients have completed their training.
Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by about 35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973: Effective Date: August 8. 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30. 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components are virtually completed except the Teacher
Training Colleges (TTC) component which is about three years behind schedule.
Due to the Bank's concern about the delays in the TTC component, this project
was included in the OVP problem projects review paper of April 1979. Good
progress is generally being made in the pedagogical development of project
components except at Songkla University where the attraction of teaching at
Bangkok universities is resulting in high staff turnover.
L   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 33 -
ANNEX tl
Page 5 of 13
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976: Effective Date: February 9, 1977: Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation follows approximately the
appraisal estimate. There have been no significant delays in civil works
or procurement of furniture and equipment. Of 146 fellowships 137 have been
awarded, and 119 completed. Staff training programs are on schedule but need
to be improved, as does supervision by the Ministry of Education of its non-
formal education programs.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December
5. 1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original ClosinR Date:
December 31, 1977: Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is lagging a few months behind the revised time schedule
established in 1975 due to delays in procurement. The Bank loan is fully
committed and $35.4 million (96%) had been disbursed as of September 30, 1979.
Nearly all of the local telephone network expansion has been completed. After
a year's delay in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of the
long distance transmission equipment is now progressing satisfactorily. The
project is expected to be completed by the end of December 1979, about three
years behind original schedule.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$20.4 million (82%) had been disbursed as of September 30, 1979. Local tele-
phone network expansion is a few months behind schedule. After a year's delay
in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of long distance
transmission equipment is progressing satisfactorily. The project is now
expected to be fully disbursed by September 1981, having been completed by the
end of December 1980, 11 months behind schedule.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Proj ect; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to review of management decision on standardization of switch-
ing equipment and cables, action on procurement has been delayed by about 9-12
months. Bid documents for all project items are now expected to be issued by
the end of 1979. Waiting lists have been introduced in all telephone areas
and procedures for giving new connections revised. Progress on implementation
of other project components is satisfactory.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Projlect: $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is almost complete and 97% of the loan had been dis-
bursed as of September 30, 1979.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on schedule.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19. 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving
equipment. During the 1977/78 working season there was a marked improvement
in the pace of construction, especially on the tertiary canals. Work on
rehabilitation of main canal systems has been satisfactory and will be
completed by the end of 1979.  The estimated project cost is $30.3 million,
compared with $12.5 million at appraisal. The increased cost is due to price
inflation being higher than foreseen at appraisal, the decision to provide new
tertiary canals over an area of 34,700 ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed
at appraisal, and the adoption of higher standards for tertiary development
than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are compensated by increases



~ -35                  ANNEX II
Page 7 of 13
in projected commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated
at 24% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component
has been affected by management difficulty in integrating the work of several
disciplinary groups.
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date: Apiril 25,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Consultant contract was signed in March 1979. Design by contract
is delayed but "force account" work is expected to begin in January 1980.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31. 1975: ClosinR Date:
June 30, 1983
About one third of major civil works are behind schedule, but
project completion is still expected by mid-1984. Construction work on
the diversion dam and the first of three canal contracts is progressiLng
satisfactorily. Work on a second canal contract started in April 1979.
RID expects to award the third canal contract in time to commence construc-
tion during the next dry season. About 5,000 ha of on-farm development will
be completed this year. Thus, by the end of the 1979 construction season
the total area provided with on-farm development will amount to 10,500 ha, or
11% of the project area. All studies financed under the project are proceed-
ing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468  Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977: Effective Date: December 23. 1977;
Closing Date: June 30. 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 5,300 ha were completed in the 1978
construction season. Project preparation for about 40,000 ha in the Stage II
area of Maeklong was recently completed. A project monitoring system is being
set up and the Chao Phya Project area is now served by the National Agri-
cultural Extension Project.



-36 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on
two contracts for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have
delayed the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has
now been delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained.
The rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on
agricultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February
27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1981
The seed production and pasture development programs are progressing
reasonably well and the loaned-bull and artificial insemination programs,
hitherto hindered by the delay in importation of cattle, are improving.
Furthermore the number of permanent project staff has been increased from the
initially approved 121 to 223, and the New Zealand Government has agreed to
provide additional technical assistance for the remaining project period.
Disbursements are still considerably behind schedule but are expected to
increase with improvement in the preparation of procurement documents and the
importation of cattle. The Department of Livestock Development and the Bank
have completed a livestock sector review and recommendations are currently
being discussed with the Government.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976: Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing date: June
30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation is
improving. Replanting attained in 1978 was close to the revised target of
35,000 ha.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million loan
of May 17, 1977; Ef fective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Staffing is almost complete in 18 of the possible 25 provinces.
A few of the provinces incorporated under the project in 1979 lack about
70% of Extension Agents, but all efforts are being made to appoint staff
to these provinces which are generally less attractively located. Although
staff training schedules are adhered to, the quality of training, particu-
larly that for subject matter specialists, can be further improved.  The
effectiveness of the new provincial extension services is strongly related
to the quality of leadership and technical support.  Strong efforts to
rectify shortcomings are now being made in the weaker provinces. Excellent
extension results have already been achieved, in particular through the
extensive use of small punps for dry-season cropping by small farmer groups,
in rubber quality improvement and in improvements in home gardens. The civil
works program is about two years behind schedule, mainly because of high rates
inflation, low unit cost of ceilings for civil works set by the Budget Bureau,
and the relatively large size of the provincial civil works packages which
consisted of many small buildings scattered throughout the provinces. It is
expected that contracts for all remaining civil works under the project will
be awarded in Thai fiscal year 1980. The ceiling for unit prices haLs
increased by about 35%. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials is
on schedule. Disbursements are lagging through the delays in the civil works
program. Consultants continue to provide DAE with excellent assistaLnce.
Loan No. 977  Srinagarind  (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Ef fective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project are nearly completed. Construction
of the dam embarikment was completed on May 14, 1978 and all other works are
being carried out satisfactorily. The installation of the turbine generating
units is expected to be completed on schedule. Project costs are likely to be
about 28% higher than appraisal estimates, due mainly to additional grouting
work required beneath the main embankment. The progress on resettlement has
been satisfactory, and almost all of the 814 families affected have now been
moved into their new homes.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satis-
factorily. Implementation is about one month behind schedule. The initial
delay was caused by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer-than-
expected rock conditions at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels.
Orders for all major equipment (financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been
placed. Construction for the resettlement component is progressing according
to schedule. Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9. 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
The project is in the early stages of implementation. There was
an initial delay of about four months in the preparation of bid documents
but procurement is now under way and should present no further problems.
Field construction crews have been working on pole setting and conductor
stringing since the middle of 1978, utilizing materials available in stock.
Loan S-10       Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
All the project preparation activities and preliminary engineering
have been completed. In July 1979, the Borrower, the National Gas Organiza-
tion of Thailand, was taken over by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand who
will be the Borrower for the proposed loan of $107 million for the Second Gas
Pipeline project expected to be approved in mid-December 1979.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision
of construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. Because of the
initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to be completed
by the end of 1979. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in May
1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be poor. The Government
approved MWWA's proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with increased
operating costs and the new rates were announced in early November 1979.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Prolect; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15. 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implement-
ation. Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal esti-
mates. In order to mlnimize resistance to beneficiary charges, cost:
recovery in improved slums will be introduced as physical works are
completed - starting in early 1980.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979: Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Implementation of the project is generally ahead of schedule.
Signal equipment has been installed, some two years earlier than expected, as
a result of the consulting and procurement work done under contracts for which
the Bank provided retroactive financing.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation continues to be good. On-site infrastructure
has been progressing. Bunding, drainage, and three of the four deep wells
have been completed. Substantial progress is being achieved in road construc-
tion, sewerage, and water distribution, and work is expected to be completed
by end of 1979. Land sales have been very encouraging with nearly all of
available plots either firmly committed or being negotiated, and are well
ahead of appraisal estimates. These sales have been achieved at an average
sales price of B 300,000 per rai, as compared to projected sales price of
B 250,000 per rai in the appraisal. In order to accommodate substantial
demand for the Export Processing Zone, TEAT has enlarged this area to 30 ha.
The estate's full development is still expected by mid-1980.



- 40 -
ANNEX Ir
Page 12 of 13
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Prolect; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The full amount of the $12 Million Loan has been committed, of which
98% has been disbursed. The commitment was more rapid than orignally esti-
mated. Disbursements have also been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when
the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1980
The loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of
the sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. The IFCT's capital struc-
ture and liquidity position have improved, however, with successful share
capital increases. Satisfactory progress has been made on the institution-
building aspects of the project.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
RTG has, in accordance with the Credit Agreement: (a) established
and staffed the Project Coordinating Committee, which has met frequently;
(b) established and staffed the Project Administration and Financing Unit
(PAFU); (c) appointed a project director, deputy director and two assistant
project directors and a health planner/economist; and (d) initiated most
of the key project activities at the national level and in the 20 Accelerated
Family Planning and Health Provinces. Due to initial delays in staffing the
project administration and financing unit, a high turnover of staff in the
Construction and Design Divisionr, and delays in securing Budget Bureau
approval for the supplementary budget for FY1978, key project activities
were held up initially and major elements of the project are about six months
behind schedule. The Ministry of Public Health is, however, taking appro-
priate action to strengthen project management, improve coordination and
remove impediments to implementation.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan was declared effective on August 22, 1979. Increases in
freight and passenger tariffs were announced recently in line with the agree-
ment with the Bank.



-41 -                    ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: Jume 30,
1985
This development credit became effective on October 12, 1979. Good
progress has already been made: (i) the Central Procurement Unit has been
established; (ii) sites for all first phase institutions have been acquired,
and expected to be completed by mid-1981; (iii) Phase I sketch plans and
lists for most furniture and equipment have been prepared; (iv) consultants
for the Center for Educational Technology have been selected; and (v) poten-
tial technical assistance contractors have been identified.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979: Effective Date: October 12., 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This development credit became effective on October 12, 1979.
Preparations for the first year of project implementation have been satis-
factory, particularly in view of the fact that the implementing agencies have
no prior experience with Bank-supported projects.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9. 1979; Original Effective Date: November 7, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The required power tariff increases have been announced and the loan
is sheduled to become effective on December 10, 1979.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan is yet to become effective. However, the Government has
given this project high priority and intends to accelerate project implementa-
tion.



- 42 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
SECOND NATURAL GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project - 18 months
(b)  Agency whlch prepared the project - Natural gas organization of
Thailand/Petroleum Authority
of Thailand and Consultants
(c) First Presentation to the Bank - August 1978
First mission to consider the project - October 30, 1978
(d) Date of departure of the Appraisal Mission - February 15, 1979
(e) Completion of Negotiations - September 26, 1979
(f) Planned date of Effectiveness - February 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Provision of technical advisory services to enable the borrower,
PTT, to assume additional responsibilities and implement refinery expansion
decisions.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan are:
(i) Conditions for effectiveness of the Export Credits Commit-
ments totalling $250 million have been satisfied or other
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been agreed for
the financing of the goods and services (para. 54);
(ii) PTT's gas supply contract with Union Oil is being maintained
and that all necessary action (including legislative action)
in this respect has been taken by the government (para. 60);
and
(iii) PTT's gas sales contract with EGAT has been duly executed and
delivered on behalf of PTT and EGAT (para. 61).



43 -                     ANNEX III
Page 2
(b)  No withdrawals will be made until a satisfactory contract has been
executed for consultants' services for project management and
construction supervision (para. 58).
(c)  The borrower has agreed to:
(i)  undertake the gas utilization, refinery expansion an,l energy
audit studies under the terms of reference agreed with the
Bank (para. 48);
(ii)  maintain a separate Office of Natural Gas, separate accounts
for this Office and retain earnings and cash flow sufficient
to cover its needs including further gas developments
expenditures (paras. 51 and 61);
(iii)  make the appointment of the Director of the Office of Natural
Gas in consultation with the Bank (para. 51);
(iv)  initiate a satisfactory training program for PTT's staff by
March 1, 1980 and submit a staffing plan to the Bank by
June 30, 1980 (para. 51);
(v)  utilize technical advisory  services for undertaking new
responsibilities and for instituting a management information
system relating to the petroleum sector (para. 52);
(vi)  have commercial loans of $75 million become effective by
May 31, 1980 and the balance by May 31, 1981 (para. 54);
(vii)  maintain a Revolving Credit of $40 million throughout the
duration of the project (para. 54);
(viii)  institute a progress control system to ensure timely
implementation of the project (para. 56);
(ix)  follow the corporate and financial statement in respect of
the financial performance and the development program
(para. 59); and
(x)  not change the terms of its gas sales agreement with EGAT
without prior Bank approval (para. 61).
(d)  The guarantor has agreed to:
(i) ensure that PTT and other appropriate sector related agencies
collaborate in the formulation and implementation of the
Government's policies for the energy sector (para. 52);



- 44 -                       ANNEX III
Page 3
(ii) forward to the Bank, for its prior review and comment,
detailed proposals for the financial and operational plans
for undertaking any institutional reorganization of the
energy sector affecting the natural gas operations
(para. 52);
(iii)  make an equity contribution of $77 million to cover the
cash of land and right of way and capital taxes payable
on the project (para. 54);
(iv)  provide its views and proposals relating to PTT's corporate
plans and development programs pursuant to C(ix) above
(para. 59).



IBRD  13476 R
C -  .  N A                                                                     102                                    JUNE 1979
-- i 9S  ~T H A I L A NJ D
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION CONCESSIONS
-    t1 vET                  Kanchanaburi                            AND PROPOSED PIPELINE ROUTES
.                   A,t t > M  -14   °4°
v  it }   \; -- ).\   PakhonPottom° ~Ba _ngkok        _. _    D,spuled Area
- THAILAND                         PakhonPatt.m0             Bangkok *BongPakong            *       Gas Wells
0~~~~~~~
..  Rarchaburi0             N     SE   5XS                     A       Oil Wells
)                gJ ee~'  .   SamutSongkhram                        n                       0      Dry holes
Proposed pipelines
Phetchaburi                                                   Irternational boundaries
Area ofhecabr
op 
<         ,\¢               J                   2 S~~~~~~~~~~~~TERMIN,;L 
IA
INDONES A                                                             Satt
4 B-- - >1 t | t { .~~ DEMOCRATIlC
oZ2° r,--=iJ(- f3< \ /   \ BKAMPUCHEA r
$-       ChumphonO                                                    
0~~~~
/0~~~~~~~~
9'   Z      Ranong    Q;                                                      /%                     
r'¢S\  //                                   q
0~~~~~~~~~~~
Surat  hani                                        0
z         RPhanong o                                                                              u   f '
\  ,                 ~~~~~Nakhon Si0   4\                                         /    /     .
5°  PhukC  X   Thammarat   \                              + Th                C l                      8°
Es  ~~~~~~~~Sratbhai                                                                              SRCUEft
Phahttngnog                                             C$//
Phuk
Trang'                                   0
on> f   t jSSgkhlo              O                       ILANO&MALA YSIA
t   atun f'-                  YalaO           
-I     Satunf           g \             Narothiwa          /
0  20  40 60  80 100 120 140 160                                                                                            h,o .to h- .Ofs .refpeecSb,the
,__._,_,_,_._._,_.___._'_-_'__________,__                i.                            )                                  the  cotefoeneoce at'ek  rosterse of
KILOMETERS                                                                                                     the W do,tOteo usedh Vodth
0     20    40    60    80    100                                                                                                      or tdrt  -h a's J ti stop
d  no scsoy, on thte jsr of the
MILES                                           -                                                           Wdd book ead st, aftotiteVw, os
5M    A   I    A   Y                                    SY      or0.Y aY eOd-tretoot
98e          1000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f-hbd,



