                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                       ReportNo: 35248-ID




                         PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                            ONA

                      PROPOSEDMULTI-DONORFUNDGRANT

                              FORTHE BENEFITOFTHE

                                REPUBLICINDONESIA

                        INTHEAMOUNT OF US$4.5 MILLION

                                             TO

                                      MUSLIMAID

                                          FORAN

 EMERGENCYREHABILITATIONOF THE DRAINAGEAND FLOODPROTECTION
                         SYSTEMOF BANDA ACEH PROJECT




                                      April 18, 2006



InfrastructureDepartment
EastAsia andthe PacificRegion


    This document has a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipientsonly inthe
    performanceoftheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosed
    without WorldBankauthorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (ExchangeRateEffectiveJanuary31,2006)
                           Currency Unit = IndonesianRupiah(IDR)
                              IDR 1,000 = US$0.1066
                                  US$ 1   = IDR9,375



                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    - December31




                         ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ADB    Asian DevelopmentBank                     MOF      Ministry of Finance
BRR    Bureaufor Rehabilitationand               MOU      Memorandumof Understanding
       Reconstructionfor Aceh and Nias           NCB      NationalCompetitiveBidding
CQ     Selection based on Consultants'           NGO      Non-GovernmentOrganization
       Qualifications                            N S      National Shopping
DA     DesignatedAccount                         O&M      Operations and Maintenance
EA     EnvironmentalAssessment                   PCA      ProcurementCapacity Assessment
EIA    EnvironmentImpactAssessment               PIU       Project ImplementationUnit
EMP    EnvironmentalManagement Plan              PSC       Project SteeringCommittee
FM     FinancialManagement                       PU        PublicWorksDepartment
FMA    FinancialManagement Agent                 QBS       Quality-BasedSelection
FMR    FinancialManagement Report                QCBS      Quality and Cost Based Selection
GAM    Free Aceh Movement                        RFP       Request For Proposal
GO1    Government of Indonesia                   SOE       Statement of Expenditure
IAP     ImmediateAction Program                  sss       Single-SourceSelection
ICB     InternationalCompetitiveBidding          TA        Technical Assistance
IC      Individual Consultants                   TNI       IndonesianNationalArmy
JICA   JapanInternationalCooperation             TOR       Terms of Reference
       Agency                                    UNICEF    UnitedNationsInternational
LCS     Least Cost Selection                               Children'sEmergency Fund
MA      Muslim Aid                               U W       UrgentReconstruction and
MDTFANS Multi-Donor Trust Fundfor Aceh                     RehabilitationPlan
        andNorth Sumatra




                                 Vice President:     Mr.Jeffrey Gutman, Acting, EAPVP
                               Country Director:     Mr.Andrew D.Steer, EACIF
                                Sector Directors:    Mr.ChristainDelvoie,EASTN
                                                     Mr.Keshav Varma, EASUR
                              Task Team Leader:      Mr.Jerry A. Lebo, EASTR

                                                     INDONESIA
      EMERGENCY REHABILITATION OFTHE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD
                PROTECTION SYSTEM OFBANDAACEH PROJECT


                                                     CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                   Page
A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE...............................................................                                    1
  1. Country and sector issues...........................................................................................            1
 2 .  Rationale for MTDFANS Involvement ......................................................................                       3
  3.  Higher level objectivesto which the project contributes.............................................                           4
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................................................................................                 4
  1.  Project development objective and key indicators ......................................................                        4
  2.  Project components....................................................................................................         4
  3.  Lessons learnedand reflected inthe project design.....................................................                         5
 4. Alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection .......................................................                         6
C IMPLEMENTATION .....................................................................................................
 .                                                                                                                                   7
  1. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..........................................................                        7
  2   Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results..........................................................                         8
  3.. Sustainability .............................................................................................................    9
  4.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects .........................................................                     9
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY ............................................................................................                    10
  1.  Economic and financial analyses..............................................................................                  10
  2.  Technical .................................................................................................................    10
  3.  Social.......................................................................................................................  12
  4.  Environment ............................................................................................................       13
  5.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness.............................................................................                   14


Annex 1: Background and Technical Issues.........................................................................                    15
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description.................................................................................               20

Annex 3: Project ResultsSummary...................................................................................... 22
Annex 4: Project Costs ........................................................................................................      24
Annex 5: Implementation Arrangements..............................................................................                   26

Annex 6: Procurement Arrangements..................................................................................            27
Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursement Arrangements......................................                                  32
Annex 8: Safeguards............................................................................................................ 41
Annex 9: Policy Frameworkfor LandAcquisition andResettlements..................................                                 45
Annex 10: Anti CorruptionAction Plan...............................................................................             49
Annex 11: Project Preparationand Supervision...................................................................                 52
Annex 12: Documents in the ProjectFile.............................................................................             53


MAP: IBRD34428

                                                    INDONESIA

                 EMERGENCYREHABILITATIONOFTHE DRAINAGEAND FLOOD
                          PROTECTIONSYSTEMOF BANDAACEHPROJECT

                                        EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION
                                                        EASIN

Date: April 18,2006                                        Team Leader: Jerry A. Lebo
Country Director: Andrew Steer                             Sectors: UrbanDrainage and FloodProtection
Sector Director/SectorManager: Christian                   Themes: Infrastructure Services, Risk Management
Delvoie/Keshav Varma                                       Environmental Screening Category: B
Project ID: PO99185                                        Safeguard Screening Category: Limited Impact


[ 3 Loan     [ ] Credit   [ X ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee[ ] Other:
Total ProiectCosts: US$4.5 million
MDTFANS Grant Amount: US$4.5 million
Government Contribution:N/A
                                               FinancingPlan(US%m)
          Source                          Local             I          Foreign          I            Total

        MDTFANS                           3.25                           1.25                         4.5
           Total                          3.25                           1.25                         4.5
Grant Recipient: Muslim Aid
ResponsibleAgency: MuslimAid, Indonesia
Address: Jalan BintaraPineung No. 27, Banda Aceh, Indonesia
Contact Person: H. Fadlullah Wilmot, Director, MuslimAid Indonesia;
Tel: (0651) 741-1927; Fax: (0651) 740-0178 email: fadlullah@gmail.com
Estimated disbursements (FY/US%m)
FY                               FY06                FY07                FY08
Annual                                  0.45                  2.5             1.55
Cumulative                              0.45                 2.95              4.5
Projectimplementation period: Start: March31,2006             End: Dec 31,2007
Expected closing date: June 30,2008
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
                                                                                             [ ]Yes   [ X ]No
Does the project requireany exceptions from Bank policies?                       [ ]Yes    [XINO
Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                                      [ ]Yes    [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                     [ jyes    [ X ] N o
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?       [XIYes [INo
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?    [X ]Yes      [ ] No:
Project development objective: The objective o fthe Emergency Rehabilitation o f the Drainage System of Banda
Aceh project is to quickly re-establish functionality of the storm water and marine flood protection systems
damagedor destroyed by the tsunami and earthquake.
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component]
      (a) Urgent Tidal Flood Protection Program. Supply and install one-way flow valves at points inthe system
          where currently sea water incursion occurs at hightides;
      (b) Storm WaterFlood Protection Program. Reconstruction of approximately five pumpingstations, about
          110one-way flow valves, and repairinglrenewingo f drainage channel embankments, cleaning of 5 kmof
          secondary channels, and other minor civil works; and
      (c) ImplementationSupport and Capacity BuildingProgram. Consulting services to support the executing
          agency during implementationand for training.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? The project will      have any large scale or irreversible adverse
environmental impacts. The project triggers the World Bank Environmental SafeguardsPolicies on Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement(OPBP 4.12). The project i s classified as Environmental
Assessment Category "B".
Significant, non-standard conditions, ifany:

The Grant Effectiveness conditions are:
        (a)     the Recipient shall have established: (i)a financial management system acceptable to the
                Association, including a contract with a financial manager, internal audit procedures, and a
                financial management manual; and (ii)the Steering Committee acceptableto the Association;

        (b)     BRR shall have approved and adoptedthe anti-corruption plan in Annex 10; and

        (c)     Each of the Recipient and BRR shall provide a legal opinion satisfactory to the Association
                addressing the matters set out in Section 8.02 of the General Conditions.

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues

The Tsunamiand EarthquakeDisaster

1.         Aceh and Nias bore the brunt of a tsunami andearthquake that struck Indonesia in
December 2004 and March2005, respectively. The scale of the disaster was unprecedented,
with an estimated 170,000 people killedor missing, over 500,000 personsdisplaced, and
hundredsof communities washed away. One year after the disaster, normal social andeconomic
life is slowly returning, although full reconstruction and restoration of livelihoods will take
years. The availability of housing remainsthe main priority, and various efforts are being made
to remove people from emergency tents and houses to temporary shelters, while the construction
of permanenthousing continues. Overall peace efforts inAceh are progressing well, and will be
essentialto long-term development inAceh.

2.       The tsunami causedextensiveand severe damage to the sea defense and flood protection
along the west coast andinthe greater BandaAceh area. Many sea defense and river training
embankmentswere totally destroyedand extensive areas of land were washed away. Land
subsidenceof upto 1.5 meters has beenreported along the west coast areas and southern region
of Aceh Province. Ingreater BandaAceh, while detailed measurementsare still underway, it is
estimated that the land area subsided0.4-0.6 meters.

3.       Most of BandaAceh City's drainage control systems (flap valves, tidal gates and
pumping stations) were destroyedor damaged by the tsunami andprimary and secondary
drainage channels were damagedand filled with debris. Even before the tsunami, major floods
were a regular occurrence inthe city. These were usually a combination of hightidal flooding in
low lying areas and/or storm water flooding as a result of heavy rainfall and from over-topping
of river embankments. Major storm water flooding occurs on average every seven years in
Banda Aceh, flooding over 50% of the city area. Banda Aceh is the economic center of the
province and has an official population of around 300,000 (unofficial estimates are around 25%
higher).

Pre-TsunamiandEarthquakeDrainage

4.      Prior to the tsunami, Banda Aceh had incrementally establisheda drainage andtidal
protection system basedon the City of Banda Aceh Technical Drainage Plan (1989). The Plan
proposeda series of pumping stations to discharge the principal drain outfalls into the natural
rivers (including the floodway), as well as tide gates on several of the smaller rivers. The Plan
had beenprogressively implementedas funding became available. At the time of the tsunami,
the system included eight pumping stations and over 90 one-way flow valves (`flap valves'), as
well as a substantialnetwork of internal drainage channels. With the system inplace, the urban
area of Banda Aceh was reasonably protected from storm water and tidal flooding-although
periodic flooding was still experienceddue to poor maintenance andinadequate capacity of the
system.




                                                  1

5.      As inmost cities inIndonesia,the drainage systeminBandaAceh acts as a wastewater
disposal system. The city has no separate sewerage system, and all wastewater eventually flows
into the storm water drainage system. Before the tsunami, the city of BandaAceh had one
sludge treatment facility with a capacity of 30 cubic meters per day. This facility was fully
destroyedby the tsunami, along with the city land fill.The Japanese Government is assisting
with rebuilding the facility, and in light of the large number of septic tanks planned for Banda
Aceh, UNICEF is supporting the BandaAceh city council to build a new sludge treatment
facility with a daily capacity of 60 cubic meters. Untilthese facilities are operating, flooding
will represent a serious potential healthhazard inBandaAceh.

Government Strategy

6.      The 1989 Drainage Planremainsthe guiding document for the city's vision to provide a
safe and sustainable environment for the urbanpopulation. The Plan calls for providinga system
of internal drainage to keep the vulnerable areas free from flooding for predeterminedlevels of
rainfall events (`design storms'), as well as providing an efficient and effective means of
preventing tidal incursion, again for predetermined`design' tidal levels. The city's Public
Works Department (PU) is responsible for implementing the Plan and is responsible for
approving all designs for improvements and extensionsto the city drainage system. Drainage i s
under the city's Water Resourcesllnit of the Departmentof RoadInfrastructure and Water
Resources. Main drainage, larger river embankments, andthe city's main flood canal fall under
the responsibility of the ProvincialDepartment of Water Resources.

7.      Funding for capital works related to drainage andflood control, and for operation and
training, comes from annual government budget allocations. Prior to the tsunami, IDR 200
million ($20,000) had been allocated for drainage under the city's 2005 budget, which was
mainly used for cleaning and minor repair. The entire budget for the city Department of Road
Infrastructure and Water Resources inFY 2005 was IDR 600 million ($60,000). During
preparation of the FY 2006 budget, the Department did not expect any significant increase for
the drainage, due to limitedavailability inthe FY 2006 allocations.

Agency for Rehabilitationand Reconstruction(BRR)

8.      The Agency for Rehabilitation andReconstruction was set upto instill more coherence,
leadershipandmomentum inthe reconstruction process. The BRRcomprises a high-level
Advisory Board to guide the reconstruction strategy, an Executing Agency (Bapel), a senior
managementteam, plus an Oversight Board to monitor activities, handle public complaints, and
conduct audits. All three report directly to the Presidentof Indonesia.

9.      The BRR's infrastructure program unit is now established and i s tasked with the role of
coordinating donor support, reviewing proposals, and prioritizing projects. BRR's estimate for
the costs for reconstruction of water and sanitation systems throughout Aceh is US$345 million,
with US$175 million already allocated to projects inthe sector, divided betweenNGOs (US$95
million) and donors (US$SO million). However, this does not account for the level of investment
neededto restore basic storm water drainage (local level andmain drainage systems). There are
no current commitments to reconstruct the drainage system inBanda Aceh, although the



                                                   2

Japanese and DutchGovernmentsare inthe process of identifyingpossible projects, but these
would take several years to fully develop and implement.

Sector Issues

10.     The BRRand World Bank havebeenworking together preparing regular "stocktaking"
reports on the progressandpace of the reconstruction effort. The most recent of these reports,
publishedinOctober 2005, presentedthe mainissues inthe water and sanitation sectors
(including drainage). The issues relevant to the proposedproject are:

    0   Lack of Basic Mapping and Land Information. Ground levels are reported to have
        changed inmany areas. The implications for the water table changes and provisionof
        sewerage and local level drainage are formidable. Currently, accurate base maps for
        reconstruction works are not available.

    0   Capacity of Local Governments and Water Utilities, The capacity of local
        governments following years of conflict, coupled with the disaster, is not sufficient to
        fully address the demands of reconstruction efforts. Reconstruction activities thus need
        to address capacity building, to ensure local governments can manage facilities inthe
        future.


    0   Need for Technical Assistance to Support Project Design, Review, and Preparation
        Works. Project preparation work i s beyond the scope of the BRR's mandate, andthe
        sheer volume of proposalssubmitted for review is already large. Local governments,
        utilities, and the provincialtechnical agencies lack the resourcesto handle the work load
        of detailed technical analyses needed.

11.     Giventhe emergency nature of the project, the above issues have been addressedthrough
the provision oftechnical assistance, which will support the implementing agency by carrying
out the neededland surveys inthe project area, training local government staff inthe operation
and maintenance of the system, and providing support for preparation of engineering designs,
bidding documents, and construction supervision.

2. Rationale for MDTFANS Involvement

12.      Since the tsunami, the international responsehas moved beyond the emergency phase to
reconstruction. However, significant work has yet to start on repairing, reconstructing or
replacing the major road infrastructure, logistics, sea defense, river flood protection works and
internal drainage systemsnecessary for rapidreconstruction and economic recovery of the
affected areas. InBandaAceh, regular tidal flooding, and the continuing possibility of major
storm water flooding during the current and subsequentrainy seasons, would likely further slow
reconstruction efforts. Neither the provincialnor city governments currently has sufficient
financial and human resourcesto undertakethis project. The BRR is coordinating projects, but
does not have the neededimplementation capacity for emergency needs. The Government does
not currently have a mechanismto transfer reconstruction funds to NGOs who might have the




                                                  3

capacity to deliver on its behalf. Therefore, the project is designedto support GOIs
reconstruction program by providing funding for the services of MuslimAid.

3. Higher levelobjectives to which the projectcontributes

13.     BRRrequestedthe JapanInternational CooperationAgency (JICA) to develop a study
titled Urgent Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Plan(URRP) for BandaAceh city. The initial
report was completed inAugust 2005. The report includedproposals for rehabilitation of all
flood control and drainage infrastructure to pre-tsunami conditions. Inaddition, the report
includesplans for significantly upgrading the infrastructure. The detailed designs for these are
yet to be developed and BRR is actively seeking support to implementthese plans. The project,
as proposed by MuslimAid (MA), is fully consistent with the JICA proposal for overall
rehabilitation of the drainage and flood control infrastructure.

14.     BRRhasproposedan "Immediate Action Program(IAP)" to respondto pressing
infrastructure issues. This program seeks to address the key infrastructure bottlenecks that
already exist or will emerge inthe next few months. BRRplans to implementthis Program
immediately through selected partner agencies. These agencieshave beenselectedbecause they
are successfully carrying out similar activities and are capable of implementing parts of the
Program. The Program will include four separate projects, each designedand implementedby
separate agencies with comparative advantage and are on-the-ground inAceh. BRRhas
proposedto partner with MA to respondto the drainage and flooding problems of Banda Aceh.

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Projectdevelopment objectiveand key indicators

15.     The objective of the Emergency Rehabilitation of the Drainage Systemand Flood
Protection of Banda Aceh project is to quickly re-establish functionality ofthe storm water and
marine flood protection systems damagedor destroyedby the tsunami and earthquake.

16.     The Key PerformanceIndicators for this development objective are:

     (a) Protection against storm water flooding and tidal flooding, provided progressively (over
          an 18 month period);

     (b) Tidal incursion inthe project area prevented (withinthree months);

     (c)  Emergency works compatible within existing long-term plans; and

     (d) Staff responsiblefor maintenanceof Banda Aceh drainage systemtrained and capable
         of planning andexecuting routine maintenanceand small repairs.

2. Projectcomponents

17.     The Project hasthree components:



                                                  4

       Component1: Urgent Tidal Flood Protection Program (US$0.12million). Inorder to
       address the most urgent problem oftidal flooding, the project will includean immediate
       component to immediately supply and install one-way flow valves and undertakeother
       minor civil works at the point inthe system where currently sea water incursion occurs at
       hightides.

       Component2: Storm Water Flood Protection Program (US$4.08million). The work
       will involve reconstruction of approximately five pumping stations and associatedcivil
       andhydraulic structures; installation of about 110one-way flow valves to prevent tidal
       and storm water incursion into the internal drainage system; repairing, renewing and
       enhancingapproximately 500 mriver and drainage channel embankments; clearing
       approximately 5 km of secondary channels of debris; and other minor civil works
       associated with these drainage improvements.

       Component3: Implementation Supportand CapacityBuilding Program (US$0.3
       million). Inorder to promote the sustainableoperation of the system, the project will
       includean appropriate level of institutional strengtheningandtraining for the
       implementing agency (the City Public Works Department - PU). Inaddition, the project
       will include capacity building and consulting servicesfor the executing agency inorder
       to support project implementation.

Total project costs are estimatedat US$4.5 millionto finance civil works, consulting services,
and goods andequipment. A detailed breakdownof project costs is provided inAnnex 4.

18.    ProjectArea. The project map (IBRD34428) showsthe extent to which the locations
subject to chronic flooding inthe project area are within the urban district of Banda Aceh
(approximately 35 square km of the 62 square kmcity area). No new facilities outside this area
are envisagedunder the project. It is expectedthat three new pumping stations will be addedto
the pre-tsunami systemto increaseits capacity andtwo pre-existing pumping stationswill be
consolidated into a new single station. The placementandneedfor newpumping stations will be
confirmed during detailed engineering and land surveys during implementation.

3. Lessonslearnedand reflectedinthe projectdesign

19.    The following are the lessons learnedbased on a review of the existing drainage system
as operatedpre-tsunami inBanda Aceh:

       The needfor an adaptive approach: The preliminary layout of the drainage system was
       basedon the 1989City Plan. The implementation of this planwas developedby the PU
       over time, using the `observational principle' (Le., when funding was available the PU
       decidedonthe basis of observed need which intervention would be effective). Given the
       limitations of funding, operation and maintenance, the systemwas probably well-suited
       to the need. The preliminary layout currently proposedwill be reviewed by the
       consultant selectedby MuslimAid to supportimplementation and capacity building.




                                                 5

       Appropriate modifications will be included consistent with the selected design
       parameters.

       The need to minimize maintenance costs: Inplace o f steel or wooden sluice gates, for
       which a degree o f maintenance and operation i s required, it i s proposed to use vulcanized
       flow check valves ("duck valves") that have no moving parts and work at low water
       pressures providing complete cut-off to prevent back-flooding. The design is very low
       maintenance and will allow for local drainage (at 5 cdsec flow rates) without having to
       manually open the check valve. Past experience has shown that very little budget, except
       for drain clearing and minor works, is allocated to drainage issues under provincial and
       city budgets so systems must be low cost to maintainand service. Also, tampering with
       sluice gates and flap valves was common under the previous system.

4. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

20.    Ingeneral, there is no reasonable alternative to the project as proposed. Alternatives to
the valve design have been considered, but rejected on grounds o f maintenance costs,
vulnerability to tampering, and demonstrated failure inthe pre-tsunami system o f gates and
valves. Several alternatives for project implementationwere considered, but were also rejected:

       Delay implementation until the JICA Plan isfunded andprepared This plan i s more
       comprehensive inits scope than the proposed project, and aims to bringthe whole o f the
       drainage system to a high standard. The estimated costs are as muchas US$40-50
       million. Both the JICA plan and the proposed current project would cover similar spatial
       areas. However, the JICA plan cannot be prepared and implementedquickly to address
       the current needs ofthe affected population. The advantage o fthe proposed project is in
       the potential for fast-track implementation of design, including its immediate works to
       install tidal valves within three months. The proposedproject will closely mirror the first
       phase o f the JICA recommendations.

       Use the P U as ExecutingAgency rather than Muslim Aid (an NGO): Boththe P U and
       MuslimAid would require substantial capacity buildinginorder to implement the
       project. MA has already mobilized inAceh, with significant experience working with the
       local communities inthe project area inBanda Aceh. Further, MA has an established
       working relationship and support from the City o f Banda Aceh, and provincial technical
       agencies -primarily throughits housing programs. MA initially started the flood control
       project to improve the physical conditions inthe communities where it works.
       Subsequently, the city requested MA to increase the scope o f this program to its current
       scale and coverage, MA also has some experience o f project implementationinMedan
       (Metropolitan Medan Urban Development Project for ADB). Moreover, MA i s able to
       mobilize is resources readily to set up the PIU, and can use its financial resources to avail
       the retroactivefinancing facility available with Bank procedures. PUhas many different
       foci, and it would be difficult to engage the best staff required for the project period. P U
       resources to implementthe project are limited, and a lack o f operating budget could
       greatly slow project implementation.




                                                 6

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

21.     Oversight. BRR will establisha four memberProject SteeringCommittee (PSC) to
oversee and provide high-level managementand supervision for the project. BRRwill act as
Chairman for the committee. MuslimAid andthe provincial andcity's Public Works
Departments (PUS)will eachassignone memberto the PSC to represent their organizations.
The PSC will be responsiblefor overall project oversight andhigh-level decision-making and
coordination among project agencies.

22.     Project management. The project will be managedand implementedby MuslimAid.
MuslimAid will establisha Project Implementation Unit(PIU) with adequate staffing to carry
out the project, MuslimAid will recruit an international-caliber engineering firm to support the
PIU. The consultant will be expected, inter alia, to undertake the detailed design, prepare the bid
documents, prepare the environmental assessment and EMP, superviseandmonitor the
contractors, and provide institutional strengtheningand training servicesto the relevant local
government agencies. To ensure smooth implementation of the project, MuslimAid has agreed
to hire a professional consulting firm (Financial ManagementAgent, FMA) to establish an
adequate financial management system including internal control and integratedfinancial
management information and accounting systemsthat are capable of providing, with reasonable
assurance, that funds are usedfor the intendedpurposes and of generatingthe reporting
information requiredto meet project requirements. The implementation arrangements are shown
schematically below:

                                                 Project Implementation



                                                                Committee




                                  Financial Management




                                                               +
                                   Proiect Implementation Contractors and Suppliers
                                                              -

              MDTF = Multi Donor Trust Fund
              ERR = Agency for Reconstruction of Aceh and Nias
              PU = Public Works Department
              MA = MuslimAid




                                                               7

23.      The program will be implemented over two years. Construction works will be completed
withinthe first year, andoperations, maintenance, andtraining will continue through the second
year.

24.      Inaddition to the roles mentionedabove, BRRand PUSwill have the following specific
roles:

     0   Provincial and city PUS:Approval o f all design proposals for the works.

     0   BRR: Coordinationof all projects inthis sector and area. BRRwill also be responsible to
         work with local governments and MA to ensure the project is implementedinaccordance
         with World Bank policies on land acquisitionand resettlement (World Bank OP 4.12).

25.      MuslimAid andthe City of Banda Aceh have signeda Memorandum o fUnderstanding
(MOU) dated May 10,2005 covering the scope o f the project. The M O U also covers exchange
o f information, reporting, and indemnification o f MA with respect to loss, damage, or injury and
second party liabilities. The M O U also sets standards for project delivery and procedures for
resolving disputes.

2. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

26.      Muslim Aid will be responsible to develop and implement a monitoring and evaluation
systemfor the project:

      (a) Overall progress toward meeting the project's development objective will be tracked
          usingthe project's key development indicators. Inaddition, physical implementation
          progress, financial indicators, and system performance will be measured by the PIU and
          construction supervisionteam;

      (b) Project social and environmental aspects will be tracked usingsocial and environmental
          assessments. The EMP will include a key monitoring indicator which will be followed
          duringproject implementationby the supervisionteam and reportedon regularly as part
          o f project reporting systems; and

      (c) Effectiveness o f the interventions inpreventing flooding inthe project area will be
          monitored.

27.      The PSC will be responsible for monitoring overall project implementation. Each month
the PIU will prepare a summary report and send it to BRR, P U and the Bank to briefly describe
exceptional events and conditions identified during the monitoring process, as well as indications
of the actions to be taken inresponse to these events. The Bank, as partner agency underthe
MDTFANSlegal framework, will be responsible for project supervision on behalf ofthe
MDTFANS.




                                                  8

3. Sustainability

28.       The project is not designedto deal inacomprehensive way withthe management,
institutional, operational, maintenance and other issues related to long-term sustainability of the
drainage system. The project is designedto quickly bring relief from flooding to the urban
population. The City of Banda Aceh at the end of the project will accept ownership ofthe new
flow valves and pumping stations. The project has sufficient funds to operate and maintain the
infrastructure for a two year period. The new equipment will incorporate a low-maintenance
design, thus lowering the costs of O&M from the original pre-tsunami system.

4. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects
  RISK                             RATING MITIGATION                                          RATING
                                                                                              AFTER
                                                                                            MITIGATION
  Misuse of and failure to account   H   Outsourcingof accountingand reportingfunctions.        M
  for project funds                      FMA will provide pre-audit verification of all
                                         paymentsin excessof $10,000. Public disclosureof
                                         audit report and anti-corruption initiatives as
                                         outlined in the Anti-corruption Action Plan.
  Ineffective audit functions        H    Inclusion of internal audit function into FMA's       M
                                         TOR and employment of professional good
                                         practices.
  Political involvement in funds     S   Off-budget implementationby Muslim Aid.                M

   Lack of involvement and            S  A ProjectSteeringCommittee will be establishedto       M
  support of key government               ensure the appropriate engagement of BRRand the
  agencies                               relevant PU staff.

  Inadequate capacity of the         S   TA Consultants will providethe requiredcapacity.       M
  executing agency                       Muslim Aid will establish aPIU staffedby
                                         experiencedtechnicalstaff, administrationstaff,
                                         procurementand financial management
                                         staff/accountants. Employmentof a specialist to
                                         support the PIU in managingthe procurement
                                         processesand financial management.

   Limited availability of goods    M    Key equipment to be procured internationally           N
   and equipment                         throughShopping. Commonly availableequipment
                                         (e.g. small motor unitsand pumps)will be procured
                                         through the Main Works contractor, ratherthan
                                         directly by the executingagency.

  Need to deliver the project on a  M    Model bidding documentshave been developedand          M
  fast track basis                       agreed with the Bank. Specific procurement
                                         provisionselaboratedto deliver the works, goods
                                         and services quickly in responseto the emergency
                                         natureofthe project. Use of retroactivefinancing
                                         and advance procurement procedures.

  Weak procurement                   H   All packages that will be funded on aretroactive       M
  environment and collusive              basiswill be subject to prior review. To ensure
  ,practices in past projects            transparency in the procurement process, enhanced
                                         procurement procedures are included in the Anti-
                                         CorruptionAction Plan.




                                                    9

   Low capacity of the PUS                S      The projectincludesa significantinstitutional         M
                                                 strengtheningandtrainingcomponentto promote
                                                 sustainablemanagement,operationand
                                                 maintenanceby the PU. The PUSare not directly
                                                  involvedin projectexecution, which will be handled
                                                 bv Muslim Aid.

   OVERALL RISK LEVEL                     S                                                            M
 Risk Rating H(High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M(Modest Risk), N(Negligibleor Low Risk)
            -

 D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

 1. Economic and financial analyses

 29.      The overall benefit   from the project will be improved healthand security from the effects
 of tidal and storm water flooding inthe city o f Banda Aceh. This will enable a safer habitable
 environment for the vast housing reconstructionprogram required inBanda Aceh, and provide
 relief from flooding for the people returningto their land. It will also provide a less risky
 physical environment for the economic recovery, facilitating investment and long term
 sustainability o f the affected areas. Most o f the benefits from the project are not easily
 quantifiable indirect monetary terms, but are expected to be substantial, such as loweredhealth
 costs and incidence o f disease. The project will also allow for recovery o f otherwise
 uninhabitable land and reduced cost for construction and can be expected to greatly improve
 livelihoods and quality-of-life.

 30.      While much ofthe population is still residing intemporary barracks or tent facilities,
 housing reconstructionhas started inthe project area. It is estimated that the project will
 immediately improve conditions for around 100,000 persons (25,000 families). As more
 families rebuild, another 100,000 persons could eventually benefit from the project. Many
 families are keento rebuildifthey can be assured that flooding will be unlikely-and                  thus, by
 reducing flooding, the project i s expected to increase the rate o f housing construction inthe
project area.

 31.      The Bank worked withMuslimAid to determine the relative cost effectiveness ofthe
proposed approach. Inthis regard, it i s estimated that direct construction saving as the result o f
reduced need for land fill andprotection foundation works would save as much as 10-20% o f the
 construction costs o f a house inthe project area. Inaddition, the elevation of many houses that
'have already been built would needto increase inthe future without the project. Based on an
estimate o f the current cost o f housing construction o f US$4,800 per house, the total savings in
construction cost alone inthe project area were estimated betweenUS$lO-50 million for the
25,000-50,000 housesthat need to be rebuilt or improved inthe project area.

2. Technical

32.       No outstanding technical issues were identified during appraisal. The PIUwill be
supported through the provision of consulting services with adequate engineering and
construction supervision skills. The effectiveness and maintenance requirements for the chosen
valve designare low. The valves are designed to be self-cleaning and flow levels are sufficient


                                                           10

to scour debris from the valve. The capacity of pumpsusedto move storm water from the land
area into the drainage channelshivers will be increasedthrough higher capacity facilities,
following the findings of the JICA study. The project includestraining intheir use and
maintenance.

Procurement

33.     Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out inaccordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurementunder IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultantsby World Bank Borrowers" datedMay
2004, andthe provisions stipulated inthe Grant Agreement. Giventhe emergency nature of the
project special procurement provisions have beenagreed on an exceptional basis; these are
outlined inAnnex 6.

34.     An assessment of the procurement capacity of the agency was conductedinAceh during
appraisal. The assessment concluded that the project procurement risk is "high" due to the
following reasons: (a) procurement capacity of the executing agency and its ability to develop
specifications and Bill of Quantities for the packagesis weak and no procurement staff are
currently available inAceh; (b) limitedavailability of goods and equipmentingeneral inpost-
tsunami Aceh, andthe limitedavailability of specific goods, e.g. tidal flow valves, inthe
country; (c) needto deliver the project on a fast-track basis; and (d) general weakness of the
procurement environment and collusive practicesunder past World Bank projects. Mitigation
measures to address these findings of the ProcurementCapacity Assessment (PCA) have been
agreed and are outlined inAnnex 6 and inthe Anti-Corruption Action Plan (Annex 10).

Fiduciary

35.     A formal assessment ofthe financial managementcapacity, usingFinancial Management
Assessment Guidelinesissued by the Financial Management Sector Board on October 15,2003,
was performed on the project implementing agency, MuslimAid/ Indonesia Aceh Branch. The
findings indicate the needto strengthenits financial managementcapacity inthe Aceh Branch to
satisfy the Bank's minimumrequirementsfor financial management of this specific operation.
Prior to project effectiveness, specific time-bound actions have beenrecommendedand agreed
by MuslimAid. Details of specific areas of weakness and associatedrisks, as well as mitigating
actions are articulated inAnnex 7. Inaddition, the Financial Management Agent (FMA) will
provide pre-audit verification of all payments inexcess of $10,000.

Audits

36.     Project accounts will be audited annually inaccordancewith international auditing
standards by an independentauditor acceptableto the Bank. The auditor's report will be made
available to the Bank within six months of the close of the fiscal year. The auditswill include a
separate opinion on the SOE, the DesignatedAccount andproject assets. The first audit will
include a review and commentary on the adequacy of internal controls and a post-review of any
retroactive expenditure. A qualified, independentfirm, acceptable to the Bank, will be appointed




                                                 11

as external auditor within six months after grant agreement signing. The costs of annual audits
will be financed from the Grant.

Anti-Corruption

37.     Beside the actions outlined above, MuslimAid and BRRwill implement the Anti-
corruption Action Plan as presented inAnnex 10.

FundsFlow

38.     About US$3.3 millionwill be disbursedusing direct payment procedures for civil works
for drainage system rehabilitation. For the remaining balance, funds will be disbursedon a
transactional basis. MuslimAid will establisha DesignatedAccount at a commercial bank in
BandaAceh, which is capable of providing efficient payment and clearing facilities. The Bank
would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$lOO,OOO. The Special Account will
be maintainedby the project implementation unit. These amounts would be usedonly for the
purposesof the project to cover its project expenditures. Disbursementsunderthe Grant will be
made using SOEs for: (a) goods; (b) services of consulting firms costing less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent per contract; (c) of individualconsultantscosting less than US$50,000 equivalent per
contract; (d) training andworkshops; and (e) incremental operating costs. Supporting documents
will be maintainedby the coordinating team, andmade available to the Bank'svisiting missions
and auditors as required. The project implementation unit will also prepare and provide to the
Bank quarterly reports on implementation progress along with Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs)informats agreedwith the Bank. The FMRswill be usedfor monitoring purposes. Use
of direct payment method for disbursement will be maximized.

RetroactiveFinancing

39.     Retroactive financing of up to US$450,000 would be available for eligible expenditures
incurred since November 15,2005, which is the date of completion of the Bank's appraisal
mission, provided they comply with the agreed procurement guidelines. Inaddition,
documentation requirementsfor expendituresclaimed under retroactive financing are the same
as those for disbursementagainst paymentsmade after the Grant Agreement is signed. This
retroactive financing provision would allow for the Grant to cover initial setup costs for the PIU,
hiring of consultants, and for the implementation of the requiredsteps for grant agreement
effectiveness, includingdevelopment of the financial management system.

3. Social

40.     The majority ofthe social impacts of the project will bepositive. Any negativeaspects
arising will be identifiedthrough ongoing monitoring by the supervision team (PIU and
consultant) andBank and handled as appropriate. There are expectedto be only minor negative
social impacts related to the needto acquire small plots (about 100 square meters each) of private
land to install newpumping stations. This land will be purchasedby the city government
following World Bank and GO1policies basedon the Policy Framework inAnnex 9. It is
expectedthat upto three of these sites will be for new pumping stations and possibly one site



                                                12

will be for consolidation oftwo existing pumping stations into a single unit. The location and
need for these sites will be confirmed by the engineeringconsultant during detailed land and
engineering surveys.
41.     A Policy Framework for LandAcquisition andResettlement (PF) has beenagreedfor the
project (see Annex 9). The City Government of BandaAceh has substantialexperience inland
acquisition basedon GO1regulations of Keppres55/1993 andPerpresNo. 36/2005, but limited
experience incarrying out land acquisition inaccordancewith the World Bank Resettlement
Policy. A Tim Pengadaan/Pembebasan Tanah (Land Acquisition Team) and a Tim Penilai
Tanah (Land Assessment Team) were establishedby the City in2005 inresponseto Presidential
Regulation No. 36/2005 on the LandAcquisition for the Development for the Public Purposes.
This team will be responsiblefor land acquisition under the project under the oversight of BRR
and the PSC. The City Government of BandaAceh has agreedto make available the budget
requiredfor land acquisition underthe project available inFY 2006. Ifthe landis not made
available by the time of signature of the contract for civil works, the new pumping stations will
be dropped fromthe project.

42.     A landacquisitionhesettlement expert will behiredto support the PIU, particularly inthe
early stages of the project. This consultant will provide training for the City Public Works
Agency, as well as the Land Acquisitionand LandAssessment Teams as needed. This expert
will also monitor the project to ensure that the Policy Framework is implemented.The expert
will also prepare a report for the PIU, the Executing Agency and the PSC on implementation of
the framework.

4. Environment

43.     The project has beenclassified as category "B" under World Bank OP 4.01,
"Environmental Assessment" because its environmental impacts are expectedto be minor and
overwhelmingly positive. The large scale impact of the project would bethe alleviation of
chronic flooding inthe urban area of Banda Aceh. Suchflood waters are contaminated by septic
discharge due to destruction of the septic sludge treatment facility and breakdown of the city's
septic tank maintenance system of pump trucks. There is now direct discharge from septic tanks
into the drainage ways that are prone to flooding. Control of the contaminated water flooding
residential areas, temporary tent camps of the homeless and other sensitive receptors would
permanently reduce this public healthrisk, as well as increasewater quality. Proper drainage can
also reduce disease vectors, an important factor as malaria and dengue are endemic to Banda
Aceh.

44.     The potential negative environmental impacts ofthe project are mainly related to
construction and will be handled by the development of a project-specific Environmental
ManagementPlan (EMP), which will be carried out by the contractor under oversight of the PIU.
The potential negative construction impacts include disruption of traffic flow, dust, noise,
disposal of spoils from ditch cleaning, and disposal of hazardousmaterials such as crankcase oil
from equipmentmaintenance.

45.     The project does not trigger IndonesianEIA requirements. A focused environmental
assessment and EMP, including one round of public consultation, will therefore be preparedby



                                                 13

the PIUwith support of an internationalconsultant, prior to the mobilization o fthe main civil
works contractor. The EA/EMP and Policy Framework will be publicly disclosed inaccordance
with World Bank policies.


Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                             Yes                     No
  EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                 [XI                      [I
  Natural Habitats(OP/BP 4.04)                                                             [I                      [I
  Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                                 11                      [I
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                                    [I                      11
  Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                                    [XI                      [I
  IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                                       [I                      [I
  Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                                      [I                      [I
  Safety of Dams(OP/BP 4.37)                                                               [I                      [I
  Projects in DisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                               [I                      [I
  Projectson International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                       [I                      [I

5. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

46.      No policy exceptions are required. The project is beingexecuted under the World Bank's
OP 8.50, Emergency Recovery Assistance.

47.      The first phase o fthe project is ready for execution (Urgent Tidal ProtectionProgram)
and draft Terms o f Reference for implementation support to the Executing Agency have been
agreed. Procurement for both o f these items has begununder advance procurement and
retroactive financing.

Grantconditions and covenants

48.      Standard World Bank conditions and covenants apply. The Grant effectiveness
conditions are:
         (a)       the Recipient shall have established: (i)a financial management system
         acceptable to the Association, including a contract with a financial manager, internal
         audit procedures, and a financial management manual; and (ii)                        the Steering Committee
         acceptable to the Association;

         (b)       BRR shall have approved and adopted the Anti-Corruption Action Plan inAnnex
          10; and

         (c)       Each o f the Recipient and BRR shall provide a legal opinion satisfactory to the
         Association addressing the matters set out inSection 8.02 o f the General Conditions.




* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                             14

                                    Annex 1: Backgroundand TechnicalIssues


                                                      INDONESIA
  EMERGENCY REHABILITATIONOF THE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD PROTECTION
                                      SYSTEM OF BANDAACEH PROJECT

Background

The Government carried out a multi-sectoral damage assessment' inJanuary 2005 with support
from the donor community andjointly prepareda Technical Report and associatedNotes on
Reconstruction,* to helpdonors and bilateral and multi-lateral financing institutions inassessing
the impacts ofthe disaster andinidentifyingpossible areas of assistance. Accordingto the
Damage Assessment, it is estimatedthat some 4,000 villages and urban communities have been
affected, approximately 127,000 houses completed destroyed and approximately 153,000
partially damaged. The preliminary estimate of damages and losses inAceh andNorth Sumatra
i s approximately IDR 41.4 trillion (US$ 4.45 billion).

The damage to the sea defense andflood protection infrastructure was extensive and severe.
Many sea defense embankments andriver training embankments were totally destroyed, and
extensive areas of land were washed away. Inaddition, the landhas subsidedby up to a reported
1.5 m inthe west coast areas inthe south of Aceh Province and 0.4 m inBanda Aceh itself.

Even before the tsunami, major floods were a regular occurrence inBandaAceh due to high
tides flooding low lying areas and to storm water flooding as a result of heavy rainfall and from
overtopping of river embankments along the rivers running through the urban area. Major storm
water flooding occurs on average every seven years, but currently the big problem i s tidal
incursion via the damaged drainage systemand onto the urban landareas. This happens at each
lunar cycle (Le. monthly), the severity dependingon the moon's phase. Major storm water
floods occurred in 1953,1971,1978 (twice), 1986,2000 and 2002 i.e. on average every seven
years. The 2000 flood lasted 15 days and flooded over 60% of Banda Aceh. Apart from these
major floods there are less severe annual flood events.

Most of the city's flood gates and pumping stations have been destroyedor damaged and are no
longer effective. The primary and secondary drainage channels have beendamagedand filled
with debris by the tsunami, and many have since beenblocked inan attempt to reduce flooding.

Since the tsunami struck inDecember2004, the international response has moved beyond the
Emergency Phase to the Rehabilitation Phase. However, work has yet to start on repairing,
reconstructing or replacing the sea defense, river flood protection works and internal drainage
systems necessary for the economic recovery of the affected areas.



' BAPPENASand the International DonorCommunity(eds,) (2005): Indonesia: Preliminary Damage and LossAssessment - TheDecember 26,
2004 Natural Disaster,Jakarta, 19 January.
  BAPPENAS and the International DonorCommunity(eds.) (2005): Indonesia: Notes on Reconstruction - TheDecember 26, 2004 Natural
Disaster,Jakarta, 19 January.




                                                               15

Project Context

The Aceh andNias Post Tsunami and EarthquakeReconstructionprogram consists of a number
of initiatives, each designedto address the needs of discrete infrastructure areas. These include:

        Initiative 1: Housinghhelter infrastructure initiative includingwater, sanitation, drainage,
         solid waste management, and local transport

        Initiative 2: Sea defense, flood protection, refuge and early warnings systems initiative

        Initiative 3: Primary and Secondary Provincial Level infrastructure includingintra
         settlementhillage roads, connector roads andports, power, water resources, etc.

        Initiative 4: Economic infrastructure

         Initiative 5: A separate Nias program

        This project focuses on Initiative 2, sea defense, flood protection, refuge andearly
warnings systems, and specifically on the needfor emergency rehabilitation of the drainage
system of Banda Aceh.

Technical Approach

Basis of Design: The preliminary layout of the drainage system is based on the 1989 City Plan.
The implementation of this planwas developedby the City Public Works Department (PU) over
time, usingthe `observational principle' (Le. whenfunding was available the PUdecidedon the
basis of observedneed which intervention would be most effective). Despite the limitations of
funding, operation and maintenance, the system was probably reasonably well suitedto the need.
The preliminary layout currently proposedwill be reviewed by the TA Consultants appointed as
part of the capacity building component, and appropriate modifications included consistentwith
the selected design parameters. The project design is basedonthe 20-year rainfallevent.

Type of one-wayflow valve:

Inplaceofthe usualsteel or wooden sluice gates, for which adegree ofmaintenanceis required,
it is proposedto use vulcanized flow check valves that have no movingparts andwork at low
water pressures providingcomplete cut-off to preventback-flooding. The design is known
generically as variable orifice and is reasonably sophisticatedwith the elastomer a composite
something akinto a tire. The most common materials are Buna-N andNeoprene. Neoprene is
more resistantto UV and would be more appropriate for Aceh. A lifespan of 30-50 years is
claimed which although obviously not confirmed seems a reasonableprojection. The design
seems to ensure a reasonableflow velocity at low heads. They are designedto be self-cleaning
so this flow is designedto be sufficient to scour debris from the valve. Ifvery large debris does
block the valve it canbe manually opened to be cleared although this is apparently a rare
occurrence. The valves can be designedfor a given installation by varying the pre-stressingin
order to achieve a certain degree of back-pressureresistance and leak-tightness at the cost of



                                                  16

higher pressure drop. A design which is not pre-stressed should be able to resist at least 6m head
andbe able to open under very small forward head. The O&M manual indicates zero
maintenance is requiredfor the lifetime of the valve. The valve's only weak points other than
cost seem to be susceptibility to ozone and solvents neitherof which would appear to be a
consideration and no current means of indicating when the valve is open. Operational
temperature range far exceeds Aceh ambient conditions. The valve also appears to be resilient to
oceanwaves up to 15mfully submergedbut of unknown size inthe breaking zone.

Existing System, Relevant Studies and Reports

The pre-tsunami drainage systemwas based on the City of BandaAceh Technical Drainage Plan
(1989). This sub-divided the city into drainage areas, each with a systemof tertiary and
secondary drainage channelsflowing to primary drains. These inturn dischargedinto the City's
natural surface water channels -principally the Rivers Aceh, Doy, Neng, Daroy, Tipit Creek and
the City Floodway. The Planproposedpumping stationsto discharge the principaldrain outfalls
into the natural rivers (including the floodway), as well as tidal gates on several of the smaller
rivers. Since the Plan was prepared, the PU has progressively implementeddrainage channel
improvements and constructedpumping stations and tidal valves as funding became available, in
accordance with the perceived priority. At the time of the tsunami, the systemincludedeight
pumping stations and over 90 one-way flow valves (`flap valves'), as well as internal drainage
channels. The urban areas were protected from storm water andtidal flooding by a combination
of flood prevention embankmentson the rivers, flap valves and tidal gates.

It is also important to understandthat the City's drainage systemalso acts as its wastewater
disposal system. The City has no separate sewerage system, and all wastewater flows eventually
(sometimes through septic tanks) to the drains. Flooding, bothtidal and storm water, therefore
poses a significant healthhazardto the affected urbanpopulation.

Most of the city's flap valves, tidal gates andpumping stations have been destroyedor damaged
and are no longer effective. The primary and secondary drainage channels have beendamaged
and filled with debris by the tsunami, andmany have since beenblocked inan attempt to reduce
flooding.

During the eleven months since the disaster there have beenmany emergency physical
interventions andmany studies, strategy papers and other initiatives. A number of the most
relevant are:

    (a)     The GO1has formulated a Blueprintfor Rehabilitation and Reconstruction in Aceh
            and Mas, which guides the coordination and implementation of all recovery programs
            being introduced inAceh. As one of the blueprint's components, the Comprehensive
            Human SettlementsRehabilitation and Reconstruction Strategy provides an overall
            approach for programming the repair and reconstruction of housing and settlements
            for the affected population. The strategy aims to support settlement of refugees,
            public facilitates andhousing basedon a spatial plan, to rehabilitate water treatment
            plants and distribution systems, and to adopt a community approachas much as
            possible. The estimateddemand for rehabilitation andreconstruction of water supply
            and sanitation inthe Blueprint was US$345 million.


                                                 17

   (b)     The Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) produced a Study on the
           Urgent Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Support Program for Aceh Province and
           Affected Areas inNorth Sumatra-Urgent Rehabilitation andReconstructionPlanfor
           Banda Aceh City (August 2005). This is reviewed inAnnex 1.1. Local Government
           (Dinas) plans to submita requestto MDTF to design and implementextensive
           rehabilitatiodrenewal of secondary and tertiary stormwater drainage systems based
           on the JICA study.

   (c)     At the requestofthe City of BandaAceh, MuslimAid prepareda proposal to provide
           emergency damage rehabilitation for flood flow valves and drainage pumping stations
           inBandaAceh to replacethose destroyedby the Tsunami andto renewdrainage
           channels and other works to prevent Banda Aceh from being flooded from the sea or
           from the river or from extremerainfall events.

Review of JICA Proposals

The JICA report calculatedthe runoff from eachof the drainage areas and sub-areas (eight in
total) and concluded that the capacity of the primary drainage conduits andpumping stations are
inadequate. The report identifies significant areas of the city which are `habitually inundated'.
Note that inthis case the inundation is causedby rainwater falling on or draining into the
drainage areas (including some overtopping of river embankments), not by tidal flooding caused
by sea water breaching or overtopping the defenses.

Table 1shows details ofthe run-off from the drainage areas andthe capacity of drains and
pumping stations as calculated by the JICA team.

                   Table 1: Capacitiesof ExistingDrainageFacilitiesand Runoff




        Source: JICA study

The data shown inboldfont indicate the drain andor pump capacitieswhich are less than the
calculated runoff. Only one of the pre-tsunami pump capacities was greater than the runoff.

The report states that urgent rehabilitation work is requiredon the urban drainage system, river
dykes andflood walls to counter flooding from hightides and storm water inthe latter part of


                                                 18

2005. Although the report goes on to make some preliminary proposals, it is emphasized that
more detailed studies are required before final proposalsfor implementation of long-term
drainage facilities can be made.

The proposalscover anurban area of 61 km2 with anestimated2009 population of 254,000
(2009 i s selected because this i s the target date for completion of the proposedworks). The
design storm usedfor calculation of storm water quantities is 165mmwith a returnperiodof five
years.

The proposalsbasically follow the existing drainage system, modifiedwhere necessary in
accordance with the City Development Plan. The proposals are grouped into five priority classes
according to criteria developedby the study team. Table 2 shows the details.

                                     Table 2: JICA proposedworks

          Priority         # of Pump            Lengthof         Length of new   # of new flood
                            stations            drainage           drainage        retention
                         rehabilitated          channel          channel (m)         basins
                                              rehabilitated
                                                   (m)
              1                 4                  766   ..                            1
             2                                    4620                                 1
             3                  4                  1896
             4                                    3691
                                                  ~    ~~    ~


             5                                     622               8108
           Total                8                 11595              8108              2

The proposedcapacities of the two flood retention basins are 450,000m3 and 75,000m3. The
proposalsalso includethe replacementor rehabilitation of 30 ofthe original 98 sluice gates.

Identification and Scope of Program

Basedon field surveys, the numberof sites inthe various drainage sub-systeminBanda Aceh
requiring new floodgateshalves and pumping stations are as follows:

                                             Item                                   Total N o
       1 Flow check valves & installation                                              90
       2 Pumping Stations (8 are rehabilitation of existing pump stations)              10
       3 Pumps                                                                          12

Inplaceofthe usualsteel or wooden sluice gates, it isproposedto use vulcanized flow check
valves that have no moving parts and work at low water pressures providing complete cut-off to
prevent back-flooding. They are said to last 30 to 50 years. It i s estimated that 90 of these valves
will be needed.




                                                    19

                              Annex 2: DetailedProjectDescription

                                            INDONESIA
 EMERGENCY REHABILITATIONOF THEDRAINAGE AND FLOOD PROTECTION
                            SYSTEM OF BANDAACEH PROJECT

ProjectDevelopmentObjective

The objective of the Emergency Rehabilitation ofthe Drainage Systemof BandaAcehproject is
to quickly re-establish functionality of the storm water and marine flood protection systems
damagedor destroyed by the tsunami and earthquake. This will enable a safe habitable
environment for the vast housing reconstruction program requiredinBandaAceh, and provide
immediate relief from flooding for the people returning to their land. Itwill also provide a less
risky physical environment for the economic recovery, facilitating investmentand long term
sustainability of the affected areas.

Key Indicators

The key performance indicators for this developmentobjective are:

     (a) Protection of population against design intensity (20 year) storm water flooding and
         tidal flooding, provided progressively over an 18 monthperiod;

    (b) Tidal incursion inthe project area preventedwithin three months;

     (c) Emergency works compatible within existing long-term plans; and

    (d) Staff responsible for maintenanceof Banda Aceh drainage systemtrained andcapable
          of routine maintenanceand small repair.

ProjectComponents

The Project has three components:

        Component1: Urgent Tidal Flood ProtectionProgram (US$0.12million). Inorder to
        address the most urgent problem of tidal flooding, the project will include an immediate
        componentto supply and install eleven (11) one-way flow valves and undertake other
        minor civil works at the point inthe systemwhere currently sea water incursion occurs at
        hightides.

        Component2: Storm Water Flood Protection Program (US$4.08million). The work
        will involve reconstruction of approximately five pumping stations and associatedcivil
        and hydraulic structures; installation of about 110one-way flow valves to prevent tidal
        and storm water incursion into the internal drainage system; repairing, renewing and
        enhancingup to 500 mriver and drainage channel embankments; clearing of upto 5 km




                                                  20

        of secondary channels of debris; and other minor civil works associated with these
        drainage improvements.

        Component3: ImplementationSupport and Capacity Building Program (US$0.3
        million). Inorder to promote the sustainableoperation of the system, the project will
        include an appropriatelevel of institutional strengtheningandtraining for the
        implementing agency (the City Public Works Department - PU). Inaddition, the project
        will includecapacity building and consulting services for the executing agency inorder
        to support project implementation.

Total project costs are estimated at US$4.5 million to finance civil works, consulting services,
and goods. A detailed breakdown of project costs is provided inAnnex 5.

Although the project area covers the mainparts ofthe drainage system of Banda Aceh, the
project is not designedto deal ina comprehensiveway with all the management, institutional,
operational, maintenance and other issues currently afflictingthe system. It is designed to
quickly bring reliefto the urbanpopulation which is currently suffering bothmarine and storm
water flooding, andthe public healthrisk associatedwith it.

While the main works will not be complete intime for this rainy season, the project aims to
deliver fast track (i.e. within two months) relief from the chronic tidal flooding which is causing
misery to the affected population. The mainworks are scheduledto be delivered progressively
within 10to 15 months.

The project includescapacity buildingto enablethe ExecutingAgency to deliver the project, and
for the PUto operate and maintain the emergency interventions provided.

The project is scheduledto take two years to complete. The principalwork to review the physical
conditions, existing plans, andprepare the detailed designs and contract documents, and
implementthe works will take place inthe first 18 months. There will be aperiodof
management, operation and maintenancetraining (12 months duration) which overlaps with the
construction phase and extends a further six months, giving a total project period o f 24 months.

Project Area

The extent ofthe areas subject to chronic flooding inthe urbanarea of Banda Aceh is shown in
the project map. Although this area covers the mainparts ofthe City (the MA and JICA plans
both consider this area) any drainage facilities outside this area will not be consideredwithin this
project as their condition is not consideredto constitute an emergency situation.




                                                 21

                                            INDONESIA
 EMERGENCY REHABILITATION OF THEDRAINAGE AND FLOOD PROTECTION
                            SYSTEMOFBANDA ACEH PROJECT

                                Annex 3: ProjectsResults Summary

 Project Intervention   VerifiableIndicators     Means of Verification         Assumptions
          Logic            of Achievement

Sustainable post-tsunan reconstructionand dew pment inAceh
ProjectPurpose          100%protectionof       Absence ofvisual          Systemdesigns are
Re-establish            populationagainst      evidence; reports of      appropriate.
sustainable urban       design intensitystorm  floodingevents associated
environmentin Banda     water flooding and     with design intensity     Operationand
Aceh to providea less   tidal flooding         events.                   maintenance ofthe
risky physical                                                           systems are sustained.
environmentfor the
economic recovery,                                                       Long-termdrainage
facilitating investment                                                  planning is appropriate
and longterm                                                             to the growingneeds of
sustainability ofthe                                                     BandaAceh
affectedareas.
Objective 1             Chronictidal           Absence of visual evidence System designs are
Fasttrack protection    incursioninthe         and reports of flooding    appropriate.
against tidal incursion projectarea is         events associated with
to vulnerable areas.    preventedwithin three  design intensityevents.    Constructionis
                        months.                                           appropriate.
Objective2              Chronictidal and       Absence ofvisual evidence System designs are
Emergency protection    storm water incursion  and reports of flooding    appropriate.
against stormwater and inthe projectarea is    events associatedwith
tidal incursionto       progressively          design intensityevents.    Constructionis
vulnerableareas.        preventedover an 10-                              appropriate.
                        15 monthperiod
Objective3              Pumpsand valves        Recordsof pump             Operatorsmaintain
Sustainableoperation    operate correctly as   operation.                 records.
and maintenanceof       and when required.
drainage system in                             Visual inspectionof valve  Managers inspect
BandaAceh               Marineincursionsare    operation.                 records.
                        prevented
                                               Absence ofvisual evidence Operatorsinspect
                        Storm water is         andreports of flooding     valves.
                        removedwithout         events associatedwith
                        causing flooding       design intensityevents.    Institutional
                                                                          strengthening is
                                                                          effective.

                                                                          Fundingis sustainable.

                                                                          Qualified staff are
                                                                          recruitedandretained.


                                               22

Objective4               Emergency works are    Long-term,city wide        Long-termplan is based
Integrationof            hydraulically          drainage plan includes the on similar design
emergency program        compatiblewith long-   emergency works            assumptions as
into long-termCity       term plan.             efficiently.               emergencyworks.
wide drainage system
Objective5               Populationinaffected   Comparisonof regular       Counter influencesdo
Economicrecovery         areas.                 datdstatistics sets:       not compromise
takes place facilitating                            0   Population         beneficialeffectsof
investment               GDP of population.             GDP                drainage system, e.g. air

                                                    0   Investment         pollution, slum
                         Investment in affected     0   Health             development, and
                         area.                                             economic disruption.

                         Illness and disease                               Other urban servicesare
                         associatedwith water-                             providedat appropriate
                         bornevectors.                                     levels e.g. roads, public
                                                                           transport, and
                                                                           commercialand leisure
                                                                           facilities.




                                                23

                                Annex 4: ImplementationArrangements

                                                 INDONESIA
 EMERGENCY REHABILITATIONOF THE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD PROTECTION
                                SYSTEM OF BANDAACEH PROJECT

The Project will be underthe supervision of a Steering Committee that will include a
representative from BRR and from the relevant provincial and city agencies. A representative o f
MuslimAid will also be a member.The committee will be chaired by BRR.

The implementation arrangements are shown schematically below:

                                          ProjectImplementation

                                             MDTF

                                                 I       Project Steering
                                                         Committee
                                         Special Account (BRR, PU, MA)



                                                                              Consultant Services
                                                                                                 -


                              FinanoalManagement




                                                        1
                               Project Implementation Contractors and Suppliers
                                                       -

          MDTF = Multi Donor Trust Fund
          BRR Agency for Reconstructionof Aceh and Nias
          PU = PublicWorks Department
          MA = MuslimAid


The Steering Committee will be responsible for:

       ensuringgood coordinationbetweenthe Executing Agency and the government agencies;
       facilitating communication betweenthe executing agency, government agencies and the
       MDTFANS;
       liaison with Government on behalf o f the project;
       media releasesregarding the project; and
       for the project's overall compliance with all World Bank safeguards policies, anti-
       corruption procedures and policies, procurement policies, and sound financial
       management practices.




                                                       24

Project implementation will be the responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The
PIUwill be incharge of disbursing funds andcontrolling the DesignatedAccount. The PIU will
be subjected to financial audit and will be evaluatedby the MDTFANS/WorldBank supervision
missions. The PIU will establish internal andground level checks and monitoring systems to
assess project performance as well as involve local stakeholdersinproject planning and review
meetings.

MuslimAid will appoint consultantsto undertakethe detailed design, preparethe biddocuments,
preparethe environmental assessment andEMP, superviseandmonitor the contractors and
provide institutional strengtheningandtraining services. The consultant will report to PIU
management, who will be the head of MA's current program inIndonesia.

Inaddition to the roles mentioned above, the Provincial andCity Public Works Departmentswill
be responsiblefor approving all designproposals for the works. BRRwill coordinate all projects
inthis sector andarea. BRRwill alsobe responsibleto work with localgovernmentsandMA to
ensure the project i s implementedinaccordancewith World Bank policies on land acquisition
and resettlement (World Bank OP 4.12).

MuslimAid andthe City of BandaAcehhave signed aMemorandum ofUnderstanding (MOU)
datedMay 1Oth 2005 covering the scope of the project. The MOU also covers exchange of
information, reporting, and indemnification of MA with respectto loss, damage, or injury and
secondparty liabilities. The MOU also sets standards for project delivery and procedures for
resolving disputes.

MonitoringandEvaluationof Outcomes/Results

MuslimAid, with the assistanceofthe consulting firmhiredunderthe project for engineering
and construction supervision, will be responsibleto develop and implementa monitoringand
evaluation systemfor the project. Overall project implementation will be tracked using the
project's key development indicators. Inaddition, physical implementation progress, financial
indicators, and systemperformance will be measuredto determine the effectiveness of the
interventions inpreventing flooding inthe project area. For the project social and environmental
aspects, the M&Eframework is describedinthe social and environmental assessments. The
EMP will include a key monitoring indicator to be followed during project implementation by
the supervisionteam andreported on regularly as part of project reporting systems. The project
steering committee will be responsible for monitoringoverall project implementation.




                                                25

                                       Annex 5: ProjectCosts

                                           INDONESIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATIONOF THE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD PROTECTION
                             SYSTEM OF BANDAACEH PROJECT

                                       EstimatedProjectCosts
                              Componentand ExpenditureCategory

                                                                 Expenditure US $
                                                                  Category  Million
1. UrgentTidal FloodProtectionProgram
Tidal Flow Control Values                                            G        0.075
Installationof Tidal Flow ControlValves                             cw          0.05
                                                         Subtotal              0.12




CS=Consulting Services; G=Goods; CW=Civil Works

All estimates include contingencies and taxes.




                                                26

                             Annex 6: ProcurementArrangements

                                          INDONESIA
 EMERGENCY REHABILITATION OF THE DRAINAGE AND FLOODPROTECTION
                           SYSTEM OF BANDAACEH PROJECT

General. Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004;
and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement. The general description of
various items under different expenditure category i s included below. For each contract to be
financed by the Grant from the MDTFANS, the different procurement methods or consultant
selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed
betweenthe Grant Recipientand the Bank project team inthe ProcurementPlan. This plan will
be updated at least annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Special Procurement Provisions. Considering the emergency nature of the project and to
acceleratethe procurement process, the following special procurement provisions will be made:
        (a) The design and supervision consultant (est. contract amount US$ 785,000) which i s
             key to accelerate the design and procurement of the main rehabilitation works
             package will be selected through Selection Based on Consultant's Qualification
             (CQS) method.
        (b) The main rehabilitation goods and works packages (total contract amount US$
             3,270,000) will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
        (c) The procurement of initial tidal flow valves (est. contract amount US$ 75,000) will
             be procured through Shopping.
        (d) There will be five procurement packages that will be procured prior to effectiveness
             of the Grant. These contracts will be funded on a retroactive finance basis. These
             are:
                   (i) A Technical Specialist to support PIU awarded to an Individual
                         Consultant (IC),
                   (ii)  An accounting firm, selectedthrough Single Source Selection (SSS),
                   (iii) Design and Supervision Consultant, selectedthrough CQS,
                   (iv)  Procurement of Tidal Flow Valves, procured using Shopping from
                         international suppliers,
                  (v)    Procurement of small works for the Tidal Flow Valves installation using
                         Shopping.

Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this project would include the immediate
procurement of approximately six tidal flow valves with an estimated contract amount of
US$85,000. The procurement of this package will use Shopping method to accelerate the
procurement process and this package will be funded on a retroactive financing basis.
Additional tidal valves will be procured estimatedto costs US$470,000.




                                                27

A model request for quotation for Shopping will be developed and approved by the Bank before
negotiations.

Procurement of Works. Works procuredunderthis project, will include:

         (a) Procurement of small works for the immediate installation of tidal flow valves with
             estimated contract amount of US$ 50,000. This package will be procured through
             Shopping prior to effectivenessof the project on aretroactive finance basis.
         (b) Procurement of works for the main rehabilitation works for the drainage system.
             The estimated contract amounts for these package is US$ 2,800,000 and will
             includethe supply and installation of small pumps, motors, valves, etc. Considering
             the emergency nature of the project this package will be selected through NCB.
             Any interested foreign contractors will be allowed to participate.

A model bidding document for NCB and request for quotation for Shopping will be developed
and approvedby the Bank before negotiations.

Selectionof Consultants. Consultant services underthis project will include:
             Consulting Services to Support PIU capacity, which consist o f (i)an Individual
             Engineering and Procurement Specialist to assist in the engineering design of the
             immediate small works for flood control package, manage the four immediate
             procurement packages, and supervise the Design and Engineering Consultant firm
             during implementation, and (ii)an accounting firm to assist Muslim Aid in
             improving the PIU's financial management and accounting system. The accounting
             firm will be selected through Single Source Selection based on the emergency
             nature of the project and small value of the assignment. This package will be
             fundedon a retroactive financing basis.
             Design and Supervision Consultant Firmto initially design the specifications for the
             main works and then supervise the implementation of the main rehabilitation works.
             The estimated contract for this package is US$ 785,000. However, due to its vital
             role in the project this package will be procured through CQS on an exceptional
             basis to accelerate the procurement process. A draft TOR of this package has been
             prepared by Muslim Aid and has been agreed in principle with the Bank. This
             package will be fundedon a retroactive financing basis.
             Consulting Firms for Annual Audit and Training and Workshops for operations of
             the Drainage System. Workshops and training will include events at national,
             provincial, and district level. Training courses will be conducted for capacity
             building of management, operation and maintenance of urban drainage systems.
             The Audit firm will be selected using Least Cost Selection (LCS) method and the
             Training and workshop consultant will be selectedusing CQS.

A simplified RFP document has been developed and approved based on the Bank's standard
RFP.




                                               28

Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement. The Executing Agency is
Muslim Aid. Muslim Aid was established 20 years ago during the Ethiopian famine and now
operates in 50 countries. MuslimAid United Kingdom is a registered charity with the Charities
Commission and MuslimAid Australia is recognizedby the Australian Government. Projects in
Sri Lanka and Indonesia are funded jointly by Muslim Aid United Kingdom and Muslim Aid
Australia. Muslim Aid has been involved in global reconstruction and relief efforts Muslim
Aid's Indonesian budget for 2006 is over US$12 million. MuslimAid's current work inAceh is
primarily focused on housing and water and sanitation inBanda Aceh and Sabang, working with
local governments in both areas. In addition, the financial skills needed in Muslim Aid for
underpinning implementation would be strengthened through on-going programs implemented
by the internationally experiencedFaith ReganFoundation, their managementadvisers.

MuslimAid's procurement capacity inAceh is weak, with very limitedprocurement experience
of small purchases for office equipmentsand utensils, andprocurement of seven works packages
under their housing program with contract amounts ranging from around US$25,000 to
US$325,000, to build a total of 280 48 m2 type traditional Aceh houses. The Executing Agency
in Aceh does not have formal procurement guidelines. However, the procurement of works for
the housing program adoptedthe principlesteps of a generic biddingprocesswith advertisement,
pre-qualification (including meetings with firms),         technical and financial evaluation,
negotiations/clarifications, and contract award. The procurement is conducted by a committee
consisting of the Housing Program Coordinator, the Financial and Accounting manager and the
Director. MuslimAid Aceh has no designatedprocurement staff intheir current organization. No
procurement filing   system is inplace and there are no standardprocurement forms available. The
executing agency's very limitedcapacity to execute this project needs to be augmented.

Most of the issues/ risks concerning the procurement component for implementation of the
project have been identified and include: (a) the procurement capacity of the executing agency
and their ability to develop specs and Bill of Quantities for the packages is weak and no
procurement staff is currently available, (b) the limited availability of goods and equipment in
general in post-tsunami Aceh, and the limited availability of specific goods, e.g. tidal flow
valves, in the country, (c) the need to deliver the project on a fast track basis, (d) the general
procurement environment is weak and collusive practices have been found in past projects at
various levels.

The corrective measures which have beenagreedare:

    0   Employment by MuslimAid of a technical specialist to support the PIU in managing the
        procurement processes, and in particular the immediate procurement packages.
        Procurement capacity will be further increased once the Design and Supervision
        Consultant is on board, by having a contracts and procurement expert included in the
        consultant firm's team. The Design and Supervision consultant will be preparing the
        bidding documents with the supervision of the Engineering and ProcurementSpecialist;
    0   Model bidding documents for NCB, RFQ for Shopping, and RFP for Consultant Firm
        selection will be developed and agreed with the Bank;
    0   All packages that will be fundedon a retroactive basis will be subject to prior review;




                                                29

    0    Key equipments, e.g. tidal flow valves, will be procured internationally through
        Shopping;
    a   Specific Procurement provisions as elaborated above are made to deliver the works,
        goods and services quickly inresponse to the emergency nature o f the project;
    0   Training o f PIU staff on procurement will be provided by the World Bank at the earliest
        opportunity once the Engineering and Procurement Specialist i s on board; and
    0   To ensure transparency in the procurement process, enhanced procurement procedures
        will be included in the Grant Agreement which includes disclosure o f procurement
        documents and information to the public promptly upon request.

 The overall project risk for procurement i s `High'.

 Procurement Plan. A procurement plan for project implementation has been developed which
 provides the basis for the procurement methods and prior review requirements. This plan was
 agreed between the Executing Agency and the Bank in November 2005, and i s available in
 project file. The plan will also be available inthe Project's database and in the Bank's external
 website. The procurement plan will be updated inagreement with the project team annually or as
 required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
 capacity.

 Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision. Inaddition to the prior review supervision to carried
 out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment o f the executing agency recommends that field
 supervision will be carried out at least once every six months.

 Retailof the ProcurementArrangements.The following table explainsthe procurement
 arrangements under this project:




4     Procurementof Small          1          Shopping      50,000      Yes      Retroactive Financing
      Works for Tidal Valves
      installation
5     Procurementof Tidal          1          Shopping      75,000      Yes      Retroactive Financing
      Flow Valves
Main Rehabilitation Works
6     Procurementof Civil          1           NCB         3,270,000    Yes      Including supply and
      Works for Drainage                                                         installation of pumps
      System Rehabilitation                                                      and valves
Audit and Training & Workshop Consultant Services
7     Annual Audit                 1            LCS         40,000       No
8     Training and Workshops I     1           CQS          100,000      No
      TOTAL                                                4,500,000



                                                  30

Prior review threshold for goods i s US$50,000 and works i s US$500,000 and for consulting
f i r m s i s US$lOO,OOO. For consulting contracts with individuals the prior review threshold is
US$50,000. All immediate procurement packages funded through retroactive financing will be
subject to prior review.

Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$400,000 equivalent per
contract, may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.




                                                 31

             Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

                                           INDONESIA
 EMERGENCY REHABILITATIONOF THE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD PROTECTION
                            SYSTEMOF BANDAACEH PROJECT

FINANCIALMANAGEMENTASSESSMENTSUMMARY

The purpose o f the project's financial management assessment i s to determine whether the
financial management system o f the implementing agency is capable o f producing timely,
understandable, relevant, and reliable financial information that would allow the Bank, other
donors and Government to monitor compliance with agreed procedures, and appraise progress
towards its objectives. The assessment aimed at ensuring that effective institutional risk
management arrangements are inplace by project effectiveness.

The project will be managed by MA (MuslimAid) which is a branch of an international NGO
based in London. MA has just established its field office in Aceh three to four months ago,
Banda Aceh field office employs about 10 staff including senior finance officer and
administration supervisor (an accountant) and an assistant. The finance unit does not have an
appropriate internal control and accounting systems in place which result in weak control
environment and lack o f transparency and accountability necessary to prevent misuses o f funds.
A brief of the findings following financial management assessment is as follows:

Risk management and internal control arrangements. There are a number of critical
weaknesses that must be addressed before such arrangements are considered acceptable. The
following institutional arrangements to address risk management concerns have been agreed by
MuslimAid:

    e  Outsourcing funds management and accounting functions to an accounting firm
       (Financial Management Agent, FMA) - Owing to (i)the newly established
       MA/Indonesia Aceh; (ii)    the requirement for detailedreviewand approval o fproposals to
       be funded; (iii)the need for timely follow-up o f fund accountabilities; and (iv)
       requirement to collate large volumes of financial information for preparation o f quarterly
       FMRs;

    e  FMA terms of reference - It is proposed that the mandate and functioning of the FMA
       will be provided by the Bank. Specific proposals comprise (i)fund accountability
       oversight function; (ii)preparation o f quarterly FMRs to be submitted to the Bank; and
       (iii)preparation o f financial statements to be audited by an independent auditor.

    e  Internalauditor - An internal auditor will be recruited to oversight the activities o f the
       accounting and internal control functions o f the Muslim Aid. The auditor will also
       conduct independent risk management on an ongoing basis, monitoring compliance with
       laid down policies and procedures, and reviewing and recommending enhancement o f
       accounting and internal controls. An internal auditor will provide copy o f the reports to
       the Bank on a quarterly basis.



                                                 32

Given this high risk environment, it is important that proactive and innovative control and
oversight functions are inplace to address associated risks. The following practical arrangements
for public oversight are proposed:

          Anti-corruution hotlines including toll free communication lines should be established
          with explicit arrangements for collation o f information, follow-up action and public
          reporting. It i s proposed that collation and follow-up responsibilities are vested in
          Internal Audit arrangements andoverseen by the MDTF Committee.

Funds flow and accountability arrangements. There are a number o f critical weaknesses that
must be addressed before such arrangements are considered acceptable under proposed funding
arrangements. These comprise:

     (a) Accounting urocesses - FMA will be responsible for payment processing procedures
          with a view to improving efficiency, effective control and timeliness. Key
          considerations in the process will include (i) oversight functions from involvement in
          routine transaction processing to conducting independent reviews; and (ii)   developing
          effective accountability follow-up processes by consolidating the responsibility under
          the FMA.

     (b) Operation o f the Designated Account -- About US$3.3 million will be disbursed using
          direct payment procedures for civil work for drainage system rehabilitation. For the
          remaining balance, disbursement will be made on a transactional basis. Muslim Aid
          will establish a Designated Account (DA) at a commercial bank in Banda Aceh,
          Indonesia which is capable o f providing efficient payment and clearing facilities. The
          Bank would, upon request, make an authorized allocation o f US$lOO,OOO. Use of the
          direct payment method for disbursements will be maximized.

     (c) Quarterly financial monitoring reporting will include the following: (i)        financial
          reports, (ii)
                      physical progress (output monitoring) report; and (iii)procurement plan.
                                                                            a

Institutional and staffing arrangements. MMndonesia Aceh will be responsible for the
overall financial management of the project. Matters requiring attention in order to ensure the
establishment o f reliable accounting and internal control systems include Outsourcing of
financial management and accounting to an Accounting Firm (FMA).

Annual financial reporting and independent audit arrangements. The project will be
audited annually in accordance with international auditing standards by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank. The auditor's report will be made available to the Bank within six
months of the close o f the fiscal year for the annual audit. The audits will include a separate
opinion on the SOE, the Designated Account and project assets. The first audit will include a
review and commentary on the adequacy o f internal controls and a post-review o f any retroactive
expenditures.    A qualified, independent firm, acceptable to the Bank, will be appointed as
external auditor within six months after Grant Agreement signing. The costs o f annual audits will
be financed from the proceeds o f the Grant.



                                                33

Financial management action plan. The outcome of this review is included in a financial
management improvement plan comprising actions to be completed prior to Grant effectiveness
andongoing actions to be followed up duringproject implementation.

Conclusion. The project financial management risk is assessed as being high. Overall
conclusion o f the assessment i s that with the implementation o f the action plan, the proposed
financial management arrangements for the project satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements
under OP/BP10.02 and are adequate to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of the project requiredby the Bank.


Country issues

The past deficiencies in Indonesia's PFM system have beenwell documented. While donor led
diagnostic studies such as the CFAA o f 2001 and various IMF reports over the past six to eight
years have outlined these deficiencies in some detail, the problems have also been generally well
understood by the Indonesian authorities. But the will and commitment to reform (rather than the
capacity to reform) have been lacking. The major acknowledged deficiencies have been:
     -- an outdated legal environment for PFM;
        an opaque and inefficient budgetformulation process, includingthe dividing of the
        budget into separate recurrent and development budgetsadministeredby different

     -  agencies (MOF and Bappenasrespectively);
        difficulties in implementingthe budget, due to an inefficient payments systemand weak

     -  monitoring arrangements;
        fragmented cash management and government banking arrangements;
     -
     -  fragmented and unreliable accounting and reporting systems; and
         inadequate auditing o f government finances, reflecting unclear roles and responsibilities
         inexternal andinternal auditing arrangements and some lack of capacity inaudit
         institutions.

Recent PFM reforms in Indonesia have been part o f a broader reform agenda o f macroeconomic
stability set out in the EPP or White Paper o f 2001.          A Financial Management Reform
Committee (FMRC) was established inNovember 2001 to oversee and coordinate PFM reforms
and produced a White Paper on PFM reform in May 2003. The Government has articulated an
objective o f having a "state o f the art" PFM system by 2008. The Indonesia PFM reform agenda
i s thus clearly led by the Government, but with technical support being provided by a range of
donors - World Bank, IMF and Asian Development Bank being the main players.

Major progresshas occurred in establishing the legal framework for improved PFM, and inthe
restructuring of MOF. Other important changes inthe classification and structure of the budget
also occurred inthe 2005 budget.


FINANCIALMANAGEMENTSYSTEMS

Internal controls and financial management guidelines. The project's internal controls are


                                                 34

based on the FMA's established accounting and internal control systems and documented inthe
financial operations manual and guidelines. The manual is to be drafted and will be subject to
review by the World Bank FMS prior to Grant effectiveness.


Planning and budgeting.The proposedperiodic reporting guidelines require periodic activity,
cash flow and procurement projection, analysis and review on an ongoing basis, included in
quarterly FMRs.

Books of account. The project's accounting records will be maintained by the FMA.

AUDIT ARRANGEMENTS

Internalaudit. An internal auditor responsible for oversight of the activities of the accounting
and internal control functions of the MNIndonesia Aceh will be recruited. The auditor will also
conduct independent risk management on an ongoing basis, monitoring compliance with laid
downpolicies and procedures, andreviewing andrecommending enhancement of accounting and
internal controls. An internal auditor will provide copy of the reports to the Bank on a quarterly
basis.

External audit. The project will be audited on an annual basis inaccordance with international
auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. An auditor is implicitly
expected to assess the project implementing agency's internal control arrangements over
financial  reporting. Audits are also expected to evaluate and confirm that all project
disbursements have been for expenditures that were eligible for financing. However, financial
statement audits are not meant to identify fraud and corruption, which require different auditing
skills and methodology, but financial audits are the only authorized instrument we have to work
with. Inthis context, some suggestions could be emphasized: Enlarge Audit terms of reference
by seeking a specific assertion on the adequacy of project internal control systems and their
satisfactory operation during the period under review. The Bank funding agreements require the
submission of audited financial statements, taking into consideration the 2003 Audit Policy
Guidelines of the World Bank, within six months after the year-end. The audits will include a
separate opinion on the SOE, the Designated Account and project assets. The first audit will
include a review and commentary on the adequacy of internal controls and a post-review of any
retroactive expenditures.

A qualified, independent firm, acceptable to the Bank, will be appointed as external auditor
withinsix months after grant agreementsigning. The costsof annual audits will be financed from
the proceedsof the Grant.

Reportingandmonitoring

Financialmonitoring reports. The form and content of periodic financial monitoring reports
(FMRs) has been developed and agreed at negotiations. The final FMR will be developed and
includedas part of the Financial Management Manual. Primary contents of quarterly FMRs will
comprise (i) Financial Reports, including a statement of sources and uses of funds by funding
source, a statement of uses of funds by project activityhomponent; and fund balance statements


                                                 35

supported by bank statements (ii)Physical progress (output monitoring) report and (iii)a
procurement plan and progress report. FMRs will cover all project activities, including MA
counterpart funding, resources provided by other Development Partners (if any) and non-cash
contributions wherever reasonably quantifiable.

Annual financial statements. MNIndonesia Aceh financial statements shall be prepared in
accordance with International Accounting Standards. Indicative formats of financial statements
were agreedupon at negotiations.


IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORTPLAN

Implementation support missions by the Bank will be conducted at least every six months. The
mission's objectives will include that of ensuring that strong financial management systems are
maintained for the project throughout its life. Inaddition, Statement of Expenditure reviews will
be carried out regularly to ensure that expendituresincurred by the project remain eligible.

DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS

Requests for disbursement by the Bank for activities to be financed will be made using the
transaction based mechanism. Another acceptable method of withdrawing funds under this
arrangement i s the direct payment method, involving direct payments to suppliers for works,
goods and services upon request from the executing agency (MA). Payments may also be made
to a commercial bank for expenditures against pre-agreed special commitments. The
DisbursementLetter will stipulate the minimumapplication value for direct payment and special
commitment procedures.

About US$3.3 million will be disbursed using direct payment procedure for civil work for
drainage system rehabilitation. For the remaining balance, disbursement will be made on a
transactional basis. Muslim Aid will establish a Designated Account (DA) at a commercial bank
inBandaAceh, Indonesiawhichis capable ofproviding efficient payment and clearing facilities.

The Bank would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$50,000. The SA will be
maintained by the project implementation unit. These amounts would be used only for the
purposes of the project to cover its project expenditures.

Subsequent replenishment of the Designated Account will be based on Withdrawal Applications
supported by statement of expenditures (SOEs) for (a) goods, (b) services of consulting firms
costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract, (c) of individual consultants costing less
than US$50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) training and workshops, and (e) incremental
operating costs.

Supporting documents will be maintained by the project implementation team, and made
available to the Bank's visiting missions and auditors as required, The project implementation
unit will also prepare and provide to the Bank its quarterly reports on implementation progress
along with Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in formats agreed with the Bank. The FMRs
will be usedfor monitoring purposes.



                                                 36

Preparation and presentation of FMRs will be required regardless of the selected method of
funding disbursement.

Retroactive Financing

Retroactive financing of up to US$450,000 would be available for eligible expenditures incurred
since November 15, 2005, which is the date of completion of the Bank's appraisal, provided they
comply with the agreed procurement guidelines. In addition, documentation requirements for
expenditures claimed under retroactive financing are the same as those for disbursement against
payments made after the Grant Agreement is signed. This Retroactive financing provision would
allow for the Grant to cover initial setup costs for the PIU, hiring of consultants, and for the
implementation of the required steps for grant agreement signing, including development of the
financial management system.


REMEDIES

Ifineligible expendituresare found to have beenmade from the Designated Account, the
executing agency will be obligated to refund the same. If Designated Account remains inactive
for more than six months, the Bank may reduce the amount advanced.

The Bank will have the right, as to be reflected inthe Grant Agreement, to suspend disbursement
of the funds if significant terms of the Grant Agreement, including reporting requirements, are
not complied with.




                                                37

OVERALL RISK ASSESSMENT
SUMMARY OF POSSIBLE RISKSAND AGREED MITIGATING ARRANGEMENTS
   Acph
   Possible Risk in Rating Agreed Mitigatingarrangements                      Rating
                                                                              with
                                                                              mitigation
                                  Outsourcingof accounting and reporting M
   failure to account             functions. FMA will provide pre-audit
   for project funds              verification of all payments in excess of
                                  $10,000.
   H                              Public disclosure of audit report and anti-
                                  corruption initiatives as outlined in the
                                  Anti-corruptionAction Plan.
   s
   Ineffectiveaudit               Inclusion of internal audit function into M
   functions                      FMA's TORS and employ professional
                                  goodpractices.
                         I
   Political                      Off-budget implementation by Muslim M
   involvement in                 Aid.
   <fundsflow process
     RATING - H(HIGH RISK), (SUBSTANTIAL RISK), M(MODERAT RISK)



The project's overall risk assessment and summary ofmitigating measuresis as follows:

Type of Risk                   Risk       RiskMitigatingMeasures
                               Rating
InherentRisk
 1. Corruption                 S          Anti-corruption hotlines including toll free
                                          communication lines should be established with
                                          explicit arrangementsfor collation of information,
                                          follow-up action and public reporting. It is
                                          proposed      that   collation     and   follow-up
                                          responsibilities are vested in Internal Audit
                                          arrangements and overseen by the MDTF
                                          Committee.

2. Weak management             H          Effective internal audit, risk managementfunction
    capacity.                             and effectiveoversight.

                                          Outsourcingof financialmanagementand
                                          accountingfunctions. Introductionof accounting
                                          oversight and payment function at MA/Indonesia
                                          Aceh.

OverallInherent Risk           H




                                                38

  ControlRisk
  1. Implementingentities      H          Risks arise from poor control environment. Risk
                                          mitigationpossible through clear InternalControl
                                          Arrangements,     Financial Management      and
                                          AccountingProcedures.

  2. Fundsflow                 S          Risk mitigation possible through pre-audit
                                          verificationby Fh4A of all payments in excess of
                                          us$lo,ooo.

  3. Staffing                  H          Risksarise from weak staff capacity. Permanent
                                          staffhaveonly a six-monthcontract. Risk
                                          mitigationpossiblethroughoutsourcingof
                                          internalaudit and accountingfunctions.

  4. Accountingpoliciesand     H          Risksarise from lack of project'sFMmanual.
     procedures                           FMA will draft financial management and
                                          accountingprocedures.

  5. Internalaudit             H          Risks arise from lack of internalcontrol
                                          arrangements.Effectiveinternalaudit functionin
                                          place, accountingand auditingfirm (FMA)
                                          recruitedwith TORSacceptableto the Bank.

  6. Externat audit            S          The project will be audited by an Independent
                                          AuditingFirm.

  7. Reportingandmonitoring S             Risks arise from lack of reportingand monitoring
                                          systems in implementingagency.A Financial
                                          Monitoringand Reportingwill bepreparedby the
                                          FMA.

  8. Informationsystems        S          MA/IndonesiaAceh existingsystems are assessed
                                          as insufficientlycapableof accounting and
                                          reportingfor projectactivities.

  Overall Control Risk         H
~~




The project financial management risk is assessed as being high. Overall conclusion of the
assessment i s that with the implementation of the following action plan, the proposed financial
management arrangements for the project satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements under
OP/BP10.02 and are adequate to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
informationon the status of the project requiredby the Bank.




                                                39

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN

Actions agreedprior to Grant effectiveness:

                                           Action
1     Financial Management Agent contracting completed on agreedterms of
      reference.
2     Financial Management Manualrelatedto the Bank's procedures, approved by the
      Bank's FMS, Annual and quarterly reporting (FMRs) formats agreed.
3     Internal Control procedures inplace.

Actions requiredfollowing signing of the grant agreement:
                                           Action
1     Selection o f an auditor with TOR approvedby the Bank completed not later than
      six months after the grant agreement is signed.




                                               40

                                       Annex 8: Safeguards

                                          INDONESIA
 EMERGENCY REHABILITATIONOF THEDRAINAGEAND FLOOD PROTECTION
                             SYSTEM OF BANDAACEH PROJECT

Environment

The project area is located in North Sumatra, and is visually dominated by a mountain ridge
extending west to southeast. The coastal plains have beendevelopedinthe area and Banda Aceh
City has been urbanized. There are no national parks near the project area. There is one cultural
landmark, Syiah Kuala Tomb; however, it is located well outside of the project area on the
seacoast. The terrestrial ecosystem in the project area is common to other urbanized areas of
Indonesia.

The mangrove areas inand around Banda Aceh were cleared prior to the tsunami and converted
into fish or shrimp ponds, leaving mangrove areas only in shallow lagoons or near river mouths.
While no quantitative data are available, the mangrove areas in Banda Aceh were almost
completely destroyed. Mangrove reclamation projects have already been undertaken within the
devastated areas of the city, and creation of a coastal zone mangrove belt is part of the
rehabilitation and construction master plan for disaster mitigation. There project is not located in
the coastal zone slated for mangrove forest establishment. Moreover, the majority of the project
works would consist of rehabilitation of existing structures and would not impact mangrove
reclamation projects.

Most of the city o f Banda Aceh is built on a coastal flood plain which is liable to flooding from
three sources: From high spring tides, from floods in the rivers which overtop the levee banks
and from local flooding due to extreme rainfall events. The destruction of the flood relief
gateshalves and pumping stations has resultedin periodic flooding of low lying areas in Banda
Aceh. The flooding has been made worse because Banda Aceh has sunk an estimated 30 to 40
cm as a result of the land movement caused by the massive earthquakes. Over 50% of Banda
Aceh city is liable to flooding from extreme tidal or extreme rainfallevents.

Major floods occur in Banda Aceh due to high tides flooding low lying areas and due to sheet
flooding from spillover from the Aceh River [Kreung Aceh] and other rivers running through
Banda Aceh as a result of extreme rainfall events. Major floods have occurred on average every
7 years: 1953, 1971, 1978 (twice), 1986, 2000 and 2002. Thus Banda Aceh could get a major
flood this year or next year. The flood in 2000 lasted 15 days and flooded over 60% of Banda
Aceh. Apart from these major floods there are annual flood events. The flood gates and pumping
stations were installed gradually step by step to minimize flooding. Pumpswere installed starting
with one in 1978, then 5 in 1984-5,2 in 1994,6 in 1995-6 and2 in2000.

Now that most of the flood gates and pumps have been destroyed or damagedthey are no longer
effective, and BandaAceh is liable to widespread, major flooding.




                                                41

Muslim Aid reports that level runs have been made to verify that the system will work once
restored, The design storm used was the 20-year return, since there i s not much difference in
rainfall from the 50-year storm (unlike temperate climates).

EnvironmentalAssessment

The project does not trigger Indonesian EIA requirements. If new retention ponds were to be
built,thenan EIA would be required. No newretentionpondsare plannedinthis project.


Six check valves will be installed to replace damaged valves at the existing tide control structure
between Meuraxa and Kuta Raja. These replace pre-existing damaged structures; therefore the
work will be done on an emergency basis prior to a "b" category EA. As part o f the project
Integrated TA, a focused EA with an EMP will be developed as a condition o f Contractor
mobilization for the balance o f the works. This EA will be disclosed and a public consultation
meeting will be held.

ProjectAlternatives

The no action alternative will result in the increased risk o f a waterborne disease epidemic in a
vulnerable population struggling to rebuild after a devastating natural disaster.

ProjectImpacts

The large scale impact o f the project would be the alleviation of chronic flooding in the urban
area o f Banda Aceh. The flood waters are contaminated by septic discharge due to destruction o f
the septic sludge treatment facility and breakdown o f the city's septic tank maintenance system
of pump trucks. There is now direct discharge from septic tanks into the drainage ways that are
prone to flooding. Control o f the contaminated water flooding residential areas, temporary tent
camps o f the homeless and other sensitive receptors would permanently improve this public
health risk. It i s reported that flood waters are often knee-deep in the temporary tent sites o f the
homeless.

Drainage would also reduce proliferation o f disease vectors; malaria and dengue fever are
endemic in the area.       Effective vector control would require that the drains be cleaned to
completely prevent pooling of water. The dengue mosquito vector will breed in the smallest
puddles.

Construction impacts could include: disruption o f traffic flow, dust, noise, disposal o f spoils
from drainage ditch cleaning and disposal o f hazardous materials such as crankcase oil from
heavy equipment maintenance. As part o f the project Integrated TA, a focused EA with an EMP
to cover the construction impacts listed above will be developed as a condition o f Contractor
mobilization.

Operations impacts could include: contamination of receiving water with septage effluent,
lowering o f the surficial aquifer (draining flooded land), and a change back to the (pre-tsunami)
regime o f rainfall and river recharge o f the surficial aquifer.


                                                   42

Contamination o f Receiving Water with Septage Effluent: This project i s an emergency action,
and only represents the beginning o f implementation o f a developing plan that includes
installation o f sewers and wastewater treatment facilities (see anticipated future projects below).

Lowering o f the Surficial Aquifer: The current flooded conditions make the reconstruction o f
much o f the urban area impossible. A drainage program that would lower the water table to pre-
tsunami levels will enable reconstruction.

Saline Recharge from Tidal Flooding: Seawater from tidal flooding has brought saline water into
the recharge zones o f the surficial aquifer.     This aquifer i s used locally for supply from
tubewells. Removal of saline water recharge o f the surficial aquifer through control o f tidal
seawater flooding will remove this source o f salinization o f the surficial wells experienced inthe
area.

Anticipated Future Projects

The Emergency Rehabilitation of the Drainage System for Banda Aceh will be integrated with
the City Master Drainage Plan. The JICA Study on Urgent Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Support for Banda Aceh details plans for a sewage system and wastewater treatment facilities
(implementation after 2009).     JICA has committed to rehabilitate the damaged wastewater
(septage sludge) treatment plant as an urgent measure (2005).          Additional septage treatment
work i s plannedby JICA for service in2007.

Construction of Pump Stations and Flow Control Structures.                Six check valves will be
installed to replace damaged valves at the existing tide control structure between Meuraxa and
Kuta Raja. These replace pre-existing damaged structures; therefore the work will be done on an
emergency basis prior to a "b" category EA. As part o f the project Integrated TA, a focused EA
with an EMP will be developed as a condition of Contractor mobilization for the balance o f the
works, This EA will be disclosed and a public consultation meeting will be held.

Social

The majority o f the social impacts o f the project will be positive. Any negative aspects arising
will be handled during the implementation o f the project through ongoing monitoring by the
supervision team (PIU and consultant) and Bank. There are expected to be only minor negative
social impacts related to the need to acquire four small plots (about 100 square meters each) o f
private land to install new pumpingstations. This land will be purchased by the city government
following World Bank and GO1policies based on the Policy Framework inAnnex 9.

A Policy Framework for Land Acquisition andResettlement (PF) has beendeveloped and agreed
for the project (see Annex 9). The City Government o f Banda Aceh has substantial experience
in land acquisition based on GO1regulations o f Keppres 55/1993 and Perpres No. 36/2005, but
limited experience in carrying out land acquisition in accordance with the World Bank
Resettlement Policy. A Tim PengadaadPembebasan Tanah (Land Acquisition Team) and a Tim
Penilai Tanah (Land Assessment Team) were established by the City in 2005 in response to



                                                43

Presidential RegulationNo. 3612005 on the LandAcquisition for the Development for the Public
Purposes. This team will be responsible for land acquisition under the project under the
oversight o f BRR and the project SteeringCommittee. The City Government of Banda Aceh has
agreed to make the budget required for land acquisition under the project available in FY 2006.
Ifthelandisnotmadeavailablebythetimeofsignatureofthecontractforcivilworks,thenew
pumping stations will be dropped from the project.

A land acquisitiodresettlement expert will be hiredto support the PIU, particularly in the early
stage of the project. This consultant will provide training for the City Public Works Agency, as
well as the Land Acquisition and Land Assessment Teams as needed. This expert will also
monitor the project to ensure that this Policy Framework is implemented.The expert will also
prepare a report for the PIU, the Executing Agency and the Steering Committee on
implementation o f the framework.




                                                44

             Annex 9: PolicyFrameworkfor LandAcquisitionand Resettlement

                                          INDONESIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION OF THE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD PROTECTION
                           SYSTEM OF BANDAACEH PROJECT

Definitions

The definitions used inthis Policy Framework are:

         "Census" means the head count o f those persons under a proposed sub-project that
         qualify as Displaced Persons. The date o f the Census i s the latest cut-off point to record
         the persons in the sub-project area that will receive compensation, resettlement and/or
         removal and rehabilitation assistance.
         "Compensation" means the compensation at replacement cost as determined in Section
         c o f this Framework given in exchange for the taking o f land and building, inwhole or
         inpart, andall fixed assets onthe landand buildingsandcrops andtrees.
         "Land acquisition" means an activity that requires obtaining land, buildings or other
         assets from Displaced Persons for purposes o f the sub-project against provision o f
         compensation and assistance.
         "Displaced Persons", inthis Project is the land owners, means persons who, on account
         of the involuntary taking o f land and other assets as part o f the execution o f the sub-
         project resulting in a direct economic and social adverse impact, whether or not said
         Displaced Persons must physically relocate, had or would have their: (i)standard o f
         living adversely affected; (ii) title, interest inany house, land (including premises,
                                        right,
         agricultural and grazing land) or any other physical asset acquired or possessed,
         temporarily or permanently, adversely affected; (iii)access to productive assets
         adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or
         place o f residence or habitat adversely affected; and "Displaced Person" means any o f
         the Displaced Persons;
         "Physically Displaced Persons" means persons who are forced to move from their
         previous location because (i)  all or a significant portion (50% or more) o f their land or
         buildingsare affected by the sub-project; or (ii) than 50% o f their land or buildings
                                                            less
         are affected by the sub-project if the remaining portion i s not economically viable or
         habitable.
         "Rehabilitation Assistance" means the provision o f cash or assets or other forms o f
         support to enable Displaced Persons without legal rights to the assets taken by the
         Project to at least equal or improve their standard o f living, income levels and
         production capacity to the level prior to the project.
         "Resettlement" means an effort /activity to relocate the Displaced Persons into a good
         new settlement so that they can develop a better life.
         "Involuntary Displacement" means any o f the following actions, when they occur
         without the Displaced Person's informed consent or power of choice; (a) the taking o f
         land resulting in: (i)relocation or loss o f shelter; (ii)
                                                                  lost assets or access to assets; or
         (iii) ofincomesourcesormeansoflivelihood,whetherornottheDisplacedPerson
              loss
         must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction o f access to legally



                                                 45

        designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods o f
        the displaced.
    (i)"Sub-project" meansaspecific infrastructure investment projectcarriedoutwithfunds
        from the Project.

Principles

   The sub-projects, in this case, the four new pumping facilities, should minimize land and
   asset acquisition and involuntary displacement.          The sub-projects should explore viable
   alternative designs or sites to minimize land and asset acquisition and displacement.
   The Project will use a transparent and participatory process to ensure that the land owners or
   the project affected persons agree on the proposed sub-projects that involve land acquisition
   or resettlement and agree uponthe scheme and level o f compensation.
   The Project should provide land owners o f various options o f the compensation schemes. The
   compensation costs will be covered by the GO1 as the recipient o f the MDTFANS. As the
   City of Banda Aceh i s the beneficiary o f the Project, the City Government o f Banda Aceh
   will have to cover the compensation costs.
   Inaccordance with traditional practice, land owners may elect to voluntarily contribute land
   or assets. Voluntary in this context will mean the donation or granting o f land and other
   assets with the full knowledge o f the purposes for which the asset is being made available
   and the economic, social and legal consequences that such an act would have on the person
   providing the asset and which act i s exercised freely and voluntarily, without any type o f
   cohesion.
   The land owners should be assisted intheir efforts to improve their livelihoods and standards
   of the living or at least to restore them, in real terms, to pre-displacement levels or to the
   levels prevailing prior to the beginningo f the project implementation, whichever i s higher.
   The land owners have the right to receive real replacement cost compensation.                   Real
   replacement cost means:

    (a) for land inurban areas, the pre-displacement market value o f land o f equal size and use,
         with similar or improved public infrastructure facilities and services and located inthe
         vicinity o f the affected land, plus the cost o f any registration and transfer taxes;

    (b) for agricultural land, the pre-sub-project or pre-displacement, whichever is higher,
         market value o f land o f equal productive potential or use located in the vicinity o f the
         affected land, plus the cost o f land preparation to levels similar to those o f affected
         land, plusthe cost o fany registrationandtransfer taxes; and


    (c)  for houses and other structures, the market cost o f the materials to build a replacement
         structure, or to repair a partially affected structure, plus the cost o f transporting building
         materials to the construction site, plus the cost o f any labor and contractors' fees, plus
         the cost o f any registration and transfer taxes. In determining the replacement cost,
         depreciation o f the asset and the value o f salvage materials are not taken into account,
         nor the value o f benefits to be derived from the sub-project deducted from the valuation
         of an affected asset. Compensation for trees, crops and other assets will be based on



                                                  46

          the replacement value using existing market prices per tree prepared by relevant
          agencies.

     (d) Land owners whose: (i)remaining land and buildings cannot be used for housing or
          works; or (ii) remaining land is less than 60 sq meters; or (iii) remaining
                          whose                                                      whose
          agricultural land is less than 50% o f its initial size or i s not economically viable; or (iv)
          whose remaining building i s less than 21 sq meters; have the option o f being included
          as Physically Displaced Persons and compensated for the taking o f the affected asset.
          Displaced Persons whose remaining land is less than 60 sq meters and remaining
          building is less than 21 sq meters, will have an option to move to a new lot of 60 sq
          meters and building o f 21 sq meters. They will be provided with compensation for the
          difference inarea between what they lost and what i s being provided to them.

Framework

        The Project will have to acquire landassets from a few land owners in each o f the four
sites where the new pumping stations will be installed. Inthis situation, the City Government o f
Banda Aceh will carry out the following:

    Prepare a simple agreement between them and the Displaced Persons (DP) which covers:
    agreement o f the sub-project proposal, the location o f the sub-project site; description o f the
    investments that require land; the land area needed; the number, names and addresses o f land
    owners including the land plot owned by each land owners that are affected by the sub-
    projects; the buildings, cropshrees and other assets affected by the sub-projects; the agreed
    scheme and compensation level as well as timing o f payment; sources and timing o f the
    budget availability; and, certification scheme for the remaining land area for the landowners.
    In cases where voluntary contributions of land or assets are indicated, clearly agreed and
    included in the agreement with all Displaced Persons: the name(s) o f the contributor(s) and
    details o f the contribution(s), verified by the PIU with the assistance o f the TA Consultant.
    The agreement should state the rationale for the contribution and the fact that the person had
    the choice o f not providing the asset. Inthe case o f involuntary contribution, the agreement
    should include the manner followed for valuation o f the assets, and this must be in
    compliance with Section c above.
    The details of bothvoluntary and involuntary schemes of land acquisition will be verified by
    the PIU with the assistant o f the TA Consultant. In the event that no consensus has been
    reached on the form and amount o f compensation, the sub-project will not be considered for
    financing.
    No Displaced Persons shall have their land or other assets taken before they have received
    the compensation and the resettlement site, ifthat is the case, as agreed upon and detailed in
    the sub-project proposal
    Payment o f compensation, displacement o f people, or preparation o f a resettlement site as
    agreed upon should be completed before the construction of the respective sub-project i s
    started.
    The agreement is to be made through a participatory and transparent process.




                                                   47

Consultation,ComplaintHandlingMechanismsandMonitoring

rn The PIU, with the assistance of the TA Consultant, will ensure that sufficient
   consultationhegotiation is taking place during the land acquisition process.
rn The DP or land owners will file complaints to the Mayor of Kota Banda Aceh through the
   PIU/TA Consultant ifthe land acquisition process is not properly carried out or if the
   agreement reacheddoes not properly materialize.
0  The PIU/TA Consultant will monitor consultationhegotiations during the land acquisition
   process and the implementation progress of the agreement between the City Government of
   Banda Aceh and the DP/land owners.
rn Inthe case that Mayor is unable to resolve the complaints, the Project will report and ask
   facilitation from the BRR as part of the SteeringCommittee. Ifno resolution is reached, then
   the Project can not finance the proposedsub-project.

ImplementingInstitutionand CapacityBuilding

        The City Government of Banda Aceh, particularly the Public Works Agency, has limited
experience in carrying out land acquisition in accordance with the World Bank Resettlement
Policy as reflected in this framework, despite experience in land acquisition based on GO1
regulations of Keppres 55/1993 and PerpresNo. 36/2005. A Tim PengadaardPembebasanTanah
(Land Acquisition Team) and a Tim Penilai Tanah (Land Assessment Team) have been
established by the City of Kota Banda Aceh as a follow up of the Presidential Regulation No.
36/2005 on the Land Acqusition for the Development for the Public Purposes. The Executing
Agency, Muslim Aid, may have experience in the process. There i s a need to have a land
acquisitionhesettlement expert in the TA Consultant team, particularly in the early stage of
Project preparation. Training for the Public Works Agency as well as the Land Acquisition and
Land Assessment Teams may be needed. This expert will help the Project to ensure that this
framework is implemented. The expert will also prepare a report for the PIU, the Executing
Agency andthe SteeringCommittee on implementation of the framework.

Time Frame

        The agreement between the City Government of Banda Aceh and the DPs/land owners
shall be completed prior to the start of any civil works contracts. Based on this agreement, the
City Government of Banda Aceh shall ensure that the budget for compensation is available,




                                               48

                             Annex 10: Anti-Corruption Action Plan

                                           INDONESIA
 EMERGENCY REHABILITATION OF THE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD PROTECTION
                             SYSTEM OF BANDAACEH PROJECT

Muslim Aid and BRRhavejointly developed the following action plan with the objective to
reduce the potential for corruption, ensure proper control and accountability for project funds,
andraise public awareness and involvement duringimplementationof the project.

Enhanceddisclosure provisions

    (a) All project audit reports, bidding documents, and monthly implementationprogress
         reports will be posted on the BRR's recovery and reconstructionweb-site www-e-aceh-
         nias.org and the UN's web-site for reconstruction, www.hurnanitariainfo.org.

    (b) At least once per month, a representative o fthe Project Steering Committee (or Muslim
         Aid, ifother members are unwillingor unavailable) will provide a short presentation of
         project progress at the regular "Shelter Coordinating Meetings" inAceh.

    (c)  MuslimAidwill, not lessthan four timesper year, prepare andprovide to NGOs,
         communities involved inthe project, and local press agencies, a short "newsletter"
         providing a summary o f current and upcoming project activities and achievements. The
         Newsletter will include the location where further information can be found and contact
         information for relevant project officials.

Civil society oversight

    (a) Muslim Aid will establish a procurement committee to carry out procurement under the
         project. This committee will include at least one observer from civil society and at
         least one end-usedaffected community representative (e.g. respected religious figure or
         traditional leader). These observers will not participate inthe procurement process, but
         act as observers o f the process.

    (b) At least once every three months, MuslimAid will arrange a project monitoring site
         visit that will include least one civil society group.

Complaintshandlingmechanism.

    (a) The BRR's existing complaints handling system will be used as the primary means of
         receiving and tracking complaints relatedto the project. The Project Steering
         Committee will be provided a regular monthly report on the status o f any complaints
         received, their status, and/or resolution.

    (b) Complaints from bidders or suppliers requiring further investigationwill be handledby
         the BRRteam established to investigate such complaints.



                                                  49

        Complaints sent directly to MuslimAid from contractorswill be forwarded to the BBR
        complaints handling unit. Ifdirected by BRR, MuslimAid will follow-up as
        appropriate and report back to BRRon their findings andpossible follow-up actions
        required.

        For complaints that involve community disputes, or requireother follow-up at the
        community-level, BRRwill make available one of its staff to act as a "troubleshooter"
        who will visit locations andattempt to settle suchdisputes, ifpossible. This personwill
        make written reportsback to the Project SteeringCommittee and BRRmanagementon
        the resolution or needfor further follow up on suchmatters.

Policiesto mitigatechances of collusion

    (a) MuslimAid will hire a specialist to support the PIU inmanaging the procurement
        processes and assist the function of the procurement committee. The specialist will help
        ensure that the relevant elements of the ACAP are carried out.

    (b) Model bidding documents will be developedand agreedwith the Bank. These will be
        usedfor all procurementunderthe project.

    (c) Muslim Aid will be allowed to carry out the procurement processunder the project
        using "off budget" procedures, without interference from political interests.

Mitigationof fraud andforgery risks

    (a) The accounting and reporting functions relatedto financial management will be
        outsourcedto a professional Financial Management Agent (FMA) acceptable to IDA.

    (b) The FMA will provide pre-audit verification of all payments inexcess of $10,000.

    (c) All financial audit reports will be publicly disclosed

    (d) The FMA will establish internal audit proceduresto monitor project expenditures

    (e) The use of direct payment proceedswill be maximized.

Sanctions and remedies

    (a) Any persons allegedly involved inthe misuse of authority and/or trust inrespect of the
        managementof the project will be subject to audit and investigation by the BRR anti-
        corruption teams and/or the World Bank's Department of Institutional Integrity (INT).

    (b) Ifsubstantiated, sanctions will be imposed inaccordancewith Bank Guidelines and/or
        Indonesia law.




                                               50

(c) Muslim Aid will beresponsibleto ensure proper use of projectfunds. Fundsfound to
    have beenusedfor purposesother thanthose intendedunder the projectwill be
   refundedto the ProjectAccount by MuslimAid.




                                      51

                         Annex 11: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                                            INDONESIA
 EMERGENCY REHABILITATION OF THE DRAINAGE AND FLOODPROTECTION
                            SYSTEM OF BANDAACEH PROJECT


                                                      Planned                 Actual
ProjectConcept Review by MDTF                    November 3,2005          November8,2005
Initial PID to PIC                              December 15,2005
Appraisal                                       November 15,2005          November 15,2005
Board/RVPapproval                                 March24, 2006             April 3, 2006
Planneddate of effectiveness                       April 21, 2006
Plannedclosingdate                                 June 30,2008

Key institutionsresponsiblefor preparation ofthe project:

1,      Agency for the Reconstructionof Aceh andNias (BRR)
2.      Muslim Aid, IndonesiaOffice
3.      World Bank

Bank staff and consultants who worked onthe projectincluded:

Name                                                  Title                          Unit
Jerry Lebo                  Task Team Leader                                      EASTR
Anirudda Dasgupta           Lead UrbanPlanner                                     EASUR
GeoffreyRead                Municipal InfrastructureSpec. (consultant)            EASUR
Agnes Albert-Loth           Senior Finance Officer                                EAPCO
Iraj Talai                  Manager, FinancialManagement                          EAPCO
ImadSaleh                  Lead Procurement Specialist                            EAPCO
FirmanDharmawan            Procurement Specialist                                 EAPCO
BismaHusan                 Procurement Specialist                                 EAPCO
IndiraDharmapatni          Sr. Operations Officer (resettlement/social)           EASUR
MelindaGood                Sr. Counsel                                            LEGEA
Alfred Picardi             EnvironmentalSpecialist (consultant)                   EASUR
Andre Bald                 Operations Officer (consultant)                        EASUR
Alun Phillips              InfrastructureSpecialist (consultant)                  EASTR
John Smithson              UrbanDrainage Specialist(consultant)                   EASUR
RajaIyer                   Quality ControlReviewer                                EASUR
Hatim Hajj                 Reviewer                                               EASTR

Bank funds expendedto date on projectpreparation:
     1. Bank resources:        $45,000
    2. Trust funds:            $107,000
    3.  Total:                 $195,000

Estimated Supervision costs:
     1. Estimatedannual supervisioncost:       $65,000 per year




                                                  52

                      Annex 12: Documents inthe ProjectFile

                                   INDONESIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATIONOF THE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD PROTECTION
                      SYSTEM OF BANDAACEH PROJECT

1,  World Bank, Procurement Capacity Assessment of Muslim Aid, Indonesia, Dated
    November 2005.
2.  World Bank, Financial ManagementAssessment of Muslim Aid, Indonesia, Dated
    November 2005.
3.  JapanInternational Cooperation Agency (JICA), Urgent Rehabilitation and
    Reconstruction Planfor Banda Aceh City,DatedAugust 2005.
4.  MuslimAid, Project ConceptNote, BandaAceh Flood Relief Flow Valves& Pump
    Stations, DatedNovember 2005.
5.  Memorandum of Understanding between Muslim Aid and City of Banda Aceh, dated
    May, 102005.




                                        53


MAPSECTION


                                  INDONESIA
             PROJECT FOR EMERGENCY                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING PUMP STATIONS


         REHABILITATION OF THE DRAINAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROPOSED PUMP STATIONS

          AND FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FLOOD GATE

                      OF BANDA ACEH
                HYDRO PUMPING STATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PRIMARY FOCUS AREA OF PROJECT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TSUNAMI-AFFECTED AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                To Darussalam

                                                                                                                                                                    Kr.                                                                                 ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                napitiT                              Kr.Rukon                                           CITY BOUNDARY / FLOOD AREA

                                                                                                                                                               ajng                                                                                     FLOODWAY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NATURAL RIVERS
                                                                                                                         ALAUKHAIYS.L.J




                                                                                          Krueng       J.L. POCUT BAREH                   J.L. T. DAUD BEUREUH                                                            Kr. Matee


                             Sta. Lampaseh A                                                    Aceh                                                                                                                 Floodway                               0           1          2           3

                      J.L. S. ISKANDARMUDA                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KILOMETERS
                                                               Sta.                                     J.L. T.CHIK DI TIRO
                                                        Punge
                                                      Jurong

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
             Krueng                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                   Neng                                            Kr.Doy    Kr.Daroy
                                                      J.L. T. UMAR                                                                                                       KruengAceh                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Banda                                                                        PACIFIC
                                                                                     J.L.SEUHA                                                                                                                Aceh                                                                                OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L A Y S  BRUNEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                    To Medan                 For Detail,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             For Detail,         A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M                A
                                                                                                                                                                                                            see main map
                                                                                                                                                                                                            see main map                                                                                   PAPUA
                                                                                                    WAH                                                                                                                            SINGAPORE                                                                  NEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GUINEA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O N E              S
APRIL                                     J.L.SUDIRMAN                                                                                                                                                                               JakartaI N    D                               I    A                        IBRD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     34428
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I N D I A N                                                 TIMOR-LESTE
     2006                                                                                                                                                                                                       O C E A N

