                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001431



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-56386)



                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

                             FOR THE BENEFIT OF

                        THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.35 MILLION

                                        TO

                                 MUSLIM AID

                                     FOR AN

      EMERGENCY REHABILITATION OF THE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD
           PROTECTION SYSTEM OF BANDA ACEH PROJECT



                                 JULY 11, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and the Pacific Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective July 11, 2010)

                   Currency Unit = Indonesian rupiah (IDR)
                          IDR 1,000 = US$ 0.1106
                             US$ 1.00 = 9040

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 ­ December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD        Agence Francaise de Developpement
BRR        Bureau for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction for Aceh and Nias
BAPPENAS   Indonesia's National Developing Agency
BA         Banda Aceh
DK3        Dinas Kebersihan dan Keindahan Kota (Solid Waste Department)
DPJSDA     Dinas Prasarana Jalan dan Sumber Daya Air (Office of Road and Water
           Resources
EA         Environmental Assessment
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
ERDS       Emergency Rehabilitation and Drainage System
FMA        Financial Management Agent
GOI        Government of Indonesia
IAP        Immediate Action Program
IP         Implementation Progress
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IEE        Initial Environmental Examination
IDA        International Development Association
JICA       Japan International Cooperation Agency
JBIC       Japan Bank for international Cooperation
LoGo       Local Government
LCS        Least Cost Selection
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
MA         Muslim Aid
MDTFANS    Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra
MTR        Mid Term Review
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MU         Moderately Unsatisfactory
MDF        Multi Donor Fund (same as MDTFANS)
MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
MCSR       Monthly Construction Status Report
NGO        Non-Government Organization
O&M        Operations and Maintenance
PDO            Project Development Objective
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PU             Public Works Department
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
QCBS           Quality and Cost Based Selection
SSS            Single-Source Selection
UNICEF         United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
U RRP          Urgent Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Plan
WB             World Bank




                                 MEMO TO READERS

Due to system constraints, please note:

   1. The Data Sheet under A. Revised Amount was not able to capture an additional
      financing amount of $2 million approved on July 27, 2009.
   2. Under section C.2 the Data Sheet, all references to BORROWER should be read
      as GRANTEE.
   3. In section C.3 of the Data Sheet, this project should be shown as YES under
      Problem Project at Any Time.




                            Vice President: James W.Adams
                          Country Director: Joachim Von Amsberg
                           Sector Manager: Sonia Hammam
                      Project Team Leader: Lixin Gu
                         ICR Team Leader: Lixin Gu
 
                                                    INDONESIA

        Emergency Rehabilitation of the Drainage and Flood Protection System
                               of Banda Aceh Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Grantee Performance ........................................................ 14
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors............... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 23
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 24
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 26
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 27
  Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 31
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 33
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 34
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                         EMERGENCY
                                                                         REHABILITATION
                                                                         OF THE DRAINAGE
Country:               Indonesia               Project Name:             AND FLOOD
                                                                         PROTECTION
                                                                         SYSTEM OF BANDA
                                                                         ACEH
Project ID:            P099185                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-56386
ICR Date:              08/31/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    ERL                     Grantee:
                                                                         INDONESIA
Original Total
                       USD 4.5M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 6.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 4.3M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Muslim Aid
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/27/2005   Effectiveness:             05/24/2006       05/24/2006
Appraisal:             11/15/2005   Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/06/2006   Mid-term Review:                            11/05/2007
                                    Closing:                   06/30/2008       12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:



                                               i
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Flood protection                                                        80                  80
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                   20                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  67                  67
Other social protection and risk management                             33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              James W. Adams                       Jeffrey S. Gutman
Country Director:            Joachim von Amsberg                  Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:              Sonia Hammam                         Christian Delvoie
Project Team Leader:         Lixin Gu                             Jerry A. Lebo
ICR Team Leader:             Lixin Gu
ICR Primary Author:          Heinrich K. Unger


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To quickly re-establish functionality of the storm water and marine flood protection
systems damaged by the tsunami and earthquake.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                 ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)         Values        Target Years
                Protection of population against design intensity storm water flooding and tidal
Indicator 1 :
                flooding.
                No reliable baseline data
                available at start-up.      100% protection                   100% protection of
                Project coverage area       of population                     population against
Value
                routinely flooded from      against design                    design intensity
quantitative or                                                 N/A
                storm water and tidal       intensity storm                   storm water and
Qualitative)
                incursion before the        water flooding and                tidal flooding
                network was destroyed by tidal flooding.                      achieved.
                the tsunami.
Date achieved 04/18/2006                    06/30/2008          12/31/2009    12/31/2009
Comments
                Design was based on 5-year intensity storm (a downward revision from the
(incl. %
                original 20-year storm was agreed between BRR and the municipal government.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Chronic tidal incursion in the project area is prevented within three months.
                No baseline data existed Absence of visual
                before installation of      evidence and                      No visual evidence
Value
                valves, but the flooding in reports of flooding               or reports of
quantitative or                                                 N/A
                the project area was        events associated                 flooding from tidal
Qualitative)
                chronic, making it          with design                       incursion.
                impossible to rebuild.      intensity events
Date achieved 04/18/2006                    07/05/2006          11/05/2006    11/05/2006
Comments
                Pilot valve program to stop tidal incursion was completed 6 months after
(incl. %
                effectiveness. There has been no evidence of tidal flooding since.
achievement)
                Staff responsible for maintenance of Banda Aceh drainage system trained and
Indicator 3 :
                capable of routine maintenance and small repairs.
                                            Staff regularly
                                            monitor pump
                                            operation, visually
                                            inspect valves,
                                            report any                        Operators regularly
                No maintenance              evidence of                       inspect, maintain
Value
                mechanism in place          flooding events,                  and repair pumps
quantitative or                                                 N/A
                before the project in the carry out                           and keep records of
Qualitative)
                project area                necessary                         pump operation and
                                            maintenance and                   maintenance.
                                            repairs and keep
                                            records on
                                            operations and
                                            maintenance.



                                               iii
Date achieved   04/18/2006                  06/30/2008         12/31/2009    12/31/2009
Comments        The KPI and the PRS in the PAD did not correspond, therefore this indicator
(incl. %        combines the fourth KPI from the PAD with the results indicator for objective 3
achievement)    from the PRS.
                From FY2009, the local government has an adequate O&M budget for
Indicator 4 :
                infrastructure and assets provided by the project, as per MoU agreement.
                                                                             For the fiscal year
                                                                             2009, the
                                                                             local government
                                                                             has
                                            Adequate O&M                     prepared an
Value
                                            budget for the                   adequate O&M
quantitative or Not applicable
                                            assets built under               budget for
Qualitative)
                                            the project                      infrastructure
                                                                             and assets provided
                                                                             by the
                                                                             project, as per MoU
                                                                             agreement.
Date achieved 04/18/2006                    06/30/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
                Supply and install one-way flow valves and undertake other minor civil works at
Indicator 1 :
                the point in the system where currently sea water incursion occurs at high tides.
                                                                             1. Pilot valve
                                                                             program
                                           Absence of visual                 completed in 6
                                           evidence and                      months.
Value           Tsunami affected area
                                           reports of flooding               2. Pilot valve
(quantitative   with flooding due to tidal
                                           events associated                 program
or Qualitative) incursion.
                                           with tidal                        stopped tidal
                                           incursion.                        incursion
                                                                             100% in the project
                                                                             area.
Date achieved 04/18/2006                   04/05/2007                        04/05/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Reconstruction of three pumping stations and associated structures, installation
Indicator 2 : of some 150 one-way flow valves, and rehabilitation of the drainage system in
                Banda Aceh drainage Zone 2.
Value           The pumping stations,      Drainage system N/A               1. Pump Stations:


                                               iv
(quantitative   flap gates and drainage will be finished the                 Kampung Jawa,
or Qualitative) system were totally     end of 2007 while                    Lampaseh Kota and
                damaged by the tsunami. pumping stations                     Punge Jurong.
                                        and valves will be                   2. Drainage Works:
                                        completed in June,                   Lampaseh Kota,
                                        2008.                                Gampong Pande
                                                                             and Punge Jurong.
                                                                             3. New drain
                                                                             construction 7,015
                                                                             m.
                                                                             4. Rehabilitation,
                                                                             repair & cleaning
                                                                             17,040m of drains
                                                                             5. Valves:
                                                                             31 installed.
Date achieved 04/18/2006                   06/30/2008           12/31/2009   12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Institutional strengthening and training for the city Public Works Department and
Indicator 3 :
                the capacity building and consulting services for the executing agency.
                                           All staff
                                           responsible for                     For the fiscal year
                                           drainage                            2009, the
                                           management will                     local government
                Capacity of local
                                           get training, pump                  has
                governments in
                                           operators get on-                   prepared an
Value           rebuilding and managing
                                           the-job training,                   adequate O&M
(quantitative   the Banda Aceh drainage                         N/A
                                           and the                             budget for
or Qualitative) system is pretty limited
                                           implementation                      infrastructure
                due to years of conflict
                                           support consultant                  and assets provided
                coupled with the disaster.
                                           successfully help                   by the
                                           the executing                       project, as per MoU
                                           agent for the                       agreement.
                                           project.
Date achieved 04/18/2006                   06/30/2008           12/31/2009     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     11/06/2007     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   1.26
  2     01/19/2008     Moderately Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory                         1.26
  3     04/21/2009     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   3.57
  4     12/16/2009     Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                          5.84


                                                v
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                            vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Tsunami and Earthquake Disaster. Aceh and Nias bore the brunt of a tsunami and
earthquake that struck Indonesia in December 2004 and March 2005, respectively. The scale
of the disaster was unprecedented, with an estimated 170,000 people killed or missing, over
500,000 persons displaced, and hundreds of communities washed away. By 2006, normal
social and economic life was slowly returning, although full reconstruction and the
restoration of livelihoods was expected to take years. The tsunami caused extensive and
severe damage to the sea defenses and flood protection infrastructure along the west coast
and in the greater Banda Aceh area. Many of these defenses as well as the river
embankments were totally destroyed and extensive areas of land were washed away. It was
estimated that in greater Banda Aceh the land surface subsided 0.4-0.6 meters.

Most of Banda Aceh City's drainage control systems (flap valves, tidal gates and pumping
stations) were destroyed or damaged by the tsunami, and primary and secondary drainage
channels were damaged and filled with debris. Even before the tsunami, major floods were a
regular occurrence in the city. These were usually a combination of high tidal flooding in
low-lying areas and/or storm water flooding as a result of heavy rainfall and over-topping of
river embankments. Major storm water flooding occurs on average every seven years in
Banda Aceh flooding over 50% of the city. Banda Aceh is the economic center of the
province and has an official population of around 300,000; unofficial estimates are around
25% higher.

Pre-Tsunami Drainage. Prior to the tsunami, Banda Aceh had incrementally established a
drainage and tidal protection system based on the City of Banda Aceh Technical Drainage
Plan (1998). The Plan proposed a series of pumping stations to discharge the principal drain
outfalls into the natural rivers flowing through the city, including the "floodway", as well as
tide gates on several of the smaller rivers. The Plan had been progressively implemented as
funding became available. At the time of the tsunami, the system included eight pumping
stations and over 90 one-way flow valves ("flap valves"), as well as a substantial network of
internal drainage channels. With the system in place, the urban area of Banda Aceh was
reasonably well protected from storm water and tidal flooding although periodic flooding
was still experienced due to poor maintenance and inadequate capacity of the system.

Government Roles and Responsibilities. The 1989 Drainage Plan remained the guiding
document for the city's vision to provide a safe and sustainable environment for the urban
population. The Plan calls for providing a system of internal drainage to keep the vulnerable
areas free from flooding for predetermined levels of rainfall events ("design storms"), as well
as providing an efficient and effective means of preventing tidal incursions, again for
predetermined "design' tidal levels. The city's Public Works Department (PU) is responsible
for implementing the 1989 Drainage Plan and is responsible for approving all designs for
improvements and extensions to the city drainage system. However, local drainage was under
the city's Water Resources Unit of the Department of Road Infrastructure and Water



                                              1
Resources. In addition, main drainage infrastructure, larger river embankments and the city's
main flood canal were the responsibility of the Provincial Department of Water Resources.

Agency for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction (BRR). Following the tsunami, the Agency for
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction (BRR) was set up to foster more coherence, leadership and
momentum in the overall reconstruction process, and coordinate dispersed or overlapping
responsibilities as was the case for drainage in Banda Aceh. The BRR's infrastructure
program unit was responsible for coordinating donor support, reviewing proposals, and
prioritizing projects in the affected areas. BRR's estimate for the costs for reconstruction of
water and sanitation systems throughout Aceh was US$345 million, but prior to appraisal
only US$175 million had been committed by NGOs (US$95million) and other donors
(US$80 million) to finance these investments. However, this did not account for the level of
investment needed to restore basic storm water drainage for both the local and main drainage
systems. There were no commitments to reconstruct the drainage system in Banda Aceh,
although the Japanese and Dutch Governments were in the process of identifying possible
projects.

Sector Issues. The main issues relevant to the proposed project in the water and sanitation
sectors, including drainage, were;

   a) Lack of Basic Mapping and Land Information. Ground levels had been reported to
      have changed in many areas. The implications for the provision of sewerage and local
      level drainage were formidable. Accurate base maps for reconstruction works were
      not available.
   b) Capacity of Local Governments and Water Utilities. Their capacity, following years
      of conflict, coupled with the disasters, was not sufficient to fully address the demands
      of the reconstruction efforts. Reconstruction activities thus needed to address capacity
      building, to ensure local governments could manage the facilities in the future.
   c) Need for Technical Assistance to Support Project Design, Review and Preparation
      Works. Project preparation work was beyond the scope of the BRR's mandate. Local
      governments and provincial agencies lacked the resources to handle the workload of
      the detailed technical analyses needed.

Given the emergency nature of the project, the above issues had been addressed through the
provision of technical assistance, which would support the implementing agency by carrying
out the needed land surveys in the project area, training local government staff in the
operation and maintenance of the system, and providing support for the preparation of
engineering designs, bidding documents and construction supervision.

Rationale for Implementing the Project Through Muslim Aid (MA) with Financing from the
Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra (MDTFANS). By the time of appraisal
nearly 11 months after the tsunami, the international response had moved beyond the
emergency phase to focus on reconstruction. However, significant work has yet to start on
repairing, reconstructing or replacing the major road infrastructure, providing logistics, sea
defense, river flood protection works and internal drainage systems which were necessary for
rapid reconstruction and economic recovery of the affected areas. In Banda Aceh, regular



                                              2
tidal flooding and the continuing possibility of major storm water flooding during the rainy
season, were slowing down reconstruction efforts. Neither the provincial nor city
governments currently had sufficient financial and human resources to undertake the project.
The BRR was coordinating projects, but did not have the needed implementation capacity for
emergency needs. The Government did not have a mechanism to transfer reconstruction
funds to NGOs who might have had the capacity to deliver on its behalf. Therefore, the
project was designed to support GOI's reconstruction program by providing MDTFANS
funding for project implementation by Muslim Aid1 (MA), an international NGO; MA would
act as implementing agency (IA) on behalf of the Government of Indonesia.

BRR requested the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to develop a study titled
Urgent Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Plan (URPP) for Banda Aceh City. The initial
report was completed in August 2005 and included proposals for the rehabilitation of all
flood control and drainage infrastructure to their pre-tsunami condition. In addition, the
report included plans for significantly upgrading the infrastructure. The project as proposed
by MA was fully consistent with the JICA proposal for overall rehabilitation of the drainage
and flood control infrastructure. BRR had proposed an "Immediate Action Program (IAP)" to
respond to pressing infrastructure issues. This program sought to address the key
infrastructure bottlenecks that already existed or would emerge in the next few months. BRR
planned to implement this program immediately through selected partner agencies, which
had been chosen because they were successfully carrying out similar activities and were seen
as being capable of implementing parts of the program. Since this was an emergency project,
there was no formal selection process for the NGO to be charged with implementing the
project, because this was an emergency project and a quick decision had to be made. MA was
already working successfully in Aceh on housing reconstruction, had established good
relationships with local communities and organizations, and moreover was a respected
Muslim NGO. BRR had proposed to partner with MA to respond to the drainage and
flooding problems of Banda Aceh. MA subsequently submitted a project concept to BRR
which was endorsed by BRR.

1.2 Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators

The original PDO was to quickly re-establish functionality of the storm water and marine
flood protection systems damaged by the tsunami and earthquake.

The original key performance indicators were:
   a) Protection against storm water flooding and tidal flooding, to be provided
       progressively over an 18 month period
   b) Tidal incursion in the project area prevented (within three months)
   c) Emergency works compatible within existing long-term plans; and
   d) Staff responsible for maintenance of Banda Aceh drainage system trained and capable
       of planning and executing routine maintenance


1
  Muslim Aid is a UK-based relief and development agency established in 1985 and working in over 70
countries in global reconstruction and relief efforts.



                                                    3
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

There were no formal changes or revisions to the original PDO and the key indicators.

Although the KPIs and indicators were not formally changed, some minor revisions were
agreed during supervision between the Bank, MA, BRR, and MDF to reflect changes to
technical designs, clarify existing indicators, or replace indicators approved during the
appraisal of the emergency operation but which were determined in the early stages of
implementation to be either unrealistic or inappropriate (such as the design 20-year flood
event which, in agreement between BRR and the local government, was reduced to a 5-year
return period)2, or not feasible to monitor in a project of this size (such as the detailed
socioeconomic data).

These revisions to the indicators were discussed during supervision missions, documented in
aide-memoire, and communicated to the MDF during its mid-term review of the Aceh
portfolio.

During implementation the physical outputs related to the flood and drainage system
infrastructure were tracked in the ISRs as intermediate indicators. Although these are indeed
useful intermediate indicators, they were not official project performance indicators. They
are also detailed in Annex 2: Outputs by Components.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The original main beneficiaries of the project are the people living in, and moving to, the area
covered by the drainage rehabilitation and flood protection works; this includes also the
about 1,200 small and medium-size businesses and small traders (over 500 stalls) located in
the project drainage area. Most of the area is low-lying and, without remediation it is subject
to periodic flooding especially during high tides. Reconstruction of about 3,000 single-family
houses, as well as small businesses, schools and other public buildings, would have not been
possible without the flood protection provided to existing and future residents of the drainage
area. A secondary beneficiary is the city government of Banda Aceh, and in particular the
public works department that is responsible for construction, operation and maintenance of
the drainage and flood protection system.

1.5 Original Components

The project had three components:
Component 1: Urgent Tidal Flood Protection Program (US$0.12 million). In order, to
address the most urgent problem of tidal flooding, the project would include a component to


2
  Based on a reassessment carried out by BRR and their consultants, the originally proposed 20-year design
storm would not be as cost-effective as a 5-year design storm because any damages due to a 20-year storm
would be incremental only since the drains and pump stations would handle the flows of a 5-year storm.



                                                      4
immediately supply and install one-way flow valves and undertake other minor civil works at
the point in the system where seawater incursion was occuring at high tides.

Component 2; Storm Water Flood Protection Program (US$4.08 million). The work would
involve reconstruction of approximately five pumping stations and associated civil and
hydraulic structures; installation of about 110 one-way flow valves to prevent tidal and storm
water incursion into the internal drainage system; repairing, renewing and enhancing
approximately 500m of river and drainage channel embankments; clearing approximately 5
km of secondary channels of debris; and other minor civil works associated with these
drainage improvements.

Component 3: Implementation Support and Capacity Building Program (US$0.3 million).
In order to promote the sustainable operation of the system, the project would include an
appropriate level of institutional strengthening and training for the City Public Works
Department (PU) which had primary responsibility for implementing the city's overall
drainage plan and for operating and maintaining key infrastructure. In addition, the project
would include capacity building and consulting services for the project implementing agency
in order to support project implementation.

Total original project costs were estimated at US$4.5 million to finance civil works,
consulting services, and goods and equipment.

1.6 Revised Components

During the early stages of implementation the emergency reconstruction approach was
modified by incorporating the "Build Back Better" approach adopted by GOI and BRR
which was supported by the World Bank. This was accomplished through (a) re-design and
construction of three (3) new pump stations with a substantially increased capacity, and (b)
re-design and reconstruction of large parts of the main drainage system, consisting mainly of
open drains, focusing exclusively, on priority Drainage Zone 2 of Banda Aceh.

1.7 Other significant changes

The revision of project components described above also required some additional funding
and some extension of time to complete the construction of this modified scope of works.
The project costs, and the commitment from MDTFANS, were increased from USD 4.5
million to USD 6.5 million, and the closing date was extended twice, first by 12 months, to
June 30, 2009, and then by another 6 months, to December 31, 2009. Time extensions and
additional funding were not only needed for the modified, "build back better" approach and
the much larger capacities of the pump stations and the larger network of drains, but also due
to cost overruns in a time of large cost increases (due to volume of construction contracts),
and contract implementation problems and delays. The modifications to the technical design
became necessary after more detailed mapping and survey data became available and it was
found that the actual needs for drainage capacity were considerably greater than anticipated
at appraisal. This was also confirmed by the consultants for the remainder of the city
drainage system outside of Zone 2. It had also been agreed that the installation of one-way



                                              5
valves would be restricted to Zone 2 only, thus considerably fewer such valves were
installed.

The project was conceived and appraised as an emergency operation, and the PAD clearly
stated that there was the need for an "adaptive management approach". Technical
assessments and studies were still being prepared when the project was appraised. For
example, the design storm was reassessed by BRR and reduced from 20 to 5 years (based on
cost effectiveness), and other technical aspects of this project were also modified in response
to an evolving situation. A detailed comparison of the project scope / outputs at appraisal and
actual achievements is shown in Annex 2: Outputs by Components. Although there was a 18-
month extension of the closing date and additional financing of USD 2.0 million, this was not
considered a restructuring of the project since the original PDO and components were
retained.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of background analysis.The project was prepared as an emergency operation
within a very short timeframe, (five months from concept review to Board approval). A very
large multi-disciplinary team worked on the preparation and appraisal, and two important
lessons from similar projects were taken into account, namely (a) the need for an adaptive
management approach because not all needed information was available at the time of
project design and appraisal, and (b) the need to minimize maintenance costs because past
and ongoing experience shows that public agencies never allocate adequate budgets for
system operations and maintenance. An example of how this affected project design is that
the rubber check valves that operate automatically and reliably were selected, thereby
reducing maintenance needs and operational expenditures.

Assessment of risks. A number of high and substantial risks had been identified during
preparation and appropriate mitigation measures had been proposed at appraisal and were
incorporated into project design. Subsequently, project implementation had taken mitigation
actions as designed, and the critical risks were managed reasonably well as follows:

   ·   Misuse of, and failure to account for, project funds was addressed through the
       outsourcing of accounting and reporting function to an independent company of
       accountants. No instances of corruption and no misuse of funds were found or
       reported.
   ·   The risk of ineffective audit functions was successfully managed by the employment
       of good professional practices.
   ·   Political involvement in the funds flow process was prevented through the execution
       and implementation of the project by MA, an international NGO; this avoided the use
       of the government budget system.
   ·   The risk posed by the inadequate capacity of MA, the actual executing and
       implementing agency, was addressed through the use of international consultants who
       provided the required capacity although there were problems with the initail



                                              6
       consultants' performance. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established by
       MA with technical, procurement, financial management, and administrative staff.
   ·   The low capacity of the public works department (PWD) of the City of Banda Aceh
       was addressed through an institutional strengthening and training component to
       promote sustainable management, operation and maintenance by the City's PWD.
       The risk of low capacity was minimized by not involving the PWD directly in the
       project implementation execution which was handled by MA.
   ·   There were a number of additional risks related to capacity, such as staffing,
       accounting, reporting and information systems, which were identified and appropriate
       mitigation measures included in project design.

Assessment of project design. In addition to the lessons learned and their incorporation into
the project design as described above, the design benefited from the City of Banda Aceh's
own Drainage Plan developed prior to the tsunami as well as two post-tsunami assessments
carried out by BRR and JICA. This provided ample input to develop a sound technical
design. The revision to the design during implementation responded to new priorities and
analysis of the situation on the ground, but does not in itself reflect poor preparation or initial
design. The design also struck an appropriate balance between technical, cost, and
sustainability considerations. Besides the technical aspects, the implementation arrangements
themselves were innovative and proactive, such the use of MA as the implementing agency,
incorporation of consultants to address capacity shortcomings.

Government commitment and stakeholder involvement and participation. The City
government, led by the very proactive mayor, and the PWD in particular as the future
operator of the system, participated fully in the decisions dealing with system design, peak
flows, technical issues, and technical aspects of equipment selection, and also the conception
of the trash management pilot program. Also, the project provided operational training for
city staff. The BRR which represented the central government's primary institutional
presence in the overall Aceh reconstruction program was also actively involved, especially in
the early stages of project implementation.

2.2 Implementation

Due to its emergency nature, the implementation of this project used a unique and
unconventional approach: as described above, BRR on behalf of GOI, and with agreement of
the MDTFANS and the Bank, asked MA, an international NGO with an already established
office in Aceh Province to implement the project. In fact, MA was not only the implementing
agency but, jointly with BRR (on behalf of GOI), was also the "Recipient" (of the grant
funds). This meant that the project funds were disbursed directly to MA without reaching a
government agency, and MA made all payments to contractors, consultants and suppliers.
BRR was only marginally involved at the concept and early design stage, and as the chair of
the steering committee that was set up in accordance with the Grant Agreement. That
committee was more active in the start-up phase of the project, and subsequently met at
critical stages during the later stages of the implementation.




                                                7
PWD Banda Aceh, as the future owner and operator of the system, was involved in the
design review and throughout the implementation. In the last year, MA arranged training
courses and a study tour for the PU staff that would take over the facilities. City staff in
charge of solid waste management was also intensely involved in the design of the trash
management pilot program which was intended to prevent garbage from clogging the
rehabilitated drainage channels and flap valves.

The progress of implementation was initially very slow, partially because of the need for
more survey and investigations, and also due to performance problems with the original
consultants and some of the civil works contractors. At the mid-term review (MTR) in
October-November 2007 the project was rated Unsatisfactory (U) for implementation
progress (IP) but soon after that critical point, and with much better performing design and
supervision consultants engaged by MA, implementation accelerated substantially. However,
two extensions of the closing date were needed, and applied for by MA, and agreed to by the
Bank, firstly by one year from June 30, 2008 to June 30, 2009, and then by six months to
December 31, 2009. The MTR also raised some "problem flags" for issues with social
safeguards, procurement and project management. MA took decisive action and engaged (a)
a full-time project manager with solid reconstruction experience in Aceh, (b) competent new
consultants for design review and construction supervision, and (c) an independent
construction engineer with responsibility for quality control and reporting. These measures
greatly helped to deal with the various problems identified during the MTR, and all
subsequent supervision missions rated the project satisfactory (S).

Also during the MTR, an important change to the project was endorsed, namely that this
project should focus on Drainage Zone 2; this mainly meant that this project would install the
one-valves in Drainage Zone 2 only. This modification was made possible because in
September 2007, the Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) had signed an MOU with
BRR to provide funding for drainage rehabilitation in Zones 3 to 7, and the Japan Bank for
International Cooperation (JBIC) was already funding the implementation of drainage works
in Zone 1. This meant that, through effective donor coordinaation by BRR, all of Banda
Aceh's drainage was being rehabilitated or reconstructed, respectively.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E system took a very long time to design, mainly due to the lack of experience of
MA with such a system. Initially, the system as designed by MA was too large and complex
for practical monitoring. Firstly, the framwework needed to be harmonized with the project
inidicators, and then was simplified to several key indicators that would show the measurble
impacts of the project while focusing on measuring both, outputs and outcomes. There was
also a problem with the collection of socioeconomic baseline data to allowpre- and post-
project comparisons.As project completion approached, a suitable M&E framework had
evolved, thanks partially to an ongoing dialogue between MA and Bank staff.




                                              8
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement was handled by a procurement committee set up by MA; members included a
BRR representative and also the consultants who provided technical expertise and performed
the detailed bid evaluations. Initially, there were not only delays with implementing the
procurement plan ­ partly due to waiting for the new consultants to review and re-do the
design ­ but two ICB contracts had to be re-bid because of inadequately prepared bidding
documents and problems with the bid evaluation. Further to these problems, with consistent
Bank support and advice (insisting on prior review of all contracts), MA strengthened its
capacity for managing the procurement process properly; the newly engaged design and
supervision consultants contributed to this effort. Subsequently, the regular procurement
reviews during supervision missions found that, generally, procurement was well organized
and the documentation, including bid and contract documents, was in order.

Financial management started out with problems because MA had used the Special Account
for making ineligible expenditures, likely due to inexperience. Also, the internal financial
controls were considered to be insufficient. These matters were resolved quickly, but the
initial rating for financial management was Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU). Subsequently,
MA used a competent financial management agent (FMA) for internal audits who visited the
project quarterly; this arrangement worked very well and there were no more serious issues.
There were other minor issues, such as the temporarily understaffed FM section of MA, but
this and other problems were addressed by MA and rectified. The external audits were done
on schedule by qualified audit firms, and with clean reports.

Environmental safeguard aspects were managed very well. An initial environmental
examination (IEE) was done well ahead of construction by the design consultants; it
classified the project as EA category B. The IEE also included an outline EMP that set out all
necessary mitigation and monitoring activities to minimize adverse impacts. Subsequently,
MA with the consultants, organized and facilitated two community consultation meetings
that were well attended. The people raised good issues, such as employment of local labor,
disruption of traffic and site safety issues for residents, potential damage to houses and yards,
and the need for local garbage collection. MA made sure that these issues were taken into
consideration by the contractors: each major construction contract started off with a meeting
with the specific affected local community, and they were given the contact numbers of the
contractor and the MA project manager so they could report any problems. This system
worked very well, and any problems were usually quickly addressed.

MA and supervision consultants held site safety seminars for the contractors, and also made
sure that the contractors followed simple occupational health and safety procedures for the
workers on site, such as protective gear, barricades, and warning signs. Several adjacent
properties suffered minor damage during excavation, but all problems were taken care of by
the contractors responsible. The pump stations were also "greened" by planting of trees,
shrubs and grass. Otherwise, there were no serious environmental issues, and in fact, the
local garbage collection program and the prevention of flooding, contributed significantly to
environmental improvements in the area.




                                               9
Social safeguard aspects were addressed through some land acquisition of small parcels
needed for the pump station sites; there was no involuntary resettlement involved. The land
acquisition was handled by the City of Banda Aceh in accordance with Bank policy but it
took a long time, and there were some minor problems, mostly because neither the City nor
MA had much experience with land acquisition and the requirements to comply with OP
4.12. Bank supervision staff assisted and supported the effort. In fact, MA reported in their
completion report that one landowner, affected by the land acquisition for one of the pump
station sites, submitted his objection to the local court in Banda Aceh after the completion of
the land purchase. The matter was still being processed. The city government and MA have
cooperated and attended court as needed; they are optimistic that there will be a positive
outcome using legal process. Since the matter is with the court under due legal process it is
not considered to be an outstanding land issue.

The only major social issue arose later in the project when the City decided to relocate about
800 small traders and their stalls away from a temporary street location to which they hade
been moved to after the tsunami. That street was in Zone 2 and the covered drains had been
included in the scope of rehabilitation works. The Bank had insisted that the traders not be
moved without fully adequate and agreed arrangements because of the potential disruption to
their livelihood but the City moved them anyway because they had planned all along to do
so. Work and dibursements for the contract concerned were suspended while MA, working
the Mayor and municipal staff, tried to mitigate the impacts of the move on the traders.
Conditions at the new, also temporary location, were improved, and the traders were assured
of getting priority for moving into the new market that is still under construction (the original
market had been destroyed by the tsunami. As a result of these actions by the city
government, the majority of the traders, including their association's president, are now
reasonably satisfied with their new temporary location.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Arrangements for a smooth transition started early by involving the City of Banda Aceh, and
especially the PWD staff responsible for drainage, in all design and construction decisions;
they were also involved in the procurement process, thus ensuring that they were not only
familiar with the new system features, but also developed a sense of ownership. During the
last year of project implementation the training of operators and supervisors was initiated; it
also included a study tour to Java so the trainees could observe a well-maintained system in
operation in Indonesia. Operational routines and manuals were prepared by the consultants,
and on-site training was done, particularly for the pump stations with the electro-mechanical
equipment and also for the rubber duckbill valves.

Another important initiative to ensure the sustained functioning of the drainage system, was
the "trash management program" that was started as a pilot program but scaled up quickly by
the city because of its early success. The call for this program did not only come from the
engineers, but the community consultations also showed that the local people knew that such
a program was essential. This augurs well for the future sustainability of the system, i.e. the
fact that the local residents are fully aware of the importance of reliable and affordable solid
waste collection right in the neighborhoods. The beneficiary communities were consulted



                                               10
during the design of the system and also when setting the rates; some local employement was
also generated.

By the project closing date, in accordance with the MOU between MA and the City of Banda
Aceh, signed in November 2008, the following key actions were achieved:
   · all assets from the proceeds of the Grant, such drains and pump stations, were
       transferred by MA to the city upon their completion,
   · the City also assumed responsibility for operation and maintenance, including
       assignment of O & M staff, and
   · the City provided adequate O &M budgets.

The political will of the city government, led by the very active and committed mayor, will
be the most important factor required to ensure the sustainability of the system. The early
signs are promising, evidenced by the ongoing interest and involvement of the city
government's leadership and staff.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives and design were highly relevant to the country priorities in post-
tsunami 2005 when the project was prepared and appraised. Indonesia was attempting to
rebuild Aceh, and especially the strategic provincial capital of Banda Aceh as quickly as
possible while at the same time ensuring high standards of construction quality. Moreover, it
was important to protect an already traumatized (by the tsunami) population from frequent
flooding. The former residents of the low-lying alluvial zone in the northern part of Banda
Aceh could not have been rebuilt as quickly and efficiently without protection from flooding.
Although conceived as an emergency operation, the project design made sure to fit within the
existing overall drainage masterplan for Banda Aceh.

Implermentation by an international NGO was also very relevant because government
agencies were totally overwhelmed with reconstruction works; they lacked sufficient
capacity to undertake all the projects that were needed and for which donor funding was
available. It is doubtfukl whether this flood protection project would have been implemented
as quickly and efficiently without the involvement of MA.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Although not completed as quickly as envisaged, the functionality of the stormwater and tidal
flood protection systems that were damaged or destroyed by the tsunami has been achieved.
The pilot valve program stopped 100% of tidal incursions within six months of the start of
implementation. Partial protection against stormwater flooding was achieved within 15
months through cleaning and repairing the existing system, through full protection against
the 5-year design storm flows was only reached in 2009 once the new pump stations were in
operation. The emergency works were indeed comaptible with the existing, and subsequently
modified, long term plans for the Banda Aceh drainage system. And lastly, the staff


                                             11
responsible for the maintenance and operation of the drainage system has been thoroughly
trained and have proven to be fully capable of planning and executing routine maintenance
works. In support of the above objectives, an additional output is a well-run and popular
"trash managememt program", operated by the municipal agencies for the collection of
garbage from residential areas along narrow lanes; this program, funded by fees, assists
greatly to keep garbage from clogging drains, valves and pump stations. All of the above
improve environmental health conditions in middle and low income areas of Banda Aceh.

3.3 Efficiency

No economic or financial analysis was done at appraisal or after project completion, but a
simple analysis showed that the savings in house construction costs for about 3,000 new
buildings were significant; these savings were due to the need for less fill and lower building
foundations. The flooded area had been a vital part of Banda Aceh, and there was little
question that its restoration and protection were both politcally and economically justified.
Additional benefits beyond the protection of physical assets alone, include the the restoration
of services, commercial enterprises, community and social capital, and other socioeconomic
activities in the fomer at-risk zone, with now greatly reduced vulnerability to natural
disasters. The supply and construction contracts were awarded through competitive tendering
(some internationall) to ensure the lowest available costs while ensuring the quality of the
works and timely completion.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
The overall outcome is rated satisfactory because the project achieved its objectives in full in
an emergency situation. Provision of zones for housing reconstruction free from flooding was
a high priority for the people of Aceh and their government. The quality of the
implementation was good, and there was substantive capacity-building involved, which not
only benefitted the local government but also the international NGO that was the Grant
recipient and implementing agency. Community involvement and participation was high
throughout the design and construction stages, and is continuing in the operation phase.
Innovative approaches were used to respond to community concerns and to ensure
sustainability. The delays and the need for additional funds from the donors do not
significantly detract from the success of this project because they can be explained by the
emergency nature of the project: it was impossible at the time of appraisal to properly
estimate the necessary time and funding needed for implementation. The flexibility to make
technical modifications in view of a changed situation is a positive factor.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
In terms of social development the project broke new ground with the level of community
consultation and participation. To a great extent this is likely due to the fact that MA, the
implementing agency, is an NGO that is experienced and comfortable with working closely
with communities. Not only were many community meetings held, but also a number of



                                              12
important community agreements were signed pertaining to: (a) voluntary land donations for
drains, (b) participation in the pilot trash management program, and (c) payment and
collection of tariffs for residential garbage collection. MA's consultants also contributed to
the successful community engagement which is expected to build a more responsive and
responsible citizenry and also promote better governance.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The impacts on the longer term capacity of the City of Banda Aceh municipal staff
responsible for drainage operation and maintenance, and for solid waste management are
expected to be significant. These staff not only developed ownership of the rehabilitated and
improved systems, but they also underwent intensive training in O&M of the system,
including study tours to well-run systems elesewhere in Indonesia. This capacity
development will likely improve O&M not only for the areas directly served by the project,
but also for city-wide drainage and solid waste management operations.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Protection of the area from frequent flooding and the introduction of regular solid waste
collection services has significant, albeit non-quantifiable, health benefits, especially because
storm drainage flows in Indonesia often carry untreated wastewater and septic tank effluents.
By draining these flows quickly and efficiently, and by preventing most solid waste from
accumulating in drains, the project has definitely contributed to improved health conditions
in the affected areas.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A stakeholder workshop was orgaanized by MA in February 2010 in Banda Aceh, with the
participation of the Mayor of Banda Aceh, municipal drainage and solid waste management
managers, and sub-district heads. The feedback from the workshop attendees was mostly
very positive; they expressed gratitude to MA, the Bank and the donors. Some raised minor
operational issues, and the Mayor expressed some dissatisfaction with the Bank's
procurement procedures and the slow decisions.A detailed summary of the stakeholder
meeting is in Annex 6 of this ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial
There are two main positive factors in assessing the risk to development outcomes: (a) strong
ownership and stakeholder support by the municipal agencies and the communities alike, and
(b) the incentives of the very obvious environmental benefits of having the drainage and solid
waste systems well maintained and operated. However, there are three negative factors: (a)
pump stations and also the rubber valves somewhat technically demanding in terms of O&M,
(b) institutional support by all three levels of government is at best uncertain, and (c) the
availability of adequate and reliable O&M budgets is not sure. These three negative factors
are informed by a well-known pattern of poor performance by Indonesian municipal
governments, especially as far as systems maintenance and operations are concerned,




                                               13
including the funding. In view of the preponderance of the negative factors, the overall risk
to development outcome is assessed as substantial.

5. Assessment of Bank and Grantee Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
Although the project was prepared in a very short time, it was conceived for the priority
needs of the post-disaster situation in Banda Aceh in 2005. The PDO were modest and clear,
and allowed sufficient flexibility to modify the technical design of the project as the situation
in Banda Aceh evolved. Environmental and social aspects were well covered, the former by a
good initial environmental assessment and EMP, and the latter by the reliance on a
resettlement policy framework adopted by BRR for the Infrastructure Financing Facility
(IRFF) that was approved in parallel with this project.

Lastly, the decision to entrust an NGO with being the grant recipient and the implementing
agency was risky but proved to be correct and likely contributed significantly to the project's
success. Implementation arrangements by MA were structured in such a way as to facilitate
sufficient involvement of government agencies, especially the city government. In view of
the many positive aspects, quality at entry is rated as satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Bank supervision met the four key criteria for good quality:
   i.  There was a consistent focus on the PDO which was not changed but rather the
       project scope was modified to still meet the PDO.
  ii.  Safeguard aspects were consistently supervised which resulted in positive
       environmental impacts and only minor problems (that were resolved) as far as land
       acquisition and protecting livelihoods was concerned. Also, financial management
       that started out with minor problems was improved through proactive supervision and
       support by a strong Bank team.
 iii. In addition to the TTL's availability in the project city, full supervision teams staffed
       with experienced and highly qualified specialists visited the project twice a year and
       conducted detailed site visits and intensive dialogues with MA, government agencies
       and communties.
 iv.   MA, supported by their consultants, made early arrangements for an effective
       transition, including an MOU with the City of Banda Aceh, and comprehensive
       training of O&M staff.

There were a few minor shortcomings in the Bank's identification of opportunities and
resolution of threats, and therefore the Bank's supervision performance is rated as
satisfactory.




                                               14
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank's response to the disaster was quick and appropriate: a flexible project design,
addressing immediate needs was combined with an innovative approach to the
implementation arrangements. Bank supervision worked diligently and successfully to make
this approach work. Therefore, the overall performance of the Bank was assessed as
satifactory.

5.2 Grantee Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Goverment of Indonesia, as represented by BRR, was the co-recipient of the grant funds
for this project. BRR made the difficult but - as it turned out - correct decision to appoint an
NGO as the other co-recipient of the grant funds and as the implementing agency. It fully
supported MA during implementation without delaying or obstructing MA's work. Overall,
government involvement was minor in this project due to its unique funding and
implementation arrangements. When BRR folded in 2009, a smooth transition to Bappenas,
as the co-recipient, was arranged. There were only a few minor shortcomings in government
performance, and therefore it is rated as satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
MA as the implememting agency performed quite well when assessed against the applicable
main criteria:
   i. MA was fully committed to the PDO and worked to modify the project scope to still
       achieve the original objectives.
  ii.  There was full involvement of both, the benefiting communities and the city agencies
       concerned; the former, through a number of community consultation meetings, and
       the latter through their participation in design and construction decisions.
 iii. Minor problems arose, sometimes identified by the Bank supervision, and MA made
       efforts to resolve them, at times mobilizing their own additional resources to deal
       with issues.
 iv.   Financial management, procurement and safeguard aspects were taken care of, and
       although there were a number of minor problems, they were dealt with.
  v.   MA was slow in designing an adequate M&E system, but in the end succeeded.
 vi. Lastly, MA was good at making effctive transition arrangements; they started early
       with an MOU and conducted appropriate training, and are still supporting the City of
       Banda Aceh, even after the project closing date.

However, there were some problems in the earlier stages of the project which took some time
to be addressed, and therefore the IA performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Grantee Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




                                              15
In view of a sub-ratings above, the overall Grantee performance is rated moderately
satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

·   In an emergency situation, an international NGO can successfully execute, as the grant
    recipient, and implement a medium-size, but technically challenging project. It also
    became clear that in such a case, the NGO needs to have an outstanding local manager, a
    highly qualified project manager, and the NGO must be fully supported - also financially
    - by an experienced head office.
·   In an emergency situation, project execution, and especially implementation, can be done
    without the direct involvement of any government agency in order to relieve them from
    being overburdened with too many reconstruction tasks. A competent, experienced and
    well supported NGO can implement a project successfully while still fully involving the
    the government agency concerned to make sure they develop ownership and operate and
    maintain the infrastructure after project completion.
·   A successful outcome is more likely if good support is available for the NGO from
    competent international consultants who provide technical expertise and support with
    capacity development of the NGO's staff.
·   Regular, i.e. twice yearly, and intensive supervision by a full Bank team comprising all
    necessary specialities can contribute significantly to a successful outcome. Additionally,
    the presence of the TTL in the project city facilitated quick responses and instant support
    when needed.
·   Ample supervision resources (supplemented from the trust fund) do make a difference,
    and can help to turn a project-at-risk around and then keep it on track.
·   Emergency project design may need revision during implementation when all factors are
    known and more information is available. Flexibility of government, implementing
    agency and the Bank is essential to agree on the necessary modifications to the project
    scope.
·   The initial success of the pilot trash management program shows that if an extra program
    or initiative is needed - but had not been included in the original project design and
    budget - it should be added in without hesitation, especially if it also responds directly to
    the priority concerns of the local population, as expressed during the community
    consultation meetings.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
MA had raised the problem of slow, and sometimes supposedly delayed, procurement
decisions by the Bank in the implementation completion report. The same issue was also
raised in the post-completion workshop discussion with the Mayor and some city staff.

This is a recurring complaint, but records suggest that decisions were made within reasonable
time frames. Occasionally there were some delays, mostly because of the large number of
procurement decisions being required for the different emergency operations in Aceh and
North Sumatra, especially during the early years of reconstruction. The quality of the



                                               16
documentation contributed to the challenges faced by the procurement review staff. Although
there were Bank staff stationed in Banda Aceh, most procurement review and decisions were
still made in a centralized manner by the World Bank Office in Jakarta which was 2,000 km
away.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
MDF provided detailed comments which were considered and incorporated within the scope
of the final report.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                            17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                  Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                       Percentage of
          Components            Estimate (USD    Estimate (USD
                                                                        Appraisal
                                   millions)        millions)
Component 1: Urgent tidal flood
protection program                      0.12             0.08               67

Component 2: Storm water flood
                                       4.08              5.81              142
protection program
Component 3: Implementation
support and capacity building          0.30              0.54              180
program


           Total Baseline Cost         4.50              6.43              143
Physical Contingencies
                                       0.00              0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                       0.00              0.00              0.00
            Total Project Costs        4.50              6.43              143
Project Preparation Costs              0.00              0.00               .00
                                       0.00              0.00               .00
    Total Financing Required           4.50              6.43              143




(b) Financing
                                                Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                                        Percentage
                                    Type of     Estimate    Estimate
         Source of Funds                                                    of
                                  Cofinancing    (USD        (USD
                                                                        Appraisal
                                                millions)   millions)
Trust Funds                                       0.00        0.00
Muslim Aid                                        0.00        0.16         N/A
Indonesia - Free-standing Trust
                                                  4.50          6.27             139
Fund Program
Total                                             4.50          6.43             143




                                         18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Since the project design was modified in the course of implementation a simple comparative
matrix is presented below to show what changed and why.

                                 At Appraisal /     Completed           Comments
                                 PAD                Project
Design Storm                     20 years           5 years             Agreed by BRR for
                                                                        cost effectiveness
COMPONENT 1

One-way flow rubber valves       11                 4                   Problems with spec's
Urgent program                                                          of some valves
One-way flow rubber valves       110                34                  Decision to install in
City-wide program                                                       Zone 2 only
COMPONENT 2

Pump stations                    5                  3                   Consolidation of
                                                                        pump stations within
                                                                        Zone 2
Pumping capacity                 1.4 cu.m/s         4.0 cu.m/s          Less retention
                                                                        capacity available
                                                                        post-disaster
New secondary drains             5,000 m            7,000 m             Surveys identified
                                                                        greater needs
Drain rehabilitation             17,000 m           N/A                       ditto
(repairs and cleaning)


Component 1

Urgent Tidal Flood Protection Program

Eleven rubber check valves were installed in April 2006, to replace damaged sluice gates and
flap valves; however, they proved to be ineffective. Although they prevented backflow from
the tidal/flood water in the rivers, they did not allow flow through the rubber check valves
from the drainage system. After a visit from the rubber check valve supplier, four re-designed
rubber check valves were installed. MA requested the consultant to produce a report on the
performance of the rubber check valves. The report confirmed that the four re-designed
rubber check valves were working well.

The area along the River Doy, near the tidal gates, and the area around the Kampong
Lampaseh pump station had been destroyed by the tsunami in Kuta Raja. According to
surveys conducted in the local communities, before the introduction of the new valves these
areas were flooded to a maximum depth of about 50 cm about three times each year; this
happened generally after two continuous days of rain. During periods of inundation, local


                                              19
roads became impassable to motorcycles for 2 or 3 days. However, the same communities
reported no flooding in this area in the 32 months since the satisfactory installation and
subsequent operation of the installed valves.

Following this demonstration pilot installation of rubber duckbill valves in 2006, some
residents in the Kampong Lampaseh area were interviewed: they reported that living
conditions were better since the valves had been installed. Some minor flooding still occurred
during the rainy season ­ mainly in September, but only for a few hours ­ but roads were not
affected. They noted that the valves closed automatically and prevented tidal incursions of
the river from entering the drainage system. On the basis of this successful evaluation, an
additional 34 units of duckbill rubber valves in various diameters were procured and
installed. Based on periodic monitoring during the 7 months after installation, all the units
observed functioned satisfactorily. The valves have been secured against theft or damage by
steel cages, and trash screens were installed upstream of all duckbill valves to prevent
clogging and malfunctioning.

Component 2

Storm Water Flood Protection Program

Based on the first design consultant's preparation work, and following a thorough design
review3, five major contracts were tendered for this component. During implementation, the
scope of the valve replacement sub-component was increased to cover all "at risk" locations.
The number of rubber check valves required was identified as approximately 150. After a
design review of drainage catchments in other drainage areas by the consultants, it was
agreed that MA should re-focus the project on Drainage Zone 2 only therefore, for this
project, full system design was done for Drainage Zone 2, using maximum flows in the
drainage system (the design standards for the entire drainage network had been set by the
BRR and the local government for a 5-year storm event).

By the end of the project implementation period in December 2009, five major and three
small contract packages were completed successfully:

    ·    Pumping stations (3) civil works, including a reservoir each (for storing peak storm
         flows) with capacities of 1.0 and 2.0 cu.m/sec, respectively.
    ·    Supply and installation of pumps, hoists and diesel-powered generators for 3 pumping
         stations.
    ·    Rehabilitation and reconstruction of drains in Zone 24.
3
  The design review also involved a re-survey of the drainage area because due to differential subsidence the
original elevations had changed in many locations.

4
 One earlier contract for the rehabilitation of the drainage system was terminated because of unacceptable
delays, but these works were completed under the wider scope of a new contract package.




                                                      20
       - Lampaseh Kota: 3,858 m of new drains and 7,900 m cleaned and repaired
       - Gampong Pande: 1,344 m of new drains and 1,334 m cleaned and repaired
       - Punge Jurong: 1,813 m of new drains and 2,405 m cleaned and repaired
       - Rehabilitation and repair of 5,401 m of existing drains & 686 m box culverts
   ·   Procurement of 40 rubber check valves, also called "duckbill valves" (some to be
       kept as spares).
   ·   Installation of 34 rubber check valves and associated civil works.
   ·   Three packages for safety equipment and miscellaneous works.

The cost increases of this component were mainly due to (i) higher design flows which
required substantially increased pump capacities, and (ii) land acquisition problems for the
pumping stations sites which necessitated changes to the design of the civil works.

In addition to the physical works described above, Component 2 also included the services of
international consultants for management, design and construction supervision. The contract
of the original design consultants was not extended in 2007, and new consultants were
engaged. They carried out a full design review, prepared bid documents, did the bid
evaluations and contract awards, performed contract management and supervision services,
commissioned and handed over the completed facilities, and also did some capacity building.

Component 3

Implementation Support and Capacity Building Program

This component included the following tasks: (i) institutional strengthening and training for
the city's public works department; (ii) capacity building and consulting services for MA, the
executing agency, to support project implementation, and (iii) a pilot trash management
program that was later expanded into a city-wide initiative.

For task (i) above, an institutional strengthening program was set up to train pump operators
and local government (City of Banda Aceh) officials of the various institutions involved in
the operation and maintenance of the facilities provided by the project. In addition, a
commitment was made by the City Government to take over the operation and maintenance
responsibilities of the facilities, including the appointment of pump operators and other
technical staff, and to allocate necessary funds.

The task (ii) above, capacity building and consulting services for MA, the executing agency
(to support project implementation), was completed successfully by the international
consultant. This task included the annual audits of MA books, and financial management
system services over a period of two years. Also, training was delivered, and study tours to
comparable areas in Jakarta and Tangerang were organized for both staff and key officials of
Banda Aceh's public works department to learn more about effective operations and
maintenance of large drainage systems.

The third task, a pilot trash-management program focused on raising awareness on handling
trash, waste separation and opportunities like composting, was started in January 2009 in


                                             21
four selected communities in Drainage Zone 2. Some transport vehicles and equipment have
been purchased to improve trash collection, for which additional budgeting has been
allocated. The main purpose of this program was to keep more solid waste out of the city
drains by collecting it house-to-house, even in the lower income neighborhoods without full
road access. Despite some problems with the collection equipment (3-wheel motorcycles
with a trash container) the program was such a success that it was proposed to be expanded
into a city-wide initiative.




                                            22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic and financial analysis at the time of appraisal had assumed that the overall
benefit of the project would be improved health and security from the effects of tidal and
storm water flooding, and that this would enable a safer habitable environment for the vast
housing reconstruction program required in Banda Aceh by providing relief from flooding
for the people returning to their land.

This expectation has been completely met because Drainage Zone 2 is now safe from tidal
and storm water flooding. The predicted health benefits are definitely accruing to the area's
population because there is no more flooding overflowing drains, polluted with wastewater
from houses and defective septic tanks. Although there are no baseline data and no current
health statistics available, the concomitant lowered incidence of disease and lowered health
costs are certain.

Also as predicted in the appraisal analysis, people have fully recognized that conditions in
Drainage Zone 2 are now safe and habitable; this is demonstrated by the construction of
some 3,000 new houses (only about 200 intact houses had been left in Zone 2 immediately
after the tsunami struck). It is also clear that, as estimated at appraisal, new house
construction costs - an average of about US$ 6,000 equivalent - were lowered by about 20
percent due to saving the costs for extra fill (to raise the floor level) and for additional
protection to the house foundations. For the about 3,000 newly built houses, the total savings
in construction costs are estimated at US$ 3.6 million.

Additionally, 1,200 small business and small traders (more than 500 stalls) benefited from
flood protection: their shops, stalls, wares, and stores are safe from frequent flooding, and
their business activities would not be disrupted by floods, rendering the CBD inaccessible.

However, the assumption of the number - in the PAD - of up to 100,000 persons potentially
benefiting from the project was based on the initial assumption that the project would benefit
the entire city. The economic analysis at the time of appraisal assumed that a much wider
area - outside Drainage Zone 2 - would directly benefit from this project. Although there are
clearly wider benefits to the Zone 2 drainage improvements, they would be difficult to
attribute.




                                             23
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
             Names                        Title                 Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Jerry Lebo               Task Team Leader                      EASTR Team Leader
Anirudda Dasgupta        Lead Urban Planner                    EASUR Planning & Policy
                         Municipal infrastructure Specialist
Geoffrey Read                                                  EASUR Technical
                         (Consultant)
Agnes Albert-Loth        Senior Finance Officer                EAPCO Financial
                                                                     Financial
Iraj Talai                 Manager, Financial Management       EAPCO
                                                                     Management
Imad Saleh                 Lead Procurement Specialist         EAPCO Procurement
Firman Dharmawan           Procurement Specialist              EAPCO Procurement
Bisma Husen                Procurement Specialist              EAPCO Procurement
Indira Dharmapatni         Senior Operations Officer           EASUR Safeguard
Melinda Good               Sr. Counsel                         LEGEA Legal
                           Environmental Specialist
Alfred Picardi                                                 EASUR Environment
                           (Consultant)
Andre Bald                 Senior Infrastructure Specialist    EASUR Infrastructure
                           Infrastructure Specialist
Alun Phillips                                                  EASTR Technical
                           (Consultant)
                           Urban Drainage Specialist
John Smithson                                                  EASUR Technical
                           (Consultant)
Raja Iyer                  Quality Control Reviewer            EASUR Quality Control
Hatim Hajj                 Reviewer                            EASTR Peer Review

Supervision/ICR
Lixin Gu                   Sr. Infrastructure Specialist (TTL) EASIN Team Leader
Indira Dharmapatni         Senior Operations Officer           EASIS Social Safeguards
Andre A. Bald              Senior Infrastructure Specialist    EASVS Infrastructure
William Hardi              Consultant                          EAPCO Procurement
Imad Saleh                 Lead Procurement Specialist         EAPPR Procurement
Agus Sjamsudin             Operations Officer                  EASIS Operation
                           Urban Drainage Specialist
John Smithson                                                  EASIN Technical
                           (Consultant)
                           Sr Financial Management                   Financial
Unggul Suprayitno                                              EAPFM
                           Specialist                                Management
Andry Utama Thamrin        Finance Analyst                    CTRDM Disbursement
                           Environment Specialist
Heinz Unger                                                    EASIS Environment
                           (Consultant)




                                           24
(b) Staff Time and Cost                                                                   5
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        6  USD Thousands (including
                                            No. of staff weeks      travel and consultant
                                                                            costs)
Lending
     FY06                                                                        27.54
     FY07                                                                         0.07

                                Total:                                           27.61
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                                            5.69

                                Total:                                            5.69




Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

5
    A large portion of preparation and supervision costs were financed from the MDTFANS
6
    The numbers of staffweeks are not available from the TRS


                                                 25
No beneficiary survey was done.




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results



                                       26
1. On February 17, 2010, a small stakeholder workshop was held in Banda Aceh with the
  following participants:

    -   Mayor of City of Banda Aceh
    -   Head of City's Drainage Department
    -   Head and sub-head of City's Solid Waste Department
    -   Two Local Sub-District Heads from Drainage Zone 2
    -   Muslim Aid (MA) Project Manager
    -   Muslim Aid project staff
    -   World Bank consultant responsible for ICR

2. The topics discussed were based on some sample questions prepared by Bank staff, and
   focused on the following issues:

    -   Project implementation evaluation based on different stakeholders' points of view,
        and
    -   Evaluation of various stakeholders' performance.

3. The following is a summary of the views and opinions presented at the workshop7:

The Mayor:

The Local Government has had good relations with MA to date. MA programs are not
limited to this ERDS Project, but MA also conducted several programs in Aceh province
such as livelihood and post-Tsunami housing.

MA showed a different way of providing aid, through a distinctive program delivery method
where infrastructure activities were accompanied by direct communication with the
benefitting communities. This was done by involving the local community to maintain the
drainage infrastructure in their neighborhood through maintaining the cleanliness of drainage
channels. Government thanked for activities that were conducted, such as the study tour to
Java to visit and learn about pumping stations operation and garbage management systems
from existing organizations.

The Local (City) Government sees the procedure of the WB as being quite complicated and
time-consuming where time for an initial (procurement) approval could take 2 - 3 months.
This created obstacles because the community needed the infrastructure immediately.


Head of Drainage Department:



7
 The above summary of the different presentations is based on the transcript prepared by MA staff and edited
by the Bank.



                                                     27
MA and their consultant worked in intensive cooperation with the (different levels of)
government to develop the drainage design in 2007. Site investigations were conducted, and
SDA (the Drainage Department) reported on the condition of the existing drainage facilities.
SDA observed that the Project had accomplished its initial objective of routing the storm
water and tidal floodwater to the main drains; from there it is pumped by the pumping
stations to the sea. In terms of the design, the initial plans had been followed: the number of
pumping stations built is in line with the inputs given by the SDA during the initial design
phase.

After the first engineering consultant's assignment was terminated, SDA found minor
difficulties with their design. They communicated a number of variation suggestions
addressing details, such as modification of channel dimensions, the flow pattern, and type /
method of drain construction (precast or stone), etc. Due to limited time and fund constraints,
not all of the suggestions could be implemented, and SDA executed alternate solutions to
solve the problems, for example, raise the road elevations when changing the channel
dimensions was not feasible due to the advanced stage of project completion.

In terms of implementation, SDA observed the project implementation was satisfactory and
well implemented; they also had several observations:

      ·    Termination of some contracts had caused delays.
      ·    There are still some minor defects and several repairs that need to be resolved.
      ·    Project had been completed on time, despite of the addendums and additional scope
           of works.

The infrastructure facilities had been handed over to SDA and are now being operated by
SDA. No significant obstacles had been identified since MA provided training for operators.
Notes on some outstanding repairs and some other minor issues have been submitted to MA
for their response.

Head of City's Solid Waste Department:

The Solid Waste Department (DK3) is satisfied to have additional equipment to support their
programs, particularly the two (2) pick-up mini trucks as they well suited to for their
socialization activities conducted under the trash management division. Twenty-four (24)
"garbage motorcycles"8 now serve for trash collection in the narrow lanes and alleys; this
program involves direct community participation. Socialization programs had been
conducted through community representatives in Zone 2 prior to the start-up of the trash
management program.

Sub-Head of Solid Waste Department:



8
    Modified motorcycles with a large waste container attached to the back of the vehicle




                                                        28
The trash management program was designed as a supporting program to the ERDS Project.
The infrastructure project would be a waste without the community's contribution.

However, they are not really satisfied of the quality of the Chinese-made motorcycles. Status
as per today: 12 had been repaired and are now in operation again, 10 are being repaired, and
2 are heavily damaged. The Solid Waste Department has their own workshop to modify
spare parts as needed for the garbage motorcycles. However local attitude problems on the
importance of maintenance and particularly overloading the motorcycles have the potential to
damage the machines.

The pick-up truck is useful to do mobile patrols, running campaigns, monitoring and
socializing recycling programs in the neighborhoods and schools. He also observed that,
compared to others, all MA programs are well supported by community capacity building
activities.

Local Sub-District Head 1:

She was thankful for Bank assistance. The Project has connected the tertiary drainage from
the residential areas to the main drainage along the big roads from where it is later channeled
to the pumping stations. Some minor problems in the field were reported directly to MA
through an official letter and now are being discussed.

Muslim Aid:

MA had received a letter from Ibu Camat Kutaraja (the sub-district head) regarding improper
drainage flows, and she requested MA to cross-check some sites. MA predicts that problems
are due to the road elevation.

Local Sub-District Head 2:

He was just appointed as the new Camat (head) a few days earlier, therefore has little
information on the project (so far). He will inspect the works in the field. He requested the
City Government and the Bank to pay attention to the adjacent Kelurahan Peuniti for it is
considered a low-lying area. The storm water flows directly into the community housing
area, and they need assistance to repair the pump.

Mayor:

He has a good opinion of MA as an organization. However, the selection method of local
contractors should be reviewed. The problems with some of the selected contractors were
that they have inadequate resources to manage big projects (not enough money,
inexperienced staff, etc). In the end, contract completion costs more than what had been
allocated. The Mayor advised to not only consider the lowest bid price as it may lead to a low
quality of results. In one case, the second-lowest bidder was a state-owned contractor (a more
established company), yet due to the lowest bidder policy, they did not win. The Mayor
requested the Bank to review the lowest bidder policy as per the Bank's procedures.



                                              29
The small traders had been relocated to a temporary market site (SMEP). This year (2010),
the City government will start the second phase of the new Aceh market building where the
traders can later be located. This much better market will hopefully to be finished early next
year (2011). Part of the project funds comes from the local government budget, and another
portion will be from (a different) Bank loan (for local government infrastructure
development). The new market project has not yet been tendered because the bidding
documents are not yet approved by the Bank; there was a request for some minor revisions
but this was already 2 months ago.




                                             30
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Grantee had prepared an Implementation Completion Report dated March 2010 as listed
in Annex 9 under Supporting Documents. Due to its length, only the executive summary of
MA's ICR is included here.
The Grantee had no comments on the draft ICR.




                                       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

1.     The earthquake disaster which triggered the 26 December 2004 tsunami had caused
       major devastation in most areas of Aceh province. 170,000 people were reported
       missing and 500,000 lost their homes. According to the Damage Assessment
       conducted by the Government of Indonesia, there were 4,000 villages and urban
       communities affected, with approximately 127,000 houses completely destroyed.
       Most of sea shorelines particularly those in the west coast area such as Meulaboh had
       been swept by the tsunami waves. The natural disaster created serious damages to the
       sea defense embankments which acted as a vital part of the tidal protection system. In
       the capital city of Banda Aceh, the sea-front borders, sluice gates, drainage channels
       and pump stations that facilitate water to the sea, were among the infrastructures that
       were extensively damaged. This has directly affected the city's flood mitigation
       system. In addition to the regular flood threats that occurred even before the tsunami,
       the city faced bigger risks of the post-tsunami ineffective functions of flood gates,
       pumping stations and damaged or blockaded drainage channels.

2.     Immediately after the emergency phase had passed, the rehabilitation and
       reconstruction processes to restore the social economy ability of the community were
       put in place. These programs were supported by numerous national and international
       donors and implementation agencies. Various programs carried out under the
       coordination of Badan Rekonstruksi Aceh dan Nias (BRR) as the representative of the
       Government of Indonesia (GOI). Multi Donor Trust Fund awarded block grant to the
       GOI for the planning and implementation of Emergency Rehabilitation of the
       Drainage and Flood Protection System of Banda Aceh / ERDS project under the
       World Bank administration. Muslim Aid Indonesia (MA), a British-based non-profit
       organization, was selected to implement the project.

3.     This project is intended to quickly re-establish the functions of the storm water and
       marine flood protection systems which were damaged or destroyed by the earthquake
       and tsunami. The ERDS project is expected to establish an integrated drainage system
       which would not merely restore its original state, yet enhanced the capacity of
       pumping stations and drainage networks to increase their ability for a more sufficient
       and reliable flood control system for the city, or illustrated as `build back better.




                                             31
4.   The implementation of the project went on in April 2006 to December 2009 or over
     the period of 3 years and 9 months, which means a 2-year delay from the deadline
     scheduled at the appraisal time (December 2007).

5.   The final total cost of ERDS project is US$6.5 million, an increase in the amount of
     US$2 million from the initial budget of US$4.5 million. This increment was due to a
     more detail reassessment conducted during the project implementation where it was
     discovered that the original construction and network design would not be sufficient
     to support a reasonable and steadfast system for the city protection.

6.   The procurement risk that rated as high during the appraisal was noticed. MA
     maintained the communication with Bank finance and procurement officers and
     consultants to review procurement procedures and ensured that they were performed
     according to the Bank rules and regulation. The internal auditor gave inputs to
     necessary details and the external auditors notified procedures to be followed.

7.   Most of the physical works and goods procurement, except for package 2.08, had
     been finished by mid of 2009 and handed over to the Local Government (LoGo) on
     July 9, 2009. The second hand-over was executed on December 4, 2009, transferring
     the ownership of package 2.08. During maintenance period, any complaints on the
     packages will be responded by MA. MA will then send written order to associated
     contractors for follow up actions.

8.   The project implementation was completed within the agreed completion time as per
     latest approved extension (December 2009), in spite of delays in the early year of
     implementation. Technical components were successfully installed; the drainage
     reconstructions had been executed as planned and capacity building programs were
     highly supported by the community and appraised by the local government as well as
     the donors.




                                          32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                      33
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document

2. Grant Agreement

3. Environmental Assessment and Environmental Managememt Plan) .MLD Consultants.
September 2006.

4. Aide memoires and management letters

5. Construction Management ­ Monthly Construction Status Reports (17). Royal Haskoning
Consultants. June 2008 to November 2009.

6. Construction Completion Report and Annexes. Royal Haskoning Consultants. December
2009.

7. Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Muslim Aid and City of Banda Aceh
(including schedule of assets to be handed over). July 2008.

8. Emergency Rehabilitation of the Drainage and Flood Protection of Banda Aceh (ERDS)
Project ­ Zone II. Implementation Completion Report. Muslim Aid Indonesia. March 2010.




                                          34
                                       INDONESIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NEW PUMP STATIONS
             EMERGENCY REHABILITATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT AREA (ZONE 2)
                 OF THE DRAINAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NEW DRAIN CONSTRUCTION

           AND FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TSUNAMI-AFFECTED AREAS

                  OF BANDA ACEH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CITY BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Darussalam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FLOODWAY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NATURAL RIVERS




                                                                                                                                                                          Kr. Titipanj ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R   uk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kr.




                                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                      J.L. SYIAH KUALA
                               Gampong Pande PS




                                                                                                                                                                     UH
                                                                                                                                                                    RE
                                                                                                                                                                  EU
                                                                                                                                                                DB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ma



                                                                                                                                                             AU
                                                                                                                                BA   REH                                                                                                      Kr.
                                                                                                                     J.L. POCUT

                                                                                                                                                           T. D
                                                                                                       Krueng Aceh




                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                                                         J.L
                             Lampaseh Kota PS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Floo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0          1          2          3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             way
                         J.L. S. ISKANDAR M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS
                                           U DA
                                  Punge Jurong PS                                                                    J.L. T. CHIK DI TIRO



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                 Kr. Doy




                                                                                                                                                                                            Kruen




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
            Krueng
                                                                                              roy




                     N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                      e ng
                                                                                            Da




                                                                                                                                                                                             g Ac
                                                                                           Kr.




                                                                                                                                                                                               eh




                                                                            AR
                                                                       UM
                                                                . T.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PHILIPPINES
                                                            J .L                                                                                                                                                                   Banda                                                                       PACIFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Aceh                                                                            OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BRUNEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AY S I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A L
                                                                                                    J.L.




                                                                                                                                                                                                    To Medan                       For Detail, M            A
                                                                                                         SEUH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               see main map                                                                                  PAPUA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NEW
                                                                                                             AWA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SINGAPORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GUINEA
                                                                                                                H
                                            J.L. SUDIRMAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jakarta   I N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D O N E S I A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 37841
MAY 2010




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INDIAN                                                        TIMOR-LESTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OCEAN
