Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9021
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
SEPTEMBER 28, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
India Department
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal 1980  US$1  =  Rs8.40
For the following years, average rates in Rupees per US dollar have been
used:
1980/81   :    7.90
1981/82        8.93
1982/83   :   9.63
1983/84       10.31
1984/85   :  11.89
1985/86       12.24
1986/87   :  12.79
1987/88   :  12.97
At PCR mission US$1 = Rsl6.80
Source:   IMF, International Financial Statistics, IFS.
YEARS
The Indian fiscal year runs from April 1 through March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AP        -   h1dhra Pradesh
APFDC     -   Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation
ARDC      -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation.
renamed NABARD
CNSL      -   Cashewnut Shell Liquid
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
GOI       -   Government of India
IDA       -   International Development Agency
IRR       -   Internal Rate of Return
KCDC      -   Karnataka Cashew Development Corporation
NABARD    -   National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
OED       -   Operations Evaluation Department
OSCDC     -   Orissa State Cashew Development Corporation
PCK       -   Plantation Corporation of Kerala
PCR       -   Project Completion Report
SAR       -   Staff Appraisal Report
SC        -   State Corporation
SH        -   Smallholder
VP        -   Vegetative Propagation



FOR OFFICILU USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, DC 20433
U$SA
Olfa. iL DIfCtCW.C~fh
Ope.atmns LvaIuatHm
September 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India Cashewnut
Proiect (Credit 1012-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on India - Cashewnut Project (Credit 1012-IN)"
prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed
by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnanr.e
of their official duties. Its contents may not othe;zvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  1
Eveluation Sunmary .................. .-----iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . .
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                1
Background . ..........                                      ..              1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                2
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                3
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                4
Project Results ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ... .        6
Project Sustainability  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ... .        8
Bank Performance  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ... .         8
Borrower Performance  ....  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .    ....9. .       9
Project Relationship  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .... .  .   10
Consulting Services   ....  .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..... .      10
Project Documentation and Data    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               10
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . .
Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III  . .               11
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned  . . . .               11
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons
Learned .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ... .             12
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Table  1:  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  . . . . . . . .               13
Table  2:  Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .              13
Table  3:  Credit Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               14
Table  4:  Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . .               14
Table  5:  Project Costs and Financing (A and B)  . . . . . .               15
Table  6:  Project Results (A, B and C) . . . . . . . . . . .               17
Table  7:  Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               21
Table  8:  Use of Bank Resources (A and B)  . . . . . . . . .               22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (contd)
Page No.
Table  9:  Production Costs: Plantations Established
Under the Project  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......   .  24
Table 10:   Projected Smnallholder Income from New Plantations         26
Table 11:  Variances in Projected Smallholder Income from
New Plantations - Karnataka   . . . . . . . . . . . .     27
Table 12:  Variances in Projected Smallholder Income from
New Plantations - Orissa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     28
Table 13:  Variances in Projected Smallholder Income from
Neu Plantations - Kerala  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     29
Table 14:   Projected State Corporations Income from
New Plantations   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......   .  30
Table 15:  Variances in Projected Corporation Income from
New Plantations - Karnataka   . . . . . . . . . . . .     31
Table 16:  Variances in Projected Corporation Income from
New Plantations - Orissa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     32
Table 17:  Variances in Projected Corporation Income from
New Plantations - Kerala  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     33
Table 18:  Economic Prices for Fertilizers   . . . . . . . . . . .     34
Table 19:   Price Summary for Economic Analysis   . . . . . . . . .    35
Table 20:  Economic Rate of Return to the Project  . . . . . . . .     36
Table 21:   Economic Rate of Return to Smallholder Component  . . .    37
Table 22:   Economic Rate of Return to Corporate on Component   . .    38
Table 23:   Selected Cashew Production and Price Statistics   . . .    39



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completior Report (PCR) for the Cashewnut
Project in India, for which Credit 1012-IN in the amount of US$22.0 million
was approved on April 29, 1980. The credit was closed on September 30, 1987.
The final disbursement was made on May 24, 1988 and $6.65 million was can-
celled.
Parts I and III of the PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Opera-
tions Division of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III). Part II was based on the "old style" PCR prepared by the Direc-
torate of Cashewnut Development of Kerala's Ministry of Agriculture.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final super-
vision mission of the project in September 1987, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the legal documents, supervisi-)n reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and
the "old style" PCR prepared by the Directorate of Cashewnut Development of
Kerala's Ministry of Agriculture.



- iii -
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
The objective of the project was to increase the local production of
raw cashewnuts for processing in India so that the cashew industry can improve
its export position; to increase the income of smallholders and corporations
in the cashew sector; to allow cashewnut processors greater throughputs; and
to provide employment and income for the poorer segments in the cashewnut
producing states. At the same time, the project aimed to improve the
production base of the cashew sector through research on high-yielding
varieties and more efficient methods of producing cl.ial material for
vegetative propagation.
Implementation Experience
Project implementation was somewhat slower than anticipated at
appraisal due to: (a) the inability of the State Governments of Kerala,
Karnataka and Orissa to release the required land for corporations; and (b)
inadequate staff to deal with the smallholder component. The production
programme included both new plantings and improvements to existing plantings.
In the case of the smallholder component, the major variance was the very poor
response to the improvement programme, whereas ;n the corporate sector the
major variances was the inability of the Plantation Corporation of Kerala to
meet its planting target due to land availability constraints. Following
reallocation of improvement targets to new plantings, the project was able to
achieve its revised planting targets at the end of a two-year extension
period. At completion, actual disbursements under the credit reached a total
of US$15.35 million, leaving a balance of US$6.65 million, which was
cancelled. This was mainly due to the devaluation of the Rupee which
substantially reduced the local costs in dollar terms.
Results
The project was able to achieve its main quantitative objectives in
spite of the land availability problems. However, these problems are
reflected in the high proportion of poor and unsuitable soils that have been
used for new plantings, which in turn are reflected in the low yields of
cashewnuts currently being obtained. Yields are much lower than expected
(about 40Z of appraisal estimates) and are due not only to the poor soil



- iv -
conditions but to the 13w levels of inputs being used for maintenance o; the
trees.
Overall economic and financial rates cf return estimated at project
completion are lower than appraisal estimates. The economic rate of return is
re-estimated at 13?, about half of the appraisal ebtimate of 25Z. Although
132 is still a reasonable figure, it has been strongly supported by a 250:
price increase for raw nuts since appraisal. For smallholders the financial
rate of return before financing is estimated at 24? as against a range of 242
to 40? at appraisal, whereas for the corporations it is estimated at 6? as
opposed to 152 tc 18? at appraisal. The large variances are due to the
substantially lower yields coupled with much higher labor costs, offset to a
large extent by the higher produce prices plus reduced expenditure for
maintenance. However, for those smallholders receiving only 50? of crop value
under the contract harvesting system, the financial rate of return falls to
11Z. The corporations in Kerala and Orissa are both making substantial losses
due to the combined effect of low yields and low prices obtained from contract
harvesters.
Sustainability
The somewhat low benefits from the cashew planted under the project
are likely to be maintained. At the same time, there is considerable scope for
improving the benefits. However, to attain this, a change of attitude towards
the crop is required, i.e., away from that of a "crop of last resort" towards
being regarded as a high value cash crop. But as the impetus of specialized
cashew extension has been lost since the project closed, such a change in
attitude is likely to be slow. Also, very little new planting of cashew has
taken place since project completion, mainly due to the withdrawal of planting
subsidies. This is unfortunate as the research efforts under the project have
created the opportunity of upgrading the cashew production base with the
exclusive use of high yielding clonal material.
Findings and Lessons Learned
Through the project, the Bank made a positive contribution to the
physical and institutional development of the cashew sub-sector. The
experience suggests a number of lessons to be learned. During preparation and
appraisal, more recognition should have been given to the producers
perceptions of the crop; the question of whether or not to use land for new
plantings which did not meet the criteria laid down for suitability should
have been resolved during the early supervision missions; and yield
predictions at appraisal should have been firmly based on precedent.



CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Project Name          Cashewnut Project
Credit No.       :    1012-IN
RVP Unit         :   Asia
Country               India
Sector                Agriculture
2. Background
2.1        Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy.  It
provides 64Z of the country's employment, contributes about 33Z of the GOP (in
1987) and accounts for about 132 of India's exports. During the past two
decades, the development objectives of the Government of India (GOI) have
focused on agriculture and particular emphasis has been given to foodgrain
production, with a view to reaching self-sufficiency in staple food
commodities. GOI also accords importance to cash crops, including cashewnuts,
which generate export earnings and create high employment.
2.2       India pioneered cashewnut processing - extraction of kernels and
cashewnut shell liquid (CNSL) I/ from raw nuts - and dominated the world
market up until mid-1970s when 902-95Z of the kernel trade was handled by
India even though it produced only about 25X-30X of total world output of raw
nuts. The balance of processing requirements was imported mostly from East
African producing countries. As of early 1970s, other producing countries
started building up their own processing facilities and India encountered
serious procurement problems for raw nuts from its traditional suppliers in
East Africa. Whereas raw nut imports amounted to an average of 160,000 tons
per year during the decade 1965-1975, by 1978 only 20,000 tons of raw nuts
were imported, causing kernel exports to fall to less than 30,000 tons in 1978
from an annual average of 55,000 tons per year for the period 1965-1975. This
represented a loss of almost US$100 million in export revenue and about 10
million labor days in the processit.g industry.
2.3       In an effort to redress this situation, GOI, in coordination with
the cashew growing states, embarked on a program to boost local cashew
production with the objectives of regaining its former export position,
ensuring employment for rural workers and enhancing the incomes of
smallholders in the ca3hewnut producing areas. Measures taken initially
concentrated on research and the provision of credit for new plantings.
I/   CNSL is a phenol used mainly in manufacture of friction materials.



However, to speed up the expansion of local raw nut production and to ensure a
better u.;e of existing pros-essing capacities in the country, GOI requested
World Bank financing for a broader based cashewnut development project to:
(a) expand substantially the area under cashewnut in both the corporate
and the smallholder sectors;
(b) support research on cashewnut so as to provide high yielding
planting material to producers and to develop a technology for
field dissemination of pest control measures and maintenance of
plantings; ard
(c) examine ways and means to improve the efficiency and competitiveness
of the industry, interstate coordination of both production and
processing, meeting the needs of the predominately smallholder
plantation sector, and to improve cashew trade promotion.
3. Project ( Aectives and Description
3.1       Project Objectives.  In accordance with the above GOI strategy for
the agricultural sector, the objectives of the cashewnut project were: to
increase the local production of raw cashewnuts for processing in che country,
so that the cashew industry could improve its export position; to increase the
income of smallholders and corporations in the sector; to allow cashewnut
processors to work their facilities at higher capacities; and to provide
employment income for the poorer members of society in the cashew growing
states. At the same time, the project aimed to improve the production base of
the cashew sector through research on high yielding varieties and more
efficient methods of producing clonal material for vegetative propagation.
3.2       Project  Description.  The Cashewnut Project (Credit 1012-IN)
provided for:
(a) a cashew planting and improvement programme covering 61,275 ha, of
which 35,000 ha were to be developed by private farmers and the
balance of 26,275 ha by state cashew development, forest development
or plantation corporations;
(b) staff buildings, roads, vehicles, eqaipment for the corporations;
(c) staff vehicles, equipment and operating costs of supporting services
for the private farmers programme, and funds for training
departmental and corporation staff;
(d) a 500 ha pilot scheme to determine appropriate cashew plant:.ng
practices on coastal dune land in Orissa:
(e) strengthening cashew research by improving and expanding the central
cashew research station and three regional substations, and by
establishing a new regional substation;
(f) a program to improve about 200 km feeder roads in Kerala; and



(g) a rtudy fer improving the organizational structure of the industry.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1       The project was prepared by the four participating states (Kerala,
Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa) with guidance from GO! Ministry of
Agriculture Project Preparation and Monitoring Cell and from staff of the
World Bank New Delhi office, and was based on reports from each of the four
states, completed in r)ctober 1978.
4.2       The conceptual framework of the project was basically sound and was
supportive of the cashewnut developnient objectives mutually agreed between GOI
and the Bank.
4.3       During preparation a number of issues were raised.  These included:
land availability for the corporations, i.e., the difficulty of identifying
land for cashew development; the institutional arrangements and lending terms
for disbursement of credit to smallholders; the provision of a 25Z subsidy for
smallholder plantings; whether or not a research co,nponent should be included;
and the organization of cashew extension. Resolving these issues took
considerable time and resulted in about one year's delay in processing of the
project. Perhaps the most contentious issue was that of land to be made
available to the Plantation Corporation of Kerala (PCK) for development. In
retrospect, it can be argued that the land allocation difficulties were
unlikely to be resolved satisfactorily and that this component should have
been withdrawn from the project. As it turned out, PCK planted only 545 ha of
cashew on one contiguous block of highly unsuitable land.
4.4       The suitability of available land for cashew was discussed during
pre-appraisal guidelines laid down and site visits made co verify land
suitability. However, at and following appraisal it seems thlat the problems
of land availability, per se, became dominant and little, if any, further
effort was made to ensure that suitable land was used for cashew plantings.
Although cashew is able to produce crops on poor soils, the decision not to
plant on soils not falling into the specified grade should have been agreed
upon during supervision. Particularly in Kerala and to a certain extent in
Karnataka, a very high proportion of unsuitable land was used, i.e., "waste"
land with very shallow rocky soils, totally unsuited for any crop other than
cashew, which was planted as a crop of last resort.
4.5       Further, climatic differences between the states appear to have been
discounted during preparation and this, together with optim sm regarding the
use of suitable soils, led to one standard set of yield predictions for all
four states for the "with project" situation in the SAR. As will be discussed
later in the report, these yield predictions turned out to be unrealistic and
highly optimistic. In Orissa, with lower rainfall than on the west coast, the
SAR assumed that the use of vegetatively propagated (VP) plants, on part of
the land, would compensate for the less favorable ecology. However, the
position was misjudged at preparation and as very little planting actually
took place with VP material in Orissa, this compensation did not materialize.



4.6       The timing of the project would appear to have been appropriate in
terms of increaZing the cashew production base. However, it was unfortunate
that the timing was sueh that only negligible quantities of VP planting
material were arailable during the project period and thus the vast majority
of plantings utilized only selected seed.
4.7       The institutional arrangements were extremely complex involving many
organizations spread over a large geographic area. in consequence, project
coordination was a problem until the later stages of the project, when the
staffing positUon improved.  The Directorate of Cashewnut Development,
Ministry of Agriculture, based in Cochin, had overall responsibility for the
project. In the corporate sector, implementatiun was carried out by the
Plantation Corporation of Kerala (PCK), the Karnataka Cashew Development
Corporation (KCDC), the Orissa State Cashew Development Corporation (OSCDC),
and the Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation (APFDC). For the
smallholders, extension and cashew units were set up 4n each of tle four
participating states under the various state departments of agriculture.
4.8       One of the most successful aspects of project design was the
research component. Although it had a slow start, the dissemination of
technical packages coupled with regular training courses for extension workers
greatly assisted the project to gain momentum. Although certain aspects of
the mechanism for dissemination of credit to smallholders can be criticized,
there is no doubt that the meeting uf physical targets, although delayed, was
the direct result of a basically workable credit system.
4.9       On the other hand, there was a failure to meet credit disoursement
targets mainly because not all plantings were supported by bank loans and as a
result of a fall-off in credit uptake in the subsequent years after planting.
The latter was due primarily to the small amounts of credit made available to
the farmer in the 4th and 5th years after planting and to the fact that no
subsidy was paid in years 4 and 5.  This farmer resistance to credit uptake
after three years was, to a certain extent, conditioned by a common attitude
not to regard cashew cultivation as a commercial enterprise ana in consequence
to minimize maintenance costs.
4.10      Further, the mission gained the impression that a significant
proportion of smallholder plantings were carried out by town-dwellers who eo
not depend on their farming activities for their main source of income. This
group appear to have taken advantage of the subsidies, minimized their
borrowings, made early credit repayments and are neglecting maintenance of
their cashew trees.
5. Project Implementation
5.1       Credit Number 1012-IN was :.igned on June 10, 1980 and became
effective on September 3, 1980. The credit was originally scheduled to close
on September 30, 1985. However, in early 1984 only about 62Z of the total
smallholder target area had been planted. The main reasons for this shortfall
were iiisufficient staff at headquarters and field level, and the lack of
quality of field and supervisory staff, their mobility, and initial



constraints in banking. Similarly, the corporations had only achieved 64Z of
their overall planting target in 1984. The main reason for this was the
inability of the State Governments of Kerala, Karnataka and Orissa to release
the required land. Due to the delays in implementation, and the unexplained
failure to meet planting targets during 1984/85, two extensions, each of one
year's duration, were agreed and the credit closed on September 30, 1987.
5.2       There were two critical variances between planned and actual
implementation. Firstly, the production programme included improvements to
existing plantings; smallholders 4,500 ha and corporations 3,000 ha. As the
criteria 2/ adopted for selection of plots for improvement proved too rigid
and the financial inducements offered inadequate, there was no appreciable
response from smallholders to the improvement program. Tn consequence, it was
agreed in 1983-84 to convert the smallholder improvement program to additional
new plantings and these targets were revised according'y. Secondly, in the
corporate sector an additional 1,400 ha for new plantings was targeted to KCDC
and OSCDC during 1987, at a time when it was clear that PCK would not meet its
planting target due to land availability constraints. For further details see
Table 4 of Part III.
5.3       The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was about US$45.7
million, including contingencies. The final cost is about US$31.13 million as
shown in Table 5A in Part III. Disbursements under the IDA credit reached a
total of US$15.35 million, leaving an undisbursed balance of US$6.65 million,
which was cancelled at the close of disbursements in September 1988. This
credit savings was due to: (a) reduction in the numbers of vehicles and civil
works for the State Corporations; (b) reduction in the credit component for
the smallholders who opted to finance plantation maintenance from their own
resources rather than from the project-financed credit; and (c) exchange rate
fluctuations.
5.4       The SAR identified the major project risk as obtaining adequate
smallholder participation in the project. Although this risk was eventually
overcome, other associated risks were not adequately identified, particularly
the factors affecting projected yield levels and returns to the producers.
These included:
-    land availability and suitability, particularly in Kerala and
Karnataka;
-    the poor response by smallholders to the programs for improvement of
existing cashew plantations;
-    the use of fertilizer and insecticide inputs at lower than
recomamended rates; and
-    the misconception of tachnical possibilities in Orissa where
virtually no VP material was used for new plantings.
2/   Trees not more than 10 years old with reasonable spacing, suitable soils.



-    the effect of the crop auctioning system in substantially redtucing
the returns to producers. Because of labor shortages in the case
of smallholders and intimidation of labor in the case of the
corporations, particularly in Orissa, 3/ contractors are able to
purchase whole crops at a fraction of their true market values.
Although by purchasing crops at flowering stage, the contractors
are clearly taking a risk, this risk appears to be more than offset
by the low prices paid. Estimates of the percentage crop values
paid by contractors to producers vary from 20 (Supervision Report
dated April 1986) to about 50. However, it should be noted that
these are very rough estimates, as contractors invariably do not
disclose the weight of raw nuts harvested on any particular estate.
6. Project Results
Physical Results
6.1       Planting and Improvement Program.  The project achieved its main
quantitative objective in terms of area planted following a two year extension
of the credit, and can thus in physical terms be considered a success. In the
smallholder sector, the overall new planting target, which was increased
following the conversion of the improvement programme into new plantings, was
slightly exceeded. All states met their targets with the exception of Kerala,
which fell only marginally short of its revised target. In the corporate
sector, the improvement target was achieved. However, for new plantings,
although the appraisal target was exceeded, the revised target was not
reached. The significant shortfall was in Kerala, where PCK was only able to
plant about 24Z of its targeted area.
6.2       Kerala Feeder Road Improvement.  The objective of improving about
200 km of feeder roads in Kerala was exceeded by about 10%.
6.3       Orissa Sand Dune Pilot Scheme.  The objective was to plant 500 ha of
cashew on the coastal strip of shifting sand dunes in order to find methods
for converting these presently useless dune areas into commercially or
economically viable cashew plantations. Only about 77 ha were planted between
1982-1984. Although the stand was substantially reduced by a cyclone in 1983,
further plant deaths were subsequently shown to be the result of soil salinity
and waterlogging. As very few plants survived, it was agreed to discontinue
the pilot project.
6.4       Research.  After a slow start, the research component progressed
well and some impressive results have been achieved in developing improved
planting material, and improving the productivity of cashew trees, through
epicotyl grafting and top working. Of great significance has been the
3/   Although OSCDC planned to harvest their cashew with their own labor, they
have been unable to do so because of intimidation, two laborers having
allegedly been killed in this connection.



development of softwood grafting as a standard method of vegetative
propagation and its commercial adoption. A further breakthrough has been the
establishment of clonal orchards to be used as primary sources of VP material
in the future.
6.5       Study.  The Cashew Industry Study was completed in 1985.  As the
study appears to be still under consideration by the Ministry of Agriculture
and copies have not been distributed to interested parties within the cashew
industry, it must be concluded that the study has had little impact.
Rates of Return
6.6       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the whole project has been
re-estimated at 13Z over a 40-year period, which 's about half of the SAR
estimate of 25Z. For the smallholder component, the completion estimate of
ERR is 162 and for the corporations component 112, which compare with the SAR
estimates of 312 and 242, respectively. The SAR estimates were based on
highly optimistic yield projections which both small farmers and corporations
were unable to achieve. The lower than expected yields (about 402 of SAR
estimates - see comments on Table 6A of Part III for more details) were mainly
due to the poor soils on which new plantations were established and to the low
level of inputs used by smallholders and corporations during the maintenance
period. Notwithstanding the low yields, the ERR of 13Z is still reasonable
and this can be attributed mainly to a 2502 increase in prices paid for raw
nuts since appraisal (Rs 4.8/kg to Rs 12.0/kg). Present indications are that
the current price paid for raw nuts will fall slightly in the medium term.
(See Indonesia Cashew Study, FAO Investment Center, dated 18 December 1989).
6.7       Financial results of the project have been analyzed by computing a
financial rate of return (IRR) for the new planting operations on a per
hectare basis, before and after financing, for both smallholders and
corporations. For smallholders, the IRR before financing is estimated at 242
as against a range of 242-402 at appraisal, and the return to farmer's equity
is assessed at 402 as against 50%+ in the SAR. For the corporations, an IRR of
62 is calculated compared with 152 to 182 at appraisal. The large variances
are again due to the substantially lower yields together with much higher
labor costs, offset to a large extent by the much higher producer prices
together with reduced expenditure for maintenance. However, for those
smallholders receiving only 502 of crop value under the contract harvesting
system, the IRR before financing falls to 112 and becomes negative if the
price obtained is only 35Z of the free market price. A similar situation
applies to the corporations, all of whom use contract harvesters, with PCK and
OSCDC making substantial losses. For further details see comments on Table 6B
of Part III.
Project Impact
6.8       The project has already made a positive impact on cashewnut
production in India. However, if farmers and corporations can be persuaded to
increase their standards of management and maintenance, the impact of the
project could still increase dramatically. The project has provided human
resource development in so much as researchers, extension workers and farmers



- 8 -
have received training in many aspects of cashew production. Although the sand
dunes experiment was a failure, and development of unsuitable, steeply sloping
land initially led to soil erosion, on the whole the project had a positive
impact on the environment. Waste and marginal land was developed for
productive use and protected against further degradation once the canopy of
cashew trees had developed.  The impact on the technological environment has
been excellent with the selection of high yielding planting material and the
establishment of a workable method of vegetative propagation. Given improved
extension and an efficient system of distributing clonal material, there is no
doubt that all future new plantings of cashew in India could be, and should
be, with high yielding clonal material. The exclusive use of such material
could greatly improve the profitability of cashew for the growers and improve
India's competitiveness in the world market (for selected statistics on
production and prices see Table 23).
6.9       The research component of the project was mainly responsible for the
development of this potential. As far as che social environment is concerned,
the project substantially increased the demand for daily paid labor. However,
it did provide increased opportunities, particularly with the corporations,
for the operations of apparently highly unscrupulous cashew harvesting
contractors. The institutions involved in the project have gained a great
deal of experience which could be built upon to improve the execution of a
similar project, should one be undertaken in the future.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1       As the present level of benefits are somewhat low due to the
producer's conservative attitudes towards maintenance of cashew, there is
little doubt that the present benefits from the cashew planted under the
project are likely to be maintained. On the other hand, there is ample scope
for improving the benefits. However, any significant improvement will to a
large extent depend on a change of attitude towards the crop, i.e., towards
being regarded more as a high value commercial cash crop rather than as a crop
of last resort or, as in Orissa, a crop purely for soil conservation purposes.
Although there are signs that some farmers are now regarding the crop in a
commercial context and are applying more intensive management practices, a
general change of attitude is unlikely in the short term. It is unfortunate
that following the close of the project and the subsequent integration of the
staff of the cashew units into the general extension and soil conservation
services, the impetus of specialized cashew extension has been lost. Further,
very little post-project new planting has taken place, primarily due to the
withdrawal of the subsidy for new cashew plantings. Farmers appear to be
attracted more towards planting rubber or coconuts because of their current
planting subsidies and the above world market prices paid for their products.
This is a most unfortunate development particularly as the research efforts
under the project have created the opportunity of upgrading the cashew
production base with the exclusive use of high yielding clonal material.
8. Bank Performance
8.1       Through the project, the Bank made a positive contribution to the
physical and institutional development of the cashewnut sub-sector. Although



- 9 -
the Bank performance was satisfactory, a number of weaknesses are apparent.
There seems to have been little involvement in the project of the Resident
Mission in India after the preparation stage. This and the discontinuity of
Bank staff involved in the project implementation probably led to the
inadequate treatment and follow-up of issues and risks previously mentioned
and the failure during supervision to anticipate the advent of lower yields
and to suggest action to overcome the harvesting/marketing difficulties.
8.2       In retrospect, the main lessons that may be learned from the project
are as follows:
(a) During preparation and appraisal more recognition should have been
given to the producers perceptions of the crop, to the overall
smallholder economy into which the crop would be introduced and to
the limited extent to which they would adopt intensive management
practices.
(b) The evolving problem of land availability during the early stages of
project implementation was allowed to override the laid-down
criteria for land selection. This issue merited attention and
should have been raised and resolved during the early supervision
period.
(c) Yield predictions at appraisal should be firmly based on precedent
and on realistic assessments of the availability (to farmers) of
improved technologies and should take into consideration ecological
differences between widely spaced geographic locations. Risks
should be fully identified.
(d) The local Resident Mission should have a higher degree of
involvement in project supervision.
(e) Marketing should have been more closely studied during preparation
and appraisal.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       In general, the overall performance of the implementing agencies was
reasonably satisfactory, although coordination difficulties were experienced.
9.2       Project covenants were generally adhered to (see Table 7 of Part
III), but with delays particularly in the submission of audited accounts. GOI
support to the project was generally positive.
9.3       GOI played the lead role in project preparation but the close
relationship between land availability and land suitability was not defined.
After a slow start, the state cashew units performed well in stimulating
smallholder farmers to accept credit to establish new cashew plantations.
However, by concentrating on achieving planting targets, the field workers
seem to have missed the opportunity to get over to the farmers the importance
of improving cashew management and failed, on the whole, to influence farmers
to adopt a more commercial attitude to the crop. A partial explanation could



- 10 -
be that of staff quality and shortages: out of an approved staff complement of
425 only 384 were recruited. In the corporate sector, recruitment of staff was
well below that expected, i.e, only 453 out of 1,061. The reasons given for
this shortfall are overestimates of staff requirements at appraisal and, due
to the restrictive labor laws regarding dismissal of staff, reluctance on the
part of the corporations to hire labor unless considered absolutely essential.
9.4       The main lesson learnt by the borrower is clearly that although
cashew cultivation can be viable under poor soil and management conditions, it
is in fact a crop which can be highly profitable to the producer when grown
under the right conditions.
10. Project Relationship
10.1     The success of this project in achieving its physical targets is a
result of the good working relationships between the Bank and the Borrower and
the various implementing agencies.
11. Consulting Services
11.1     Consultants played a minor role in the project, only the Cashew
Industry Study was done by conisultants. The study was completed by local
consultants at a substantially lower cost than anticipated. Although the
study produced a wealth of useful background material, there was very little
interpretation or analysis of the data, and the conclusions and
recommendations were only general in nature and did not provide a useful
framework for future developments in the cashew industry.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1     During project implementation, the SAR was generally perceived as a
useful framework. As far as availability of relevant data to the PCR mission
was concerned, the draft PCR, consolidated by the Directorate of Cashewnut
Development, Ministry of Agriculture, proved tc be a useful reporting
document, but with little critical analysis.
12.2     With regard to the project data base, this is dispersed throughout
the four participating states and no centralized data base exists. More
exchange of research results is needed between states, and there is a
particular need to consolidate information on the availability of clonal
planting material and the capacity of the various nursery sites to produce
such material.



- 11 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
13. Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III
13.1      The overall achievement of the Cashewnut Project is highly
encouraging. Even though it is a maiden attempt, the experience gives us
enough scope towards increasing the production of raw cashewnut in the
country. Against the physical target of 64,675 ha the reported achievement is
61,279 ha. By the end of 1994-95 the project is expected to yield 43,669 mt.
13.2      The project has helped to improve the economic status of small and
marginal farmers of the participating States. The Project motivated 34,740
farmers who must supplement their farm income by casual labor, Participation
in this project has helped them for a relatively greater securities of income
and employment for their families. The project has generated about 6.7
million labor days during the project period.
13.3      The country data, defining the project profile at completion as
presented in Part III, was prepared by GOI's Directorate of Cashewnut
Development and discussed thoroughly in the field.
14. Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
14.1      Bank personnel were recognized as professional in all respects.
While mission members were always highly qualified in their respective fields,
there were occasions when the composition of supervision missions was not
appropriate to address the kinds of implementation problems occurring. There
was little involvement in the project during supervision stage of the Resident
Bank staff involved in the Project. Normal assigned supervision staff were
changed frequently, and as a result, assistance to resolve issues was not
readily forthcoming. The length of time between some missions during the mid
implementing stage was not consistent.
14.2      The major lesson learned is that during the preparation and
appraisal stages, the Bank should have reviewed needs of smallholders,
particularly as to need for credit beyond the Znd year. The Bank at the
preparation and appraisal stages also were overly optimistic as to land
selection and acquisiticn. The Bank was also overly optimistic as to the
availability of improved technological package of inputs, particularly high
yielding varieties that were assessed in the different agro-climatic zones; as
a result yield predictions at appraisal were over-estimated. Bank was also
over-optimistic as to the ability of the research agencies to come up with
improved varieties for different agro-climatic regions. Marketing should have
been reviewed more thoroughly. Bank over-estimated personnel needed in the
corporate sector. A final lesson learned is that good and consistent
supervision assists the Government with technical assistance and direction.



- 12 -
15. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
15.1      The performance of the participating institutions in overall project
planning and implementation was good. The implementation of the project was
slowed by a shortage of improved varieties of cashewnut and mobilization of
each state's resources and manpower.
15.2      The major lessons learned were:  (a) State's learned that cashew is
not the crop of last resort; (b) cashew should not be planted in poor soils
and that it should have good farm management practices, especially ample
inputs; and (c) cashew is a highly attractive and profitable crop that can
have a tremendous impact on small holdings especially in drought or dry areas
of India.



-13 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT (CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 1. RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title      PurpoSe         Year of        Status        Comments
Aooroval
Kerala Agricultural       Tree CroP         1977         Closed       PCR (1989)
Development Project       Production                     Sept 30      suggests
(Credit No. 680-IN)                                      1986         fairly
successful
project
TABLE 2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Da-te            Des iDate
Planned         Revised         Actual
Identification                                                   June 1977
Preparation                                                      Oct. 1978 1/
Appraisal Mission Z/                                             Oct. 1978
Post-Appraisal Mission                                           March &
Sept 1979
Credit Negotiations             May 1919         Jan 1980        March 1980
Board Approval                  June 1979        May 1980        April 21. 1980
Credit Signature                                                 June 10, 1980
Credit Effectiveness                                             Sept 3. 1980
Credit Closing                  Sept 30, 1985  Sept 30, 1986  Sept 30, 1987
Credit Completion                                                May 24. 1988
Ij Project prepared by the four participating states with guidance from GOI
Ministry of Agriculture and from staff of WB New Delhi office.
2/ Upgraded from pre-appraisal mission.



- 14-
I       INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECTCRLDIT 1012-L;)
TABLE 3. CREDIT DISBURSEv,ENT
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
12       H       1983 1984  16     5L  1986197 198
Appraisal Estimate              0.60  3.30  7.50  14.00 22.00
Actual                          0.25  1.67  3.52   5.77  7.53 10.48 12.16 15.35
Actual as % of Estimate          42    51    47       41    34    48    55    70
Date of Final Disbursement:  May 24, 1988
TABLE 4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators                      Appraisal      Revised          Actual
Estimate                 (or PCR estimate)
Corporations
New Plantations (ha)                   23,275         24,675           23,400
Improvement (ha)                        3,000          3,000            5,013
Cost (RsO000)                          68,700           -              99.525
Smallholdders
New Plantations (ha)                   30,500         37,000           37,879
Improvement (ha)                        4.500 j/        0                 103
Cost (Rs'000)                          95,700           -              95,620
Total Plantation (ha)                  61,275         64,675           61,279
Total Improvement (ha)                  7,500          3,000            5,116
Total Cost (Rs000)                   164,400           -             195,145
Kerala Feeder Road (km) (no.)             258 (32)      -                 220 (31)
Orissa Dune Pilot Scheme (ha)             500                              77 2/
I/ Reallocated to new plantations.
2/ Abandoned.



- 15 -
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT (CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
1/                      21
Appraisal Estimate.  .    . . . . . Actual . . . . .
Items         (US$ million) (Rs million)    (US$ million)  (Rs million)
- Plantations by            14.4        121.0           8.56            95.6
Small holders
- Plantations by            10.4         86.9           8.92            99.6
State Corporations
- Government Departments:  4.0           33.6           4.64            52.1
Salaries, Vehicles.
Equipment, Operating
Expenses
- State Corporations:       12.3        103.6           6.30            70.8
Salaries. Civil Works,
Vehicles. Equipment.
Operating Expenses
- Kerala Feeder Roads        2.8         23.9           1.'.            20.9
- Orissa Pilot Coastal       0.3          2.1           0.19              2.1
Dune Scheme
- Research. Training         1.4         11.2           0.66              8.5
- Cashew Industry Study    0.1            1.3          0.003              0.3
Grand Total                 45.7        i2.S-          3349.9
.j/ Exchange rate: US$1 = Rs8.40. Physical and price contingencies have
been incorporated into cost estimates as per aDpraisal report.
2/ Actual expenditures as reported by GOI have been phased according
to loan disbursement schedule and the corresponding US dollar value
has been calculated by applying the estimated exchange rate during
disbursement period (see Currency Equivalents).



- 16 -
B. P-oject Financ,nQ
-I)urce                . .    Planned . .           .    Final . . .
Loan Agreement
(US$ million)     (%)      (US$ million)    (%)
IDA Expenditure Categories          22.0         48            15.35         49
GOI and State Governments            12.7         28
15.78 Z/      51
Banks and Growers                    11.0  1     24
Total                                                    3.3ia
I/ Rounded downwards.
2/ Breakdown not available.
Comments:     Even  though  there  were cost overruns in some categories, the
total amount in US dollars spent was considerably less than estimated at
appraisal (32%) due to changes in the exchange rate between US$ and Rs. The
contribution in dollar terms of GOI. State Governments, banks and growers
was 33% less than estimated at appraisal.



- 17 -
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT (CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 6. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Economic Impact
Appraisal.        PCR
Estimate   Estimate
Economic Rate of Return 1/
Overall Project                                      25%            13%
Smaliholder Component                                31%            16%
Corporation Component                                24%            11%
Underlying Assumotions
Yield at full development for smallholders  900 kg/ha             350 kg/ha
'iield at full development for corporations  900 kg/ha            375 kg/ha
Irput use for maintenance                      according to        reduced Z/
recommendation
Incremental production at full
d velopment                                    48,395             22,125
Price for raw nuts per ton                 Rs6,405 for 1985,    Rs12,000
rising to Rs7,270
for 1990 and onwards
1/ For details see cash flow in Appendices 13-14.
Z/ For details on recommended fertilizer and crop chemical use and
actual use by smallholders and corporations see Appendix 1,
Footnote 3.
Comments:
Yields and Benefits
The principal direct e:onomic benefits of the project are the
incremental production of raw cashewnuts from the 61,280 ha of new cashew
plantations established under the smallholder and corporation components of
the  project.   As  yields  for the two components were reassessed at levels
considerably below SAR estimates, the incremental production per annum is
estimated to amount to 22,125 tons at full development of the trees against
the 48,395 tons projected at appraisal for the new plantings. The lower
yields (about 40% of appraisal estimates) achieved by the smallholders and
Uhe corporations are as a result of  the  lower  than  recommended   use  of



-  8-
ilizer and crop chemicals oy both groups, the poor quality of soils on
i plantations were established and, particularly in the case of
Iholders, the attitude that cashew is a marginal crop of last resort.
a reflect directly on the over&il ERR of the project being reassessed at
50% of appraisal estimates.
All  economic   costs   have   been  adjusted   to   reflect   1982
cant values and include capital  and  operating  cost  for  the  overall
-ct. costs for research and training, the Cashew Industry Study. the
;a pilot coastal dunes scheme and the Kerala feeder roads. As detailed
-mation on disbursement was not available from all states, costs have
phased according to the credit disbursement schedule. Capital and
3ting costs for the smallholder and the corporation component have been
ided in the amount of Rs8.0 million after the project implementation
-d to allow for civil works and replacement of equipment. In view of the
inued effort in cashew research, costs for this component have been
idered at Rsl.O million per annum for the period after project
wmentation. Prices for fertilizer and crop chemicals have been adjusted
-eflect their economic value in constant 1982 prices. Cost for unskilled
)r, which accounts for about 70% of the production cost, has been
-ssed in 1982 constant value. All input costs have been adjusted by the
Jard conversion factor of 0.8. currently applied in project analysis for
i. Production as a result of the project has been calculated on the
of PCR average yield estimates and valued by using the current raw nut
:, adjusted to its 1982 constant value. A summary of economic prices is
i In Appendix 11.
B. Financial Imoact
5AR          PCR        With Contract
icial Rates of Return (IRR)          Esti .ate    Estimates,  Harvestinag  /
Iholder before financing            24% - 40%        24%           11%
nallholder's equity                    50% +         40%
)rations before financing               n.a.         22%             9%
)rations  rate of return             15% - 18%        6%
iyment of 50% of crop value.
Financial    models    for   both   smaliholders   and  corporation
itions have  been   developed  on  the  basis   of   field   information
!cted   during  the  mission  for  the  purpose  of  evaluation  of  the
icial viability of the new plantings. Prices used in the analysis are
- prevailing  at  the  time of the mission's visit to India. It was not
idered necessary to develop separate models for the various states as
approach  of  smallholders and corporations to cashew establishment and
lopment did not differ greatly in the three states visited. Details on
of establishment and maintenance of plantations are given in
idix 1.



- 19 -
Financial Results
Smallholders. Cash f w projections for smaliholder operations are
given in Appendix 2. Financing has been based on a 20% equity contribution
by the farmers for the first three years of the operation and a contribution
of over 50% during the fourth year to compensate for the d'scontinuation of
the subsidy paid to farmers during the first three years of establishment of
the plantations and to avoid a higher bank loan. This reflects the behaviour
of farmers interviewed who stated that the loan sanctioned by the banks (at
an average of Rs2,560 in five different installments) was not sufficient to
cover  all  costs,  and  a certain resistance to take a higher loan from the
banks. The subsidy  element  paid  by  the  Central  and  State  Governments
averaged out to be about Rs300 per ha per annum for a period of three years.
In general, farmers stated that they were not interested in taking the loan
for  the  full  period envisaged (5 year) and preferred to repay as soon as
they were able to do so. In fact, some farmers have already paid back the
total  loan  even   before  their plantations reached the bearing  stage. In
other instances farmers indicated that the loan installments for maintenance
in years 4 and 5 were not sufficient to cover actual cost and as a result
they preferred not to take up these loans. This attitude is reflected in the
repayment schedule used in the analysis: loan disbursements over the first
five years and repayment commencing from year 6. The first installment in
year 6  being  accrued  interest,  followed  by  three equal installments of
Rsl,00O in years 7 through 9 and a final repayment of Rs800 in year 10.
With this repayment schedule, the annual net cash flow amounts to
Rs2,635 as of year 11, giving an IRR to farmer's equity of 40% compared to
the SAR estimate of over 50%. The lower IRR to equity is as a result of the
higher contribution farmers had to make, as they found that the sanctioned
loan did not cover the establishment cost of the plantations.
The financial rate of return before financing has been calculated
to be 24%, as opposed to a range of 24% to 40% estimated at appraisal. These
results are based  on  the  assumption  that  the  average   yield  at  full
development  to  be  achieved   by  smallholders amounts to 350 kg/ha of raw
nuts, i.e. only about 39% of the appraisal estimate. However, field
investigation suggests a certain range of possible yields in the various
states and financial returns have been calculated taking these variances
into consideration. Assumed yield ranges for the three states visited and
their corresponding IRRs are given below:
Yield Range            iBR
Raw Nuts kg/ha           (%)
Karnataka               300  -  600         21  -  37   (see Appendix 3)
Orissa                  300  -  450         21  -  30   (see Appendix 4)
Kerala                  150  -  350          5  -  24   (see Appendix 5)



- 20 -
The differences in yields indicate that cashew is sensitive to
proper  riintenance  operations,  i.e.  that  the  timely   application   of
fertilizer  and,  in  particular,  the  timely  spraying  of insecticides to
control tea mosquito has a strong impact on  production.  The  variances  in
yields experienced in the different states are a result of these factors and
suggest that there is considerable scope for further improvement through
better management practices and extension support. The above figures also
suggest that in order to break even, smallholders have to realize a yield of
just under 150 kg per ha of raw nuts.
An important factor affecting financial results of smallholders is
contract harvesting. The majority of farmers auction their crop at flowering
stage to contractors against cash payment at this time. As a rule,
information on actual quantities harvested is not communice-'ed to the
farmer. It is estimated that the amount the farmer actually receives is
about 35% - 50% of the value of raw nuts harvested by the contractor. On
the assumption that the farmer obtains 50% of the value of the harvested
crop, the IRR (before financing) is as low as 11% and becomes negative if
the value obtained is as low as 35%.
Cornorations. The financial results of the per ha model for the
state corporations indicate an IRR of 22%. As an example, financial results
for the Andhra Pradesh Forestry Corporation have been analysed in applying
the reduced gross revenues (adjusted to 1979 constant prices) against SA2
projections. The internal rate of return obtained amounts to 6%, as compared
to 18% as per  appraisal  estimate.  However,  the  net  cash  flow  remains
negative as of year 9 which would suggest that additional financing is
required which would render the operation non viable.
The reports of the corporations do not provide sufficient elements
to assess their overall financial situation. However, the analysis using the
estimate that only about 50% or less of the potential revenues are being
realized by the corporations, due to the auctioning system applied for
harvesting, shows that the corporations are clearly not reaching  the  level
of profits projected in SAR (Appendices 6-9).
This problem is particularly acute for the Orissa State Cashew
Development Corporation which faces a monopolistic market and its revenues,
due to the auctioning system, are estimated to be less than 50% of the
actual value of production, causing the corporation to incur large losses.
The Plantation Corporation of Kerala is in even worse position,
mainly due to the poor quality of land made available for the plantation
from which the corporation obtained only very poor yields, i.e. 6 tons from
500 ha of 6-7 year old trees in 1988. The plantation, established under the
project in Kerala, is clearly not viable and making considerable losses,
notwithstanding economies in labour and inputs.
C. Studies
Studv                 Puroose as Defined              Satu         Impact of Study
at Appraisal
Cashew Industry       A study for improving the   Completed    Still under
Study               organizational structure                     review by GOI.
of the industry.



TABLE 7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
AG6T       Section                    Description of Covenant                        Compliance
AROC        2.08         AROC to establish criteria for selecting cashew
plantations for improvement.                                                  Complied with.
4.02         AROC accounts audit/report due to IDA not later
than 4 months after end of each FY.                                           Complied with.
4.03         ARDC to ensure audit of participating Banks;
statement to IDA 4 months after end FY.                                       Complied with.
CRED        3.03         Study for improvement of original structure of               09/30Ot8         Complied with, but
cashew industry to be undertaken; copy to IDA.                                study not awarded
until September 1984.
3.05         Borrower furnish proposals to IOA for carrying              09/30/80          Complied with.
out cashew research (Part C. 1).
3.06         Borrower to establish project coordination                  09/30/80          Complied with, but
committee in its Ministry of Agriculture.                                     committee meetings
delayed.
PROJ        2.05         Each project state to provide subsidy to                                      Complied with.
farmers at amount specified (Part A. 1).
2.06A        Each project state to establish state project               09/30/80          Complied with.
coordination committee.
2.068        Each project state to appoint a project                     09/30/80          Complied with, but
director at the state level (SPCC).                                           frequent staff changes
were counterproductive.
3.02         Audited accounts/reports due to IDA not                                       Eventually complied with.
later than 9 months after end of each FY.                                     following considerable
-  AGEN of AP (Proj. Acc)                                                    delays.
- AGEN of Karnataka (Proj. Acc)
- AGEN of Kerala (Proj. Acc)
- AGEN of Orissa (Proj. Acc)
- AROC (now Nabard) (Overall)
- Participating Banks (Sep Loan Acc)
3.03         Project states to drati up their staff                                        Complied with.
training programmes for Part B. 2;
programmes to IOA.
3.05         Orissa to prepare plans for implementing                     12/31/80         Complied with, but
a oune reclamation pilot scheme (Part B. 3).                                  implementation  of the
plan was devastated by a
cyclone.
3.06         Kerala to furnish to IDA each June 30 an                                      Complied with.
annual road construction programme (Part B. 4).
3.07         Karnataka Cashew Development Corporation Ltd. to             12/31/80         Complied with.
employ finance officer to Institute management
accountinq system.



- 22 -
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT (CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A.   Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle            Planned       Revised        ... Final.
(Staff Weeks)
Through Appraisal                    -             -               68.7
Appraisal through                    -             -               59.7
Board Approval
Board Approval through               -             -                3.2
Effectiveness
Supervision                          -             -              120.2
Project Completion Report                   -              -        0.8
Total                                                             252.6
1/ Not final figure.



S.   mission
Perforwance Rat1no 3/
mission            nth/Year eo. t Persons              Days in Field      Speclal izatlon    Status     Trend    TIo. of Al
Iearesented _/                         Probei
Identification           June 1978
Preparation               October 1978
Appraisal                 October 1978
Post Appraisal - I        March 1979
Post Appraisal - 2        September 1979
Supervision               October 1980            2                 17                A.B              2          1         t
December 1980
FebMar 1981              1                14                 A               2          t         N
March 1982              4                 23               0,C.0             2          2       1.F.R
June 1982               1                  5                 E               -          -         -
Nar/Apr 1983            3                 29                B.C              2          2       ti.F,R
February 1984           2                 20                 C               2          2      H,F,R,C
March 1984              3                 30               8,C,F             2          2      1,F.R.C
September 1984          2                 20                 C               2          2      N,F.R.C
Sept/Oct 1985           2                 '0 jj             B.C             2           2       M,FF.C
April 1986              2                 13 I/             8.C              2          2       H.F.C
Septe,ber 1987          1                  7 I1              C              2           2       M.F.C,
J1/ EstImate. Missions combined supervision/appraisal of two or more projects.
1 A = Financial Analyst, B = Agricultural Economist, C = Agriculturist, 0 = Loan Officer, E   Road Engineer.
f = Finance & Management.
J/ Status 2 - Moderate Problems, Trend I i Improving. Trend 2 = Stationary.
l/  N = Managerial, F = Financial. A = Reporting, C - Completion date.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREOIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 9.    Production Costs: Plantations Established Under the Protect
(1 Ha Model)
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4          Year 5          Year 6          Year 7         Year 8          Year 9         Year 10 +
Small- State Small- State Small- State Small- State Small- State Small- State Small- State Small- State Small- State Small- State
holder COrp   holder Corp.  holder Corp.  holder Cori.  holder Corp.  holder Corp.  holder Corp.  holder Corp.  holder Corp.  holder Corp.
Labour (Id)
Land clearance
& development        20    30       -       -       -       -        -      -        -      -       -       -       -      -       -      -        -       -       -       -
Planting & gap
filling            5      5      I       I       -       -        -      -        -      -       -       -       -       -       -      -        -       -       -       -
Fertilizer
application         4      4      3       4       3       4         3     4         3     4       3       4       3       4       3      4        3       4       3       4
Plant protection    2        2      2       2       2       2        3      3        5      7       5       7      5       8       5      8        5       8       5       8
Weeding, mulching 10    10    1S           15      IS      15       15    IS        15    15       15      IS      15     15      15    15        15      15      15      15
Harvesting J/         -      -      -       -       -       -        1      1        3      3       7       7      9      10      11    12        12      13      14      IS
Miscellaneous         4      4      4       4       4       4        4      4        4      4       4       4       4      4       4      4        4       4       4       4
Total Labour
Days              45    55       25    26       24      25       26    27        30    33       34      37      36      41      38    43        39      44     41      46       1
Wage Rate
(Rs/ld) ZI        25    25       25    25       25      25       25    25        25    25       25      25      25      25     25    25        25      25      25      25
Labour
Cost (Rs)      1.125 1.375    625   650    600    625           650   675       750   825    850    925    900  1,025    950 1,075            975  1,100  1,025  1,150
Materials (Rs)
Plant material    100   100        20    20         -       -        -      -        -      -       -      -      -        -       -      -        -       -       -       -
Fertilizer 31    130   130    230   230    420    420             250   380       250   380    250    380    250    380    250   380             250    380    250    380
Crop
chemicals 4/    30    40         40    60       40      60       70    90        70    90      100    130    100    130    130   170           130    170    160    210
Miscellaneous       30    30       30    30       30      30        30    30        30    30      30      30      30      30      30    30        30      30      30      30
Materials cost   290   300    310   340    490    510             350   500       350   500    380    540    380    540    410   580             410    580    540    620
Total Cost
of Production  1.415 1.675    935   990  1,090  1.135   1.000 1,175    1,100 1,325  1,230  1,465  1,280  1,565  1,360 1,655   1,385  1,680  1,565  1.770
Labour as X
of Total Cost      80    82        67    67    55        55       65    57        68    62       69      63      70      66      70    65        70      65     66      65



Footnotes for Appendix I - Production Costs
.t/ Based on average yields in the three states visited, namely Kerala 300 kg/ha, Orissa 375 kg/ha and Karnataka 450 kg/ha.
./ Average daily wage rate for unskilled farm labour which ranges from Rsl2/day in Orissa to Rs45/day in Kerala.
J/ Assuming application as per recommendation during initial three years and 3/4 of recommended rate for corporations
and 1/2 of recomnended rate for smallholders as of Year 4.  Recommended rates are as follows:
'fear            Urea         SSP          HP            Total
(kglha - 150 trees per ha)             (kg/ha)
1                30          60           -              90
2                60          60          15             135
3               120          90          30             240
4*              150          90          30             270
4/ Assuming 1 1/2 rounds of spraying for corporations and I round of spraying for smallholders. Recowmendation for spraying: 3 rounds,
0.05X Endosulfan - 1.5 ml per litre of water. Use about 6 litres of solution to 10 year old tree, i.e. 6 x 1.5 x 150 ml/ha or
4 1 Endosultan for 3 rounds of spraying.
ui



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE lOProlected Smallhoider Income from New Plantations
(Rs)
.1/
Production Costs              Yield    Revenue   Net Benefit                        Financino                   Net Benefit
Year   Labour   Materials   Total   (kg/ha)                     before        Farmer    Subsidy  Loan (Debt    Total         after
Financin       Equity                Servicel               Financing
1     1.125        290       1,415       -          -         (1,415)        280        300          835        1,415         -
2       625        310         935       -          -           (935)         180       300          455          935         -
3       600        490       1.090       -          -         (1,090)        220        300          570        1,090         -
4       650        350       1.000       20         240         (760)        410         -           350          760         -
5        750        350       1.100      60         720         (380)          30         -          350          380         -
6       850         380       1.230     160       1,920          690           -          -         1640)        (640)         SO
7       900        380       1.280      235       2,820        1,540          -          -        (1.000)      (1,000)        540
8       950        410       1.360      270       3.240        1.880           -         -        (1.000)      (1.000)        B80
9       975        410        1.385     310       3.720        2.335           -         -        (1,000)      (1,000)      1.335
10    1.025        540       1.565      350       4.200        2.635          -          -          (800)        (800)      1.835
11-40  1.025        540       1.565      350       4.200        2.635          -          -           -            -         2.635
IRR = 24X                          IRR on farmer s equity   401
It For details see Appendix 1.



INlA
CASHEEWUT PROJECT
{CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 11.   Variances In Proiected Smaliholder Income from New Plantations - Karnataka
(Rs)
Year       Lw I       Hioih Costs I/   Low Yield   Hioh Yield         OW       Hjia      Low Met   High met
Production                      ...... ... (kg/ha) ....    Revenue   Revenue   Benefit   Benefit
1        1,415         1,415                                                    -      (1.415)   (1.415)
2           935          935               -            -            -          -         (935)     (935)
3         1,090        1,090               -            -            -          -      (1,090)   (1.090)
4         1.000        1,025               17           34           204        408       (796)     (617)
5         1,100        1,150              52           103           624      1,236       (476)       86
6         1.205        1,355              138          274         1.656      3,288        451     1.933
7         1.255        1,430             202           402         2.424     4.824       1,169     3.394
8         1,310        1,560             232           462         2,784      5,544      1,474     3,984
9         1.335        1,535             267           530         3,204      6,360      1,869     4,825
10-40       1,515        1,815              300          600         3,600      7,200     2,085      5,385
IRR a 21X    IRR = 37X
/f  Inputs are assumed to remain constant, variance in production costs as a result of lowerlhigher labour input for harvesting.



CASNEWNUT PROJECT
(CREOIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 12.    Variances in Prolected Smaliholder Income from New Plantations - Orissa
Low Production 1/  Nleh  Costs LI Low Yield            Hiqh Yield       Low Revenue    High Revenue    Low Net Benefit   High Net Benefit
(Rs)              (Rs)            (kg/ha)           (kg/ha)          (Rs)             (Is)               (Rs)                (as)
1                1.415               1,415              -                 -              -                 -               (1.415)            (1.415)
2                   93S                 935             -                 -              -                 -                 (935)              (935)
3                1.090                1,090             -                 -              -                 -               (1,090)            (1,090)
4                 1,000               1,000            17                26             204               312                (796)              (688)
S                 1,100               1.125            52                77             624               924                (476)              (201)
6                 1,205               1,280           138               206           1.656            2,472                  451              1.192
7                1,255                1,355           202               303           2.424            3,636                1,169              2,281
8                 1.310               1,435           232               348           2,784            4.176                1,474              2.741
9                 1.335               1,485           267               400           3,204            4.800                1,969              3,315                    OD
10-40               1.515               1,665           300               450           3,600            5,400                2.085              3,735
IRR - 21X    IRR = 301
LI Inputs are assumed to remain constant, variance in production costs as a result of lower/higher labour inputs for harvesting.



1 OLA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 13.         Variances In Proiected Smal1holder Income from New Plantations - Kerala
rar            Low Production 1/  High  Costs 1/   Low Yield           High Yield      Low Revenue    High Revenue         Net Beneit         Net Benefit
(Rs)              IRs)            (kg/ha)           (kg/ha)          (Rs)              (Rs)              (Rs)               (Rs)
1                1,415               1,415              -                 -              -                 -               (1,415)            (1.415)
2                   935                 935             -                 -              -                 -                 (935)              (935)
3                1.090                1.090             -                 -              -                 -               (1l090)            (1,090)
4                   988               1.000             9                20             108               240                (880)              (760)
5                 1,075               1,100            26                60             312               720                (763)              (380)
6                 1,130               1.230            67               160             804             1,920                (326)               690                 '0
7                1,155               1,280            101              235            1,212            2.820                   57              1,540
8                1.210               1.360            116               270           1,392            3,240                  182              1,880
9                1.210                1.385           133               310           1,596            3,720                  386             2,335
10-40               1,365               1,565           150               350           1,800            4,200                  435              2,635
[RR   5 SS    IRR - 24S
1/  Inputs are assumed to remain constant, variance In production costs due to lower/higher labour Inputs for harvesting.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-lN)
TABLE 14.           Proiected State Corporations Income from New Plantations
(Rs)
~11
Year                  Production Costs                Yield         Revenue          Net Benefit                Total Cost          Revenue Reduceo        Net
Labour      Materials      Total        (kg/ha)                      Before Financing         Without Harvesting        by 50  Due to     Benefit
Auctioning
1           1.375          300         1,675           -               -              (1,675)                    1,675                                 (1.675)
2             650          340           990            -              -                (990)                      990                                    (990)
3             625          510         1.135           -               -              (1,135)                    1,135                     -           (1.135)
4             675          500         1.175          20              240               (935)                    1,150                    120          (1,030)
5             825          500         1,325          65              780               (545)                    1,250                    390             (860)       0
6             925          540         1,465         170           2,040                 575                     1,290                  1,020             (270)
7           1,025          540         1.565         250           3,000               1,435                     1,315                 1,500               185
8           1.075          580         1.655         290           3,480               1.825                     1,355                 1,740               385
9           1.100          580         1,680         335           4,020               2,340                     1,355                 2,010               655
10-40         1.150          620         1,770         375           4,500               2,730                     1.395                 2,250               855
IRR = 22X                                                        IRR = 9X
J/ For details see Appendix 1.



tIHIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 15.           Variances in Proiected Corporation Income from New Plantations - Karnataka
Year           Low Production IJ  High  Costs 1/   Low Yield           High Yield      Low Revenue    High Revenue    Low Net Benefit   High Net Benefit
(Rs)              (Rs)            (kg/ha)          (kglha)           (Rs)              (Rs)              (Rs)                (Rs)
1                1.675               1,675              ^                 -              -                 -               (1,675)           (1,675)
2                   990                 900             -                 -              -                 -                 (990)              (990)
3                 1,135               1.135             -                 -              -                 -               (1,135)            (1.135)
4                 1,175               1,225            16                32             192               384                (983)              (841)
5                 1,300               1,375            52               104             624             1,248                (676)              (127)
6                 1.440               1,565           136               272           1,632            3,264                  192              1.699
7                 1,515              1,715            200               400           2,400            4,800                  885              3,085
8                 1,605               1.830           232               464           2,784            5,568                1,179              3,738
9                 1.605               1,880           268               536           3.216            6,432                1.611              4,552
10-40               1,695               1,995           300               600           3.600             7,200               1,905              5.205
IRR = 17X    IRR = 331
t(  Inputs are assumed to remain constant, variance in production costs as a result of lowerthigher labour inputs for harvesting.



CASHEWUWT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 16.            Variances in Protected Corporation Income from New Plantations - Orissa
Year:          Low Production 1/  Hiah  Costs IJ   Low Yield           High Yield      Low  Revenue    Hiah Revenue    Low Net Benefit   Hiah Net Benefit
(Rs)              (Rs)            (kg/ha)           (kg/ha)          (Rs)              (Rs)              IRs)                (Rs)
1                 1.675               1,675             -                 -              -                 -               11.675)            11.675)
2                   990                 900             -                 -               -                -                  (990)             (990)
3                 1.135               1.135             -                 -              -                 -               (1.135)            (1,135)
4                 1,175               1.175            16                24             192               288                (983)              (887)
5                 1,300               1.350            52                78             624               936                 (676)             (414)
6                 1,440               1.490           136               204           1.632             2.448                  192               958
7                1,515               1.615            200               300           2.400            3.600                  885              1.985
8                 1,605               1.705           232               348           2,784             4.176               1.179              2.471
9                 1.605               1.755           268               402           3.216             4,824               1.611              3.069
10-40               1,695               1.845           300               450           3,600             5.400               1.905              3.555
IRR = 17X    IRR = 272
1,/ Inputs are assumed to remain constant, variance in production costs due to lower/higher labour inputs for harvesting.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 17.            Variances in Projected Corporation Income from New Plantations - Kerala
Year            Low Production I/  High Costs I/   Low Yield             High Yield       Low Revenue    High Revenue    Low Net Benefit   High Net Benefit
(Rs)               (Rs)            (kg/ha)           (kg/ha)           (Rs)              (Rs)               (Rs)                 (Rs)
1                 1,675                1,675              -                 -                                                  (1.675)            (1.675)
2                   990                  990              -                 -               -                 -                  (990)              (990)
3                 1,135                1,t35              -                 -               -                 -                (1.135)            (1,135)
4                 1.165                1.175              8                19               96               228               (1,069)              (947)
5                 1,275                1.325             26                60              312               720                 (963)              (605)
6                 1,365                1,465             68               158              816             1.896                 (549)               431
7                 1.415                1,540            100               233            1,200            2,796                  (215)             1,256
8                 1.480                1.630            116               270            1,392             3,240                  (88)             1.610
9                 1.480                1.745            134               312            1,608             3.744                  128              1.999
10-40               1,545                1.745            150               350            1,800             4,200                  255              2.455
IRR = 0.73X    IRR = 21X
I/ Inputs are assumed to remain constant, variance in production costs as a result of lower/higher labour inputs for harvesting.



-34 -
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 18.      Economic Prices for Fertilizers 1/
Urea (any origin) bagged, FOB N.W. Europe              141
+ Freight and insurance                           38
CIF Bombay                                        179      1,725 2/
+ Port handling and storage                                  100
+ Transport and wholesale margin 3J/                         228
* Transport and retail margin 4/                              179
Import parity price                                      2,232
2,230 (rounded)
Single super phosphate 5/ FOB, US Gulf                  55
+ Freight and insurance                              41
CIF Bombay                                           96         924 V/
+ Port handling and storage                                     100
+ Transport and wholesale margin a/                             148
+ Transport and retail margin  4/                               113
Import parity price                                      1,285
Muriate of Potash                                       87
+ Freight and insurance                              41
CIF Bombay                                          128       1,232  Z/
+ Port handling and storage                                     100
+ Transport and wholesale margin i/                             179
+ Transport and retail margin 4/                                1R
Import parity price                                      1,649
1,650 (rounded)
1/ Expressed in 1982 constant prices.
2/ Converted at exchange rate USS1 = Rs = 9.628.
i/ Assumed 400 km transport by rail and 10% wholesale margin.
4/ 50 km transport and 7.5% retail margin.
.5/ Price derived from price for TSP.



- 35 -
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 19. Price Summary for Economic Analysis 1/
Economic
98?
Raw Nuts (Rs/t)
All States                                   7,215
Fertilizer (Rs/t)
Urea                                         2,230
SSP                                          1,285
M/P                                          1,650
Pesticide (Rs/1) 
Farmgate                                        71
Farm Labour (Rs/labour davy                     15
I/  Economic prices for traded commodities (cashew and fertilizer) have been
deflated to 1982 constant values and an estimated standard conversion
factor for India of 0.8 has been applied.
/  Financial price to Endosulfan, adjusted by local taxes (10%) to arrive
at economic price.



IMA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 20.        Economic Rate of Return to the Proiect
(Rs million)
Year          Production Costs        Capital and Operating Costs    Research, Study        Orissa Pilot Proiect b        Total      Value of          Net
SM4           SC            5               SC          and Training           Kerala Feeder Roads         Costs     Production       Benefits
1            2.2            2.3           0.6            0.9               0.1                       0.3                  6.4           -            (6.4)
2            6.8            8.1           3.6             4.8               0.6                       1.5                25.4           -            (25.4)
3           11.2           10.8           4.9             6.3               0.8                       1.9                35 9           -            (35.9)
4           15.7           12.9           5.7             7.7               1.0                       2.3                45.3           0.6          (44.7)
5           19.9           16.4           4.5             6 0               0.8                       1.8                49.4           3.7          (45.7)
6           24.6           20.0           7.5            10.0               1.3                       3 1                66.5          12.0          (54.5)
7           27.8           21.3           4.3             5.7              0.7                        1.7                61.5          27.4          (34.1)
8           30.8           24.0           8.1            10.8               1.4                       3.3                 78.4         46.3          (32.1)
9           31.2           24.8           6.0             8.0               1.0                        -                  71.0         66.5           (4.5)
10          32.9           26.2           6.0             8.0               1.0                        -                 74.1          88.6           14.5
11          33.9           27.2           6.0             8.0               1.0                        -                 76.1         111.0           34.9
12          35.3           28.2           6.0             8.0               1.0                        -                 78.5         128.5           50.0
13          36.2           28.6           6.0             8.0               1.0                        -                 79.8         141.7          61.9
14          36.9           28.9           6.0             8.0               1.0                        -                 80.8         150.6          69.8
1S          37.4           29.2           6.0             8.0               1.0                        -                 81.6         155.8          74.2
16          37.7           29.2           6.0             8.0               1.0                        -                 81.9         158 4          76.5
17          37.8           29.3           6.0            8.0                1.0                        -                 82.1         159.6          77.5
18          37.8           29.3           6.0             8.0               1.0                        -                 82.1         159.6          77.5
19          37.8           29.3           6.0            8.0               1.0                         -                 82.1         159.6          77.5
20-40        37.8           29.3           6.0             8.0               1.0                        -                 82.1         159.6           77.5
ERR: 13%



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE  21.  Economic Rate of Return to Smaliholder Component
(Rs million)
Year      Production Costs         Capital and Operating Costs           Total      Production       Value of Production       Net Benefits
(t)
1              2.2                          0.6                          2.8             -                                       (2.8)
2               6.8                         3.6                         10.4             -                   -                  (10.4)
3              11.2                         4.9                         16.1             -                   -                  (16.1)
4              15.7                         5.7                         21.4           48                   0.3                 (21.1)
5              19.9                         4.5                         24.4          255                   1.8                 (22.6)
6              24.6                         7.5                         32.1          832                   6.0                 (26.1)
7             27.8                          4.3                         32.1        1,917                  13.8                 (18.3)
8             30.8                          8.1                         38.9        3.345                  24.1                 (14.8)
9              31.2                         6.0                         37.2        4,991                  36.0                  (1.2)
10              32.9                         6.0                         38.9        6,823                  49.2                  10.3
11              33.9                         6.0                         39.9        8,701                  62.8                  22.9
12              35.3                         6.0                         41.3       10.297                  74.3                  33.0
13              36.2                         6.0                         42.2       11,550                  83.3                  41.1
14              36.9                         6.0                        42.9        12.371                  89.3                  46.4
15              37.4                         6.0                         43.4       12.861                  92.8                  49.4
16             37.7                          6.0                        43.7        13,136                  94.8                  51.1
17             37.8                          6.0                        43.8        13.258                  95.7                  51.9
18              37.8                         6.0                        43.8        13,258                  95.7                  51.9
19              37.8                         6.0                        43.8        13,258                  95.7                  51.9
20-40             37.8                          6.0                        43.8        13,258                 95.7                  51.9
ERR = 16X



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-lN)
TABLE 22.    Economic Rate of Return to Corporation Component
(Rs million)
Year     Production Costs       Capital and Operating Costs      Total     Production      Value of Production    Net Benefits
(t)
l             2.3                       0.9                      3.2           -                  -                 (3.2)
2             8.1                       4.8                     12.9           -                  -                (12.9)
3            10.8                       6.3                     17.1            -                 -                (17.1)
4            12.9                       7.7                     20.6          42                0.3                (20.3)
5            16.4                       6.0                     22.4         259                 1.9               (20.5)
6            20.0                      10.0                     30.0         838                6.0                (24.0)
7            21.3                      5.7                      27.0       1.882                13.6              (13.4)
8            24.0                      10.8                     34.8       3,074               22.2               (12.6)
9            24.8                       8.0                     32.8       4,228                30.5               (2.3)
10            26.2                      8.0                      34.2       5,466               39.4                  5.2
11            27.2                      8.0                      35.2       6,681               48.2                 13.0
12            28.2                      8.0                      36.2       7.513               54.2                 18.0
13            28.6                      8.0                      36.6       8,091               58.4                21.8
14            28.9                      8.0                      36.9       8,504               61.4                24.5
15            29.2                      8.0                      37.2       8,728               63.0                25.8
16            29.2                      8.0                      37.2       8,818               63.6                26.4
17            29.3                      8.0                      37.3       8.865               64.0                 26.7
18            29.3                      8.0                      37.3       8,865               64.0                26.7
19            29.3                      8.0                      37.3       8,865               64.0                26.7
20-40           29.3                       8.0                     37.3       8,865                64.0                26.7
ERR - 11l



CASHEWNUT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1012-IN)
TABLE 23.  Selected cashew Production and Price Statistics
9i61-9i70        1971-1980        1984/1985       1985/1906       198611987        1987/1988
Area under cashew ('000 ha)                                245              380              S10              510             576             637
Production of raw nuts ('000 t)                            147               162             222              222             246             260
Average yield per ha (kg)                                  600              426              435              435             427             408
Export of kernels ('000 t)                                  52               51              t31              +33              39              32
Price of kernels exported from India (Rs/kg)              6.44            19.45              n.a.             n.a.          88.16          80.66
Import of raw nuts ('000 t)                                156              117               28               44              46              26
Average price of imported raw nuts .J  (Rs/kg)            1.1              2.35            11.45            15.10           16.00          13.82
Local producer price (Rs/kg)                              n.a.             n.a.              n.a.             n.a.          13.70          12.00
Average world market price for kernel  I/ (USSIkg)  1.17                   3.00             7.90             8.25            7.00           6.85
Source:  Agricultural Situation in India, Directorate of Economics and Statistics, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, "OA.
Directorate of Cashew Development, ROA.
Cashew Study. Indonesia, FAO/IC Report 169/89 IF - INS 68.
Mission Estimates.
.L/ Quotations for 1984/85 and 1985/86 based on information of raw nut exports from Tanzania.
/   Based on price quotations of W450 grade for 1961-78 and W320 grade from 1978 onwards.



