Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2437-IN
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 10, 1980
Agriculture D Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         =     Rs 8.40 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AAO       -   Assistant Agricultural Officer
ADA       -   Assistant Director of Agriculture
AP        -   Andhra Pradesh
APFDC     -   Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation
ARDC      -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CB        -   Commercial Bank
CCI       -   Cashew Corporation of India
CNSL      -   Cashewnut Shell Liquid
CPCRI     -   Central Plantation Crops Research Institute
FA        -   Field Assistant
GOAP      -   Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOKar     -   Government of Karnataka
GOKer     -   Government of Kerala
GOI       -   Government of India
GOO       -   Government of Orissa
ICAR      -   Indian Council for Agricultural Research
KCDC      -   Karnataka Cashew Development Corporation
KFDC      -   Karnataka Forest Development Corporation
LDB       -   Land Development Bank
PCK       -   Plantation Corporation of Kerala
RBI       -   Reserve Bank of India
SMS       -   Subject Matter Specialist
T&V       -   Training and Visit Extension System
VEW       -   Village Extension Worker
FISCAL YEAR
GOI and State Governments -   April 1 - March 30
ARDC                       -   July 1 - June 30
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report are
based on the projected exchange rate during the project period.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE SECTOR ...........................................          1
General ...........    .........................      1
The Indian Cashew Industry .....      ............    1
Cashew Trees and Products .....      .............    2
Areas and Production ...........     ............     3
Government Production Programs .............          3
Cashew Research and Status of Technology ...         4
Raw Nut Procurement.                                 4
Processing.                                          5
institutions Serving the Cashew Industry ...          6
lI. PROJECT AREA              ..                                      7
A. Project States.                                              7
B. Project Area.                                                8
Location and Topography.                              8
Climate and Soils.                                   8
Agriculture                                           9
Holding Size and Land Tenure.                        9
Infrastructure .10
Inputs .10
Extension .11
Credit .11
III. THE PROJECT .12
Project Genesis .12
Similar Bank Group Operations in India               12
Project Summary ...............      . ...           13
Detailed Features .13
Environmental Aspects .17
Project Phasing .18
IV.   COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENTS .18
Cost Estimates .18
Financing .19
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited India in
September/October 1978, consisting of Mr. G. Stern and Ms. J. Stockard (IDA),
and Messrs. J.G. Ohler, T.P. Burgess and L.A. Newell (Consultants) and
Mr. R. N. Kaul (ARDC) and on results of follow up visits by Messrs. G. Stern
and J. G. Ohler in March 1979 and by Messrs. G. Stern, J. C. Goldbrenner and
Ms. J. Stockard in September/October 1979.
This document his a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed *ithout World fank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents
Page No.
Procurement ...............   .. ...............        20
Disbursements ..............    .. ..............       22
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................             22
Cashew Development by Corporations    ...               22
Extension and Cashew Units for Smallholders             24
Training    ...... .                                    25
Credit Operations ..........................            26
Other Project Components ..................     .       27
Project Management and Coordination ........            28
Reporting Requirements and Evaluation ......            29
Accounts and Audit ........... .. ............          29
VI.   CASHEWNUT PRODUCTION, MARKET AND PRICES           ..............    29
Yields and Production .......... .. ..........          29
World Raw Nut Production ........ .. .........          30
Cashew Kernel Trade and Prices          .............   30
Kernel Market and Price Prospects ..........            31
Indian Raw Nut Price Projections.                       31
VII.   FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS ......       ..........................       32
A.   Financial Models . .............................. .           32
B.   Financial Results ...........          ....................   33
VIII.   BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION .....................              35
Benefits ................   ..     .................    35
Economic Evaluation ........... ..        ....          36
Project Beneficiaries ...............                   37
Project Risks ....... . .  ......................... .  38
IX.   RECOMNENDATIONS.  ......................................            38



- 111 -
Table of Contents
Schedule A - Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
Annex I - Text Tables
Table 1.1    Raw Nut Imports and Kernel Exports
Table 1.2    Area and Production of Cashewnuts in India
Table 2.1    Selected Data of Project States
Table 3.1    Staff and Equipment for Cashew Units
Table 3.2    List of Kerala Roads to be Improved
Table 6.1    Raw Cashewnut Production in the Main Producing Countries
Table 6.2    Exports of Cashewnut Kernels from Processing Countries
Table 6.3    Imports of Cashewnut Kernels by Principal Consuming Countries
Table 6.4    Cashewnut Kernel Prices
Table 6.5    Price Relationship Between Processing Mix of Cashew Kernels
and 320 Wholes
Table 6.6    Financial Price Projections
Annex 2 - Project Costs
Table 1      Summary of Project Costs
Table 2      Phasing of Project Costs
Table 3.1    Kerala - Smallholder Component Cost Estimate
Table 3.2    Karnataka - Smallholder Component Cost Estimate
Table 3.3    Andhra Pradesh - Smallholder Component Cost Estimate
Table 3.4    Orissa - Smallholder Component Cost Estimate
Table 4.1    Kerala - State Corporation Component Cost Estimate
Table 4.2    Karnataka - State Corporation Component Cost Estimate
Table 4.3    Andhra Pradesh - State Corporation Component Cost Estimate
Table 4.4    Orissa - State Corporation Component Cost Estimate
Table 5.1    Kerala - State Corporation Staffing Pattern
Table 5.2    Karnataka - State Corporation Staffing Pattern
Table 5.3    Andhra Pradesh - State Corporation Staffing Pattern
Table 5.4    Orissa - State Corporation Staffing Pattern
Table 6      Training Expenses
Table 7      Research Component Cost Estimate
Annex 3 - Schedule of Disbursement
Annex 4 - Financial Analysis
Table 1      Smallholder Component:  Projected Farmer Income From New
Plantations
Table 2      Production Costs:  New Plantations
Table 3      Smallholder Component:  Projected Farmer Income from Improvement
of Existing Plantations
Table 4      Production Costs:  Improvement of Existing Plantations
Table 5      Plantation Corporation of Kerala:  Cash Flow Projections and
Financial Rate of Return



- iv -
Table of Contents
Table 6      Plantation Corporation of Kerala:  Income Statement Projection
Table 7      Plantation Corporation of Kerala:  Gross Revenues, Production
Costs, Deferred Costs
Table 8      Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation:  Cash Flow
Projections and Financial Rate of Return
Table 9      Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation:  Income Statement
Projection
Table 10     Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation:  Gross Revenues,
Production Costs, Deferred Costs
Annex 5 - Economic Analysis
Table 1      Economic Rate of Return to the Project
Table 2      Economic Rate of Return to the Smallholder Component
Table 3      Economic Rate of Return to State Corporations Component
Table 4      Projected Incremental Production from the Project
Table 5      Annual Implementation of Cashew Development
Table 6      Price Summary for Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 6 - Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
List of Charts
Chart No. WB 19981 - Project Organization Chart
Chart No. WB 19982 - Organization of Extension Service and Cashew Units
Andhra Pradesh
Chart No. WB 19982b - Organization of Extension Service and Cashew Units
Kerala
Chart No. WB 19983 - Organization of Extension Services and Cashew Units
Karnataka and Orissa
Chart No. WB 19984 - Model Organization Chart for Cashew Corporations
Chart No. WB 21066 - Alternative Model Organization Chart for Cashew
Development by Plantation Corporation of Kerala
and Andhra Pradesh Forest Corporation
Chart No. WE 20066 - Implementation Schedule of Main Project Activities
List of Maps
IBRD 14193R1 - Cashewnut Project



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
General
1.01      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy.  It
contributes 45% of the GNP, provides about 70% of the country's employment
and is the basis for almost 60% of its export earnings. Most of the 160
million ha cultivable land in India is devoted to foodgrains, pulses and
oilseeds, but industrial crops such as cotton, jute and tobacco, plantation
crops such as tea, coffee, rubber, coconuts and cashewnuts, and a large range
of spices and horticultural crops are important in some states and make a
sizeable contribution to the Indian economy.
1,02      During the last decade, Government of India's (GOI) development
plans have emphasized agriculture, particularly foodgrain production, by
=increasing use of irrigation, fertilizers, plant protection and good seeds,
backed by improved extension and research services. Although there have
been several record crops and there are comfortable foodgrain reserves in
the country at present, overall foodgrain production has only increased by
2.3% per annum over the last 15 years, barely keeping up with population
growth. Consequently, GOI is giving even higher priority to agriculture
in its Draft Sixth Five-Year Plan than in earlier plans. Main emphasis is
again on foodgrain production, but GOI is also according importance to crops
such as cashewnuts, which generate export earnings and require high employ-
ment levels.
The Indian Cashew Industry
1.03      The cashew industry is of considerable importance to the Indian
economy as sources of foreign exchange, employment and farmers' income.
cashew trees were introduced from Brazil by the Portuguese in the 16th
century to prevent soil erosion and are now grown on about 400,000 ha
in India, mostly by smallholders. Cashew products which are traded are
cashew kernels, mainly consumed as roasted and salted nuts (97% of total
traded value) and cashewnut shell liquid (CNSL), a phenol used mainly
in manufacture of friction materials (3% of total traded value). Cashew
apples and testa (para 1.08) are other by-products.
1.04      International trade in cashews is a recent development.  India's
kerntel exports grew from 50 tons in 1925 to 20,000 tons in 1941 and reached
their peak at 66,000 tons in 1972. The value of cashew exports has averaged
US$100 million over the last five years and the crop has ranked third or
f     -utl in value amonig agricultural commodity exports during the past two
~ .sm-o.he processing industry employs about 150,000 laborers, mostly



- 2 -
1.05      India pioneered cashewnut processing (extraction of kernels and
CNSL from raw nuts) and, up to the mid-1960s, virtually monopolized the world
cashew trade. At that time, India accounted for 90-95% of the kernel trade
(Table 6.2) but only for about 25-30% of raw nut production and Indian proces-
sors would import from 70% to 80% of their raw nut requirements (Table 1.1)
from East Africa. During the 1960s, East Africans began to develop their own
processing facilities and have been supported by two Bank Group projects (Loan
No. 1014-TA and Credit No. 801-TA). Partly because of growth of processing
abroad and partly because of raw nut procurement problems that have occurred
in East Africa, nut imports into India have fallen from an average 160,000
tons per year over the 1965-75 decade (Table 1.1) to only 20,000 tons in 1978.
Local cashew production has increased, but not sufficiently to compensate for
loss of imports. Consequently, 1978 kernel exports were less than 30,000
tons. Compared to average exports of 55,000 tons kernels over the 1965-75
period, this represents a loss of almost US$100 million in export revenue and
about 10 million labor days of employment in the processing industry.
1.06      GOI is determined to restore cashew exports at least to the former
level. With further development of processing facilities abroad, raw nut
imports would remain small -- below 50,000 tons per year. Consequently, GOI
and states with cashew growing areas have decided to boost local production
as quickly as possible, to compensate for the loss of imported nuts. The
project would make a substantial contribution to achieving those objectives.
Cashew Trees and Products
1.07      Cashew trees are hardy and tolerate most conditions except frost
and impeded drainage. In India, they grow largely in coastal areas, on
laterites, shallow soils and sands where cashews provide better returns than
alternative land use, though best yields are obtained on deep sandy loams.
Similarly, cashews tolerate drought, but yield best when rainfall exceeds
1,000 mm per year. Dry weather during flowering and harvest are prerequi-
sites for good yields. Depending on growing conditions and care given to the
plants, cashews start bearing in three to six years and reach full production
in ten to twenty years. Trees flower in November/December and nuts are
harvested between March and May. Each nut forms at the end of a swollen
fruit stalk, the apple, which drops to the ground on maturity. The nuts are
detached from apples, sold almost immediately and are then sundried in cement
yards for two to three days. At this stage, nuts are known as raw nuts and
consist of kernels (25-30%), testa, a thin brown skin covering each kernel
(2%), shell (40-50%), and CNSL (20-25%) contained in the honeycomb structure
of the shell. When properly dried and stored, raw nuts will keep for 12 to
18 months, but as a rule, processing (para 1.17) which starts with the harvest
is completed in 3 to 6 months.
1.08      As already indicated (para 1.03) kernel and CNSL are the traded
cashew products. The highly perishable cashew apple is used as fresh fruit
in some areas and, in Goa, is used to make "Feni", a locally popular alcoholic
beverage. A pilot scheme has been planned for the Kerala Agricultural Devel-
opment Project (Credit No. 680-IN) to explore the economics of other possible
industrial uses of cashew apples. The testa contains tannin and there is
an extracting plant in Kerala. Cashewnut shells serve as fuel in processing



- 3 -
factories and surpluses are sold. On the whole, the value of by-products is
negligible when compared to that of kernels.
Areas and Production
1.09      Cashews grow in most coastal states, from Maharashtra on the west
coast to West Bengal on the east coast (see map). It is a minor crop except
in North Kerala, which accounts for at least half of India's production.
There are a few plantations, mostly owned by state government departments,
and most cashews are grown by smallholders in small clumps or in hedgerows
or as backyard trees. Assessment of cashew areas and yields are, therefore,
difficult and estimates (Table 1.2) are subject to wide margins of error.
Production data is more readily assessable. Calculations based on raw nut
imports and kernel exports (both accurately recorded), indicate that local
raw nut supplies to processors have increased over the last ten years from
50,000 tons (5 years moving average) to 100,000 tons (Table 1.1). Commercial
and government sources estimate domestic consumption at about 40,000 tons and
total raw nut production at 140,000 tons. Production fluctuates with weather
conditions, severity of pest attack, and cashew prices. High price levels of
the last three years have induced more thorough harvesting and, therefore,
higher production. Pest attack, particularly by Tea Mosquito (Helopeltis
antonii) is reported to reduce production by at least 30% in an average year
and by more, when infestation is severe. Control measures exist but are
applied only on a small scale. This project would help to introduce large
scale pest control measures.
Government Production Programs
1.10      GOI and state government support of the industry was initially
confined to research and credit programs to expand cashew areas. In 1966,
GOI established the Cashew Council and Cashew Directorate (para 1.21) to
prepare plans for GOI finance to help the cashew industry. Since then,
OI has provided about Rs 800 million, mainly to expand production. The
first programs explored and demonstrated improved practices, particularly
pest control. More recent programs included Rs 200 million GOI equity for
establishing cashew plantation corporations and Rs 600 million to provide
Rs 300/ha subsidy for planting cashews by smallholders and Rs 500/ha for
planting by corporations.
1.11      The subsidy program has succeeded in getting cashew trees into
the ground, particularly in Kerala where planting of 35,000 ha by small-
holders over the last three years has been reported. The steep rise of nut
price also helped to persuade farmers to plant cashews, but the subsidy played
an important part and would need to continue to encourage further large-scale
planting. However, the subsidy program by itself has not led to adoption of
improved cultivation practices, which would require a Rs 2,800-3,600/ha invest-
ment, and the impact of recent planting on production would be relatively
small. The project, therefore, would aim to combine cashew area expansion
with use of improved technology.



- 4 -
1.12      As a result of GOI offer of equity, a cashew development corpora-
tion has been established in Karnataka (para 5.03) which would become one
of the project implementing agencies. Other GOI programs included encourage-
ment of vegetative propagation, which has been moderately successful in Orissa
where several hundred gardeners have undergone successful training in side
grafting, and establishment of progeny seed orchards. All these programs have
laid the foundations for this project. As a result of recent changes in
financing arrangements of many GOI schemes, GOI no longer contributes to
the equity of state corporations. However, financing for the other schemes
is scheduled to continue during the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1978-83), but with
participating states meeting half the cost of the schemes.
Cashew Research and Status of Technology
1.13      Until recently in India and elsewhere, cashews have been treated
more or less as wild trees. There was little research on which to base
cultural recommendations and the only cultural treatment was slashing of
weeds to facilitate harvest. The Indian Council for Agricultural Research
(ICAR) initiated cashew research in 1951, which now forms part of the All
India Coordinated Spices and Cashew Improvement Project that also caters for
research of seven other commodities. Cashew work is carried out on two sub-
stations of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) and at
five other substations operated by universities in different states (see map).
Because of the increasing importance of the crop, ICAR is planning to inten-
sify cashew research efforts and to elevate cashew research to a separate
project.
1.14      Main emphasis of research has been on identification of high yield-
ing plant types, pest control, fertilizer use and vegetative propagation.
Some work has also been done on cashew breeding and introduction of germ
plasm from abroad. As a result, there is now a package of practices includ-
ing fertilizer recommendations, control of major pests and use of seed from
selected mother trees. The package, allied to reasonable care of plantations
by way of careful planting, soil conservation and weed control, should in-
crease yields from two to fourfold. There is also evidence that the package
would double yields of young and reasonably well cared for existing planta-
tions. More research is needed on plant spacing, identifying vegetative
propagation methods suitable for widescale field use, identifying suitable
clonal material for vegetative propagation, fertilizer recommendations for
different soil types, and, in the longer run, on breeding of high kernel
content nuts. The project would strengthen and expand research facilities
to allow execution of a suitable research program (para 3.14).
Raw Nut Procurement
1.15      Until 1970, each processor procured his own raw nut supply, both
imported and local. In that year, GOI established the Cashew Corporation
of India (CCI) as sole importer of raw nuts. Distribution to processors
is based on export performance in the years preceding CCI establishment.
The procedure works smoothly, but it has frozen the structure of the pro-
cessing industry in its 1970 form and has discriminated against processors
in new cashew areas. Until 1976, local nuts in all states were procured



- 5 -
by processors' agents through a series of middlemen. Farmers either sold
directly to traders or to preharvest contractors. Raw nut prices were set
by processors, based on forward New York kernel prices, and have risen
steeply from about Rs 2.50 per kg in 1975 to Rs 6 per kg in 1978.
1.16      This type of marketing appears to work smoothly, and continues in
all states except Kerala. There, the Government of Kerala (GOKer) became
concerned by the large outflow of nuts to neighboring states where wage rates
and processing costs are lower. To ensure that Kerala nuts are processed in
Kerala, as well as to ensure that growers receive a fair price, GOKer intro-
duced, in 1976, state monopoly procurement of raw nuts. Since then, nuts have
been purchased by the Kerala State Cooperative Marketing Federation, which
employs marketing cooperatives and primary cooperatives as buying agencies.
Distribution to processors is based on the CCI model, according to previous
factory performance. Initially the operation was reasonably successful.
However, in 1978, GOKer set too high a procurement price for raw nuts based
on a temporary kernel price peak. The high price benefitted growers and
encouraged new planting, but caused financial loss to GOKer and problems in
the processing industry (para 1.19). Consequently, in 1979, GOKer used a
lower procurement price, with the result that a considerable proportion of the
crop bypassed the State purchasing organization. Future procurement policy
in Kerala is uncertain at this time and a study of the cashew industry to be
financed by the project (para 3.16) would examine most suitable raw nut
procurement policies.
Processing
1.17      There is considerable excess processing capacity in India.  About
260 factories employing 150,000 people and having 450,000 tons raw nuts
capacity per annum are in Kerala alone, mostly in Quilon. There are also
factories wherever cashews are grown -- some of them little more than cottage
industries. On the whole, the Kerala industry is the most efficient in India
and handles 80-90% of kernel exports. In the factories, nuts are roasted
and cracked. Then kernels are separated from shells, peeled, dried and
graded and finally packed into tins containing 25 pounds of kernels. Tins
are filled with carbon dioxide gas, sealed and placed into cartons for ship-
ment. Capital investment is small and all operations are manual. Processing
results are good. Outturn of high value whole nuts averages 80% (Table 1.1)
compared to 40-60% of mechanized processing abroad.
1.18      Some factories extract CNSL, but the process causes some kernel
breakage and scorching and lowers kernel value. Consequently, there is a
trade-off, depending on relative CNSL and kernel prices. CNSL extraction
reached a peak in 1964/65 at 15,000 tons and declined to 3,000 tons in 1977.
Since then, CNSL price has strengthened and processors may again step up CNSL
production.
1.19      The processing industry, built up by the private sector, must have
been reasonably profitable to have developed its large excess capacity. There
is no industry organization other than several local processors' associations,
mainly for wage rate bargaining, and there has been no attempt to regulate



- 6 -
processing capacity. While most of the industry consists of well-established
and reputable business houses, there were also speculators who have opened
factories and then abandoned them, causing instability, particularly among
the labor force. Therefore, GOKer established in 1969 the Kerala State
Cashew Development Corporation which has taken over 34 "sick" factories,
employs 34,000 people and is the largest processor in India. The Corporation
has become a pacesetter for enlightened labor policies. In 1978, private
processors did not buy local raw nuts because the price was too high for pro-
fitable factory operation. Consequently, the Corporation operated 99 factories
temporarily lent to it by the owners, in addition to its own factories, and
was the sole processor in Kerala. Quality of its product has always been
satisfactory and despite higher operating costs than the private sector, the
Corporation had, up to 1978, shown a small overall profit. However, its 1978
operations, carried out on instructions by GOKer, caused heavy losses which
may take several years to recoup.
1.20      State government involvement in marketing and processing has
benefitted growers and factory labor in the short term. However, it has led
to strained relations between GOKer and the private processing sector, dis-
ruption of processing and exports, and financial losses by government market-
ing and processing agencies. The industry study (para 3.16) would examine
the role of various institutions, including state governments, to determine
the degree of involvement that would most help the industry.
Institutions Serving the Cashew Industry
1.21      Cashew crop development is the responsibility of central and state
ministries of agriculture, while processing and trading is handled by commerce
or commerce and industries ministries. Agencies that deal with cashew produc-
tion as part of their portfolio include central and state agricultural depart-
ments for crop development and ICAR and universities for research. Apart from
Kerala state marketing and processing organizations, agencies which serve the
cashew industry specifically include:
(a) Indian Cashew Development Council was established in 1966
under the GOI Ministry of Agriculture, and has representation
from all sectors of the industry and cashew growing states.
It meets about once a year to discuss the industry's prob-
lems, advise GOI on cashew policy and review proposals for
cashew development programs to be financed by GOI;
(b) Directorate of Cashew Development was established at the
same time as the Council. Its small staff of three senior
and ten junior technical officers provides the Council's
Secretariat, prepares and monitors GOI cashew development
schemes, collects cashew statistics, does some publicity
work and provides some linkage between cashew states and
cashew institutions;
(c) CCI was established in 1970 under the GOI Ministry of Com-
merce as a subsidiary of the State Trading Corporation, to



import raw cashews. It has recently entered kernel exports
on a small scale and is providing part of its Rs 60 million
accumulated profits for cashew development schemes; and
(d) Cashew Export Promotion Council also operates under the
GOI Ministry of Commerce, is partly financed by it and
partly by an export cess (annual budget about Rs 600,000
(US$70,000)) and has 24 members partly nominated by GOI
and state governments and partly elected by processors.
Activities include attendance at overseas fairs, collec-
tion and dissemination of trade statistics, publication
of a quarterly journal and mediation in case of complaints
by overseas customers.
1.22      While the numerous institutions dealing with cashews may have been
adequate in the past, amalgamation into a single organization such as a com-
modity board may be advisable. Such boards already exist for tea, coffee,
rubber and other plantation crops and deal with all aspects of the commodi-
ties including research and extension. On the whole, such boards have served
large-scale plantations well, but have been less successful in serving small-
holders. The proposed industry study to be financed by the project would
examine the need for possible institutional reorganization of the industry,
with particular emphasis on improving efficiency and competitiveness of the
industry, i,nterstate coordination of both production and processing, meeting
the needs of the predominantly smallholder plantation sector, and cashew trade
promotion.
II. PROJECT AREA
A. Project States
2.01      Of the four participating states, Kerala and Karnataka are situated
in southwest India and Andhra Pradesh (AP) and Orissa are on the east coast.
They vary in size, with AP (276,814 sq km) ranking fifth in India while Kerala
(38,864 sq km) is one of the smallest states. Per capita income is low in all
four states. In AP (Rs 1,003 per year 1974/75 current prices), income just
exceeds the India average (Rs 989), while in the other three states, average
income is below that level. Orissa per capita income (Rs 707) ranks 19 out of
the 23 states in India. Kerala is remarkable in several respects; it has the
highest population density in India (549 per sq km), the highest literacy rate
(60%) and is the only state in which tropical tree crops play a dominant part
in the economy. In all four states, the population is mostly rural, ranging
from 92% in Orissa to 76% in Karnataka, and suffers from pervasive unemployment.
2.02      Agriculture dominates the economies of the four states, accounting
for from 50% to 66% of total income and from about 50% to 85% of employment.
Foodgrains constitute the most important crop group in all states, occupying
from 76% of the sown area in AP to 30% in Kerala, where cassava, often grown



-8-
in association with tree crops, takes the place of coarse grains of rainfed
areas in other states. Pulses and oilseeds rank next in importance in three
states. Other prominent crops are cotton and sugarcane in Karnataka and
cotton, castor and tobacco in drier, non-irrigated parts of Andhra Pradesh.
In Kerala, coconut plantations occupy almost the same land area as paddy,
and other important perennial crops include rubber, pepper, coffee, tea and
cashewnuts. In fact, Kerala is the only state in India in which cashewnuts
play a significant part in the economy. In Karnataka and AP, cf.shews are
important locally, in parts of the proposed project areas. A summary of
selected data about the four states is shown in Table 2.1.
B. Project Area
Location and Topography
2.03      The project would cover four districts of North Kerala 1/, the
adjoining South Kannara district of Karnataka, ten districts of East AP 2/
and seven districts of East Orissa 3/ (see map). In Kerala and Karnataka, the
project area is situated in the undulating midlands, with elevation from sea
level to about 200 m, lying between the flat coastal strip and the "Western
Ghat" highlands.  Land slopes are between 30 and 150 in areas to be planted
by private farmers but corporation land is mostly on steep hillsides with
slopes up to 30 . In AP and Orissa, the project area covers the coastal
plains and adjoining inland areas. Topography is flat at the coast, undula-
ting with slopes of 2  to 10  inland and includes some isolated steep
hills which form part of the land to be developed by state corporations.
Climate and Soils
2.04      Rainfall patterns in all project areas are suitable for cashews,
with adequate rains to support the crop and with dry weather during flowering
and harvest. In the two western states, average rainfall is high -- from
3,000 to 3,800 mm per annum in the various project districts, falling mostly
between May and November. Heavy rains, particularly during the June-September
period, cause erosion problems on sloping fields. In project districts of
eastern states, rainfall is much lower, ranging between 1,000 and 1,350 mm
per annum, falling from June through October. There is little rainfall
in any of the areas between December and April.
2.05      There is little variation in temperatures on the east coast, with
maximum temperatures between 27 0C and 33 0C and minimum temperatures between
1/   Cannanore, Kozhikode, Mallapuram, Palghat.
2/   Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari,
Khamman, Khrishna, Prakasam, Nellore, Chittoor.
3/   Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar, Balasore, Dhenkanal, Cuttack, Puri, Ganjam.



-9 -
210C and 26 0C. The warmest weather is from March to May and the coolest
period occurs during the height of the rains in July. In the west, seasonal
and diurnal variations are higher.  Maximum temperatures range from 370C in
June to 28 0C in January and February, and minimum temperatures from 29 0C in
June to 170 C in January and February. Temperatures in all areas are suit-
able for cashews.
2.06      There are ample suitable soils in all project areas consisting of
a range of lateritic soils on the west coast and sands, sandy loams and red
soils in the east. Careful selection of soils, including subsoil testing,
would be needed, particularly in laterite areas, to exclude lateritic rock,
eroded laterites or laterites with a clay matrix or with less than 30% soil
between gravel. Subsoil testing would also be needed to exclude compacted
subsoils and to ensure sufficient soil depth, particularly on steep hills.
2.07      Cashew yields depend largely on soil moisture available to trees.
It is fortunate, therefore, that shallower and more gravelly soils are situated
in western project states, where high and well distributed rainfall compensates
for low soil moisture holding capacity. Most project soils vary from neutral
to slightly acid, which suits cashews. Soil nutrient status is generally low,
but trials in India and elsewhere have shown that deficiencies can be corrected
by fertilizer application.
Agriculture
2.08      The agricultural pattern of project areas closely resembles that of
project states (para 2.02). Cultivation of the land area varies from about
60% in Kerala through 45% to 50% in eastern states to 30% in Karnataka. There,
about 30% is covered by forests, partly degraded, and some of the forest land
would be available for cashew cultivation. In all areas, paddy is the single
most important crop, comprising from 30% of cultivated area of project dis-
tricts in Kerala to about 60% in AP and Orissa. In Kerala and to a lesser
extent Karnataka, a range of tree crops covers about half the cultivated area.
Of these, coconut is the most important, but at least 80% of the states' cashew
production comes from the project area. In the two eastern states, major
irrigation schemes with emphasis on rice production dominate coastal areas.
Dryland crops are oilseeds, millets and pulses, and in specific areas include
kenaf, tobacco, chillies and a range of vegetable crops. In Orissa, upland
paddy, some very low yielding (4 quintals/ha), comprises much of the rice pro-
duction.  Most of the existing cashew plantations of the two states, small-
holder owned in AP and departmentally owned in Orissa, are in the project area
and show that conditions are suitable for the crop. Much of the projected
cashew plantation area, even in densely cultivated Kerala, is at present
covered by coarse grass and shrubs, partly as a result of past land ownership
(para 2.10) and partly because the land is not well suited for crops other
than cashews.
Holding Size and Land Tenure
2.09      Farms are small throughout the project area, particularly in the
intensively farmed coastal strip of the two west coast states and on irriga-
ted paddyland at the east coast. There, most holdings are less than 0.5 ha.



- 10 -
Farms are bigger on the less productive laterite and rainfed areas, which
would be used for cashews. An indication of farm size distribution in
project districts is shown below:
Percentage of Farmers Owning Less Than:
Project Area             One ha      Two ha      Five ha
Kerala                      77          90           98
Karnataka                   47          75           95
Andhra Pradesh              62          80           96
Orissa                      51          84           97
2.10      Most farmland is owner operated.  One feature of the project
area is the recent distribution of state land to landless people or marginal
farmers, resulting from land reform activities. The project would help many
of the new farmers towards establishing a satisfactory means of livelihood.
Other participating farmers would include a range of income groups. The
minority would be reasonably well-established farmers wishing to intensify
farming on part of their land. Mostly, however, participants would be sub-
sistence farmers, perhaps with a small tree grove and paddy patch on the west
coast, or with a small and low productivity upland holding in eastern states,
who need to supplement farm income and presently do so with off-farm employment.
Infrastructure
2.11      The road network in the project area is satisfactory in most
localities except for parts of Kerala where the feeder road system requires
improvement in the project area. The project districts are linked to major
cities by the Trivandrum to Bombay national highway and main railway line
in the west and the Madras to Calcutta highway and railway line in the east.
The density of road development ranges from 2 to 3 sq km land area per km of
roads. The standard of roads differs, with about half of the roads on the
west coast bitumenized, compared to about 25-30% surfaced on the east coast.
However, the difference in standards would not affect the project, since main
transport requirements would be during the harvest, which falls during the dry
season when non-bitumer,ized roads would be adequate.
Inputs
2.12      Supply of fertilizer and pesticides inputs is satisfactory in all
areas. In all project districts, distribution is handled by village primary
cooperative societies as well as by private distributors. The number of
cooperative sales points ranges from 100 to 500 per district. In Kerala and
Orissa, the cooperatives have recently been reorganized and strengthened to
improve their commercial activities, including fertilizer and pesticides
distribution. In AP, the primary village cooperatives to date have not
entirely met farmers' input requirements, and the private trade seems to be
concentrated in larger marketing centers. Consequently, the Department of
Agriculture has an inputs distribution organization with about 100 distribu-
tion points in the project area, which handles about one-third of the trade.
Back-up storage depots by main distributors are also satisfactory and timely
and adequate inputs supply to project farmers is reasonably assured.



Extension
2.13      Because cashews are a minor crop in most areas, comparatively little
attention has so far been devoted to it by extension services, except in the
Kerala project cistricts. Even there, most of the efforts of the limited
manpower that could be spared had to be used for supervising the cashew demon-
stration and planting subsidy programs (para 1.10). The agricultural depart-
ments of Kerala and AP and the Horticultural Department of Karnataka have been
handling smallholder cashew development. In Orissa, the Soil Conservation
Directorate of the Department of Agriculture has been managing departmental
plantations. While not set up as an extension agency, its technical staff has
supervised quite successfully the first state sponsored smallholder planting
programs.
2.14      In Orissa and Karnataka, Training and Visit (T&V) 1/ extension
services established with the help of two IDA projects, Orissa Agricultural
Development Project (Credit No. 682-IN) and Composite Agricultural Extension
Project (Credit No. 826-IN), would provide extension support for cashew devel-
opment. The Orissa Soil Conservation Service and Karnataka Horticultural
Department would provide additional services beyond the scope of extension
staff, such as soil selection, orchard layout work and support for credit
operations (para 5.09). Both GOKer and the Government of Andhra Pradesh
(GOAP) have reasonably well staffed extension services oriented mostly on a
scheme basis, e.g., high yielding rice scheme, coconut improvement scheme,
cotton scheme, etc. The staff consists of about 800 graduates and 4,000
diploma trained demonstrators in Kerala and of about 2,900 graduates and 3,600
sub or field assistants in Andhra Pradesh. Both states are actively consider-
ing GOI or IDA assistance for improving and strengthening their services.
While a project for that purpose has recently been appraised in Kerala, which
should lead to early introduction of T&V extension there, legal and financial
problems in AP make the prospect for early change of extension systems there
more doubtful.
Credit
2.15      The four types of institutional banking systems are well represented
in project districts. They comprise credit cooperatives for short and medium
term credit, cooperative land development banks (LDB) for long-term credit and
rural banks and commercial banks (CB) for all types of loans. All of them,
but LDB and CB in particular, have been involved in IDA supported lending
through participation in Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) schemes. All LDB and most of the leading CB have established technical
cells and have employed agricultural graduates to support their rural lending
programs. LDB and CB would be the project credit institutions.
2.16      The strengths and weaknesses of the institutions vary from state
to state. Thus, LDB is particularly strong in AP, reasonably so in Kerala
and Orissa, but suffers from poor loan recovery in the Karnataka project area.
1/   Described in "Agricultural Extension,"  Daniel Benor and James Q.
Harrison, World Bank, May 1977.



- 12 -
GOKar is taking measures to improve recoveries. Commercial banks are most
numerous in Karnataka (350 branches in the project district) and least numer-
ous in Orissa (only 10 branches in some project districts) where the Reserve
Bank of India (RBI) is licensing considerable branch extension. In addition,
agricultural credit facilities in Orissa are being strengthened under a bank-
ing plan designed by ARDC as part of the Orissa Agricultural Development
Project (Credit No. 682-IN).
2.17      There were 11 ARDC refinanced cashew schemes in four states under
implementation at project appraisal, covering about 12,000 ha, for which
Rs 35 million loan finance had been approved by LDB and CB. These schemes
are partly financed by the Second ARDC Project (Credit No. 715-IN) and will
continue to be supported by the Third ARDC project (Credit No. 947-IN). Some
of the schemes are new, but for those under implementation for some time,
farmers' response has been disappointing. At September 30, 1978, only
Rs 1.2 million had been disbursed by banks out of the Rs 13.9 million target.
Reasons for slow progress are insufficient promotion of the new (and to
farmers unfamiliar) type of lending; inadequate inducement by way of subsidies
for farmers to undertake this type of long-term lending; insufficient exten-
sion service support; long distance of many farmers from long-term credit
agencies; and burdensome loan application procedures. The project would
include measures to overcome these difficulties (para 5.14).
III. THE PROJECT
Project Genesis
3.01      Decline of cashew exports and of employment in the cashew industry
has worried both GOI and GOKer for some time. GOI, therefore, considered
that a project approach with Bank group assistance would be needed to supple-
ment ongoing programs (para 1.10), and to accelerate local cashew production.
Preliminary discussions between GOI officials and Bank Group staff took place
in May 1977 and project preparation started in the fall of 1977. The project
was prepared by the four participating states with guidance from GOI Ministry
of Agriculture Project Preparation and Monitoring Cell and from staff of the
World Bank New Delhi Office, and is based on reports from each of the four
states completed in October 1978.
Similar Bank Group Operations in India
3.02      This would be the fourth Bank Group project in India which would
deal with tree crops. Two of the ongoing projects, Himachal Pradesh Apple
Processing and Marketing (Credit No. 456-IN) and Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture
(Credit No. 806-IN) deal with processing and marketing. The Kerala Agricul-
tural Development Project (Credit No. 680-IN) is a tree crop production
project and, therefore, is similar to the proposed cashew project. Its
objectives are mainly to increase coconut and pepper production, but it also
includes a small cashewnut production component. The project got off to a
slow start, but has since made satisfactory progress.



- 13 -
Project Summary
3.03      The project would help to finance over five years a cashew produc-
tion program in Kerala, Karnataka, AP and Orissa, together with necessary
supporting facilities and services. The production program would be financed
mainly by institutional credit channeled through ARDC, while other components
would be financed directly through state governments and GOI. The following
are project components:
(a) a 61,275 ha cashew planting and improvement program,
of which 35,000 ha would be developed by private farmers
and 26,275 ha would be implemented by state cashew, forest
development or plantation corporations;
(b) staff, buildings, roads, vehicles, equipment for the
corporations;
(c) staff, vehicles, equipment and operating costs of sup-
porting services for the private farmers program and
funds for training departmental and corporation staff;
(d) a 500 ha pilot scheme to determine appropriate cashew
planting practices on coastal dune land in Orissa;
(e) strengthening cashew research by improving and expanding
the central cashew research station and three regional sub-
stations, and by establishing one new regional substation;
(f) a program to improve about 200 km feeder roads in Kerala; and
(g) a study for improving the organizational structure of the
industry.
Detailed Features
3.04      The Production Program.  The distribution of the proposed five
year planting program between smallholders and corporations and among the
four states is shown below (ha):
Corporations Program   Smallholders Program          Total Program
New    Improve-         New    Improve-          New    Improve-
State   Planting  ment   Total Planting  ment   Total Planting  ments   Total
Kerala     2,275      -    2,275  10,000    -    10,000  12,275        -    12,275
Karnataka  2,500    500   3,000   7,500  2,500  10,000  10,000   3,000  13,000
Andhra
Pradesh  8,000    -      8,000   8,000  2,000  10,000  16,000   2,000  18,000
Orissa    10,500  2,500  13,000   5,000       -    5,000  15,500   2,500  18,000
Total   23,275  3,000  26,275  30,500  4,500  35,000  53,775   7,500  61,275



- 14 -
3.05      New Planting.  The project would finance distribution of plants,
fertilizers, pesticides and cash for labor needed for land preparation, soil
conservation, planting and maintaining plants for five years after planting
until returns exceed maintenance costs. Most plantings would be with seed-
lings derived from selected mother trees mostly situated in progeny orchards,
except in Orissa where there has been some success in vegetative propagation
(para 1.12). There, about half the planted area would be improved by in situ
side grafting from selected clonal material. In other project states field
scale vegetative propagation has not been successful to date, but recently
more determined efforts than before have been initiated to apply the Orissa
experience or to develop alternatives suitable for local conditions. With
ICAR coordinated research services also stepping up work on vegetative pro-
pagation (para 3.14) and with project training programs for the subject, the
chances are good that vegetative propagation would be more widely adopted
during the project period. Because identification of mother trees is fairly
recent and there has not been enough time for progeny field testing, part of
every field, even in Orissa, would still be planted with improved seedlings
to avoid possible poor performance by some clones. An added precaution would
be use of several clones in any field.
3.06      Improvement of Existing Plantations would involve similar invest-
ments to new planting, except that new plants would be needed only for filling
gaps in existing plantations. Plantations to be improved should be carefully
selected to avoid fields that would not respond adequately to treatment.
Assurances'were obtained that participating state governments and ARDC would
work out suitable selection criteria. The following are guidelines: planta-
tions should not be more than 10 years old with reasonably healthy (minimal
borer and gumnosis damage) trees, not too closely spaced (about 150 per ha on
laterites and about 100 per ha on deeper soils), so that tree canopies would
not touch each other. Soil must be suitable and solid laterite; compacted
subsoil or eroded soils should be avoided. There are however large areas of
departmentally owned cashew plantations in Karnataka and Orissa which do not
conform to the above criteria, and which the two State Governments are keen
to improve. Some of these plantations have been handed over to the cashew
corporations already, but the economics of investments in crop improvement
practices on such areas have not been established. In addition, the planta-
tions are mostly in small, scattered blocks (less than 100 ha each), on which
crop pilferage is difficult to control. The project would provide funds to
the two cashew corporations concerned for improving 1000 ha (500 ha in each
of the two states) to explore the management and economic feasibility of
improving this type of cashew plantation. The two implementing corporations
would maintain accurate records of costs and returns of the trial, which would
provide data on which decisions for future management of similar cashew areas
could be based.
3.07      Intercropping is not common in cashew fields.  Soils are generally
so poor that yields of intercrops are too low to give reasonable returns.
Nevertheless, a certain amount of subsistence cropping by small scale growers
is expected to take place. Corporations have not planned any intercropping,
which would require considerable supervision, does not seem financially
attract;ve and would distract attention from the main crop.



- 15 -
3.08      Pest Control particularly tea mosquito control, would give 30%
yield increase and would be handled by corporations and smallholders them-
selves.  Corporations guided by their technical specialists and cashew a
ory services would be able to use mechanized spraying equipment and would also
explore the feasibility of aerial spraying. Smallholders would be guided by
extension and special cashew services (para 3.09) and would use manual tree
sprayers. About 9,000 such sprayers would be sold to farmers on credit on
the assumption that one sprayer would serve the owner and at least three other
farmers on a hire or custom basis.
3.09      Smallholder Supporting Services.  To supplement extension services,
special cashew units, described in para 5.09, would be established in each
state. For these units, the project would finance cost of staff, vehicles,
operating costs, visual aids and other equipment as shown in Table 3.1. The
project would provide motor vehicles for headquarters, district and subject
matter specialist (SMS) staff, motorcycles for assistant agricultural officers
(AAO) and bicycles for field assistants (FA). Staff would be provided loans
by state governments to purchase motorcycles and bicycles and would receive
travel allowances. In addition, each special unit would have mechanical
sprayers, for emergency and demonstration use.
3.10      Subsidies.  To ensure satisfactory participation of farmers in the
project, the smallholder program would require a combination of intensive pro-
motion, skilled advisory and support services (para 3.09), improved lending
procedures'(para 5.14) and adequate inducements to participate. The latter
would be particularly important to overcome unsatisfactory response to ongoing
credit schemes for cashew development. Consequently, participating small-
holders would receive a 25% subsidy of the cost of new planting or Rs 900/ha,
whichever is less, that would be channeled through banks and would be payable
in three installments. For cashew improvement, participating smallholders
would receive a 25% subsidy of the cost, estimated to range from Rs 230/ha to
Rs 315/ha, and paid in two installments. Subsidies would total about Rs 25
million for the project. However, this would be offset by state revenues
obtained from raw nut purchase tax estimated at approximately Rs 15 million
annually from incremental production at full project development. Assurances
were obtained from state governments that adequate funds would be provided for
the subsidies, phased to coincide with planned project development. Similar
subsidies, some much higher, are available to tea, rubber and coffee growers
in India and are not uncommon in Bank Group assisted smallholder plantation
projects in other countries. Despite attractive financial returns from tree
crops, subsidies are often necessary to ensure large scale participation of
smallholders in such projects, as an inducement to compensate for the slow
maturity of the investment. In the case of cashews, there is further justi-
fication of subsidies, because of need to ensure additional raw material
supplies to the processing industry, to maintain jobs and export revenue.
3.11      Corporation Staff and Infrastructure.  The project would finance
incremental corporation management, supervisory and supporting staff, neces-
sary infrastructure, vehicles and equipment, and incremental operating and
maintenance costs. Infrastructure would include housing for most of the staff
except in Orissa where housing would be provided for one-third of the staff;
plantation offices and stores; essential plantation roads (roughly 1 km per



- 16 -
35 ha); and basic utilities. Motor vehicles would be purchased for head-
quarters staff and for plantation managers, and motorcycles for assistant
plantation managers. Each plantation (about 2,000 ha) would be supplied with
a truck, or, in AP and Kerala, tractors and trailers would be used. Details
are listed in Annex 2, Tables 4.1 to 5.4.
3.12      Corporation Land.  To facilitate effective management and to prevent
crop pilferage which is a serious problem for cashew plantations, the minimum
size block of land to be developed or improved by corporations would be 200
ha and at least two or three such blocks would be situated within a radius of
15 km from each other. Land transfer procedures, even from one government
department to another, can be time consuming. To prevent delays to project
implementation, at least half the land to be developed was transferred to par-
ticipating corporations before negotiations and, at negotiations, a timetable
was agreed for transfer of the remaining land.
3.13      Orissa Pilot Scheme.  There is a 1 km strip of shifting sand dune
land which runs at least 150 km along the Orissa coast -- an area of 15,000 ha.
At present, the land is useless and dunes encroach on adjoining farm lands.
Trials conducted by the Soil Conservation Service show that cashews, once
established, stabilize the land and thrive on it. Further work is needed to
identify the best method of cashew establishment. The project would finance
a 500 ha pilot scheme to be executed by the Soil Conservation Service, by
providing funds for planting and maintaining cashews and windbreaks during
the project period. Several different methods of establishing cashews would
be tried, to find methods for converting these presently useless dune areas
into commercially or economically viable cashew plantations. GOO would pre-
pare plans for implementing and for monitoring the scheme and assurances
were obtained that the plans would be furnished to IDA by December 31, 1980.
3.14      Research.  ICAR has drawn up a cashew research program along lines
discussed with the appraisal mission in November 1978. Initial suggestions
that the program could be implemented as part of the IDA supported National
Agricultural Research Project (Credit No. 855-IN) or alternatively be financed
from ICAR'S own budget resources proved impracticable and GOI, in October 1979,
requested inclusion of a research component in this project. While part of
the proposed program has long term objectives, its emphasis on developing
vegetative propagation methods and identification of suitable clonal material
for widespread use, as well as support to staff training programs, would be
important for the success of the project. The program comprises expansion of
existing CPCRI stations at Vittal and Shantigodu into a main cashew research
center, strengthening of existing regional substations in three states, and
establishment of a new regional substation in Karnataka. Financing would be
provided for incremental scientific and support staff and other incremental
recurrent costs; construction of laboratories, staff housing, training hostel
and farm sheds; purchase of vehicles, laboratory and field equipment; staff
training programs; and development and maintenance of a small area of cashew
plantations (Annex 2, Table 7). Research proposals costing about US$1 million
(before price contingencies) were discussed at negotiations. Assurances were
obtained that by September 30, 1980, GOI would furnish to IDA a detailed
proposal for carrying out the research. Implementation of the component would
begin only after agreement on such proposal.



- 17 -
3.15      Kerala Feeder Roads.  In the Kerala smallholder project area the
poor condition of feeder roads is a constraint to cashew development. There-
fore, a US$2 million road improvement program would be financed for the most
important feeder roads in the project area. Thirty-two roads, having a total
length of about 250 km have been selected jointly by GOKer staff and an IDA
engineer for the program out of which about 200 km would be improved (Table
3.2). The condition of these roads and therefore the work needed to improve
them varies from section to section. Some have stretches in good condition
which require little work, but their use may be constrained by lack of a
causeway or bridge or by a short impassable section. Thus the works would be
planned after detailed examination of each road and would vary from section
to section. Proposed works would include road shaping and widening, gravel
surfacing, improving side drains, construction of culverts, bridges and
causeways and in some cases short stretches of asphalt surfacing. In the
latter case necessary road shaping would be done in one season and asphalt
surfacing in the next. Assurances were obtained that a project road con-
struction program would be prepared each year by Government of Kerala road
engineers and furnished to IDA by June 30 each year, based on detailed study
of roads to be improved.
3.16      Cashew Industry Study.  Policy and institutional changes may be
needed to keep the Indian cashew industry competitive with increasing compe-
tition from abroad, and to deal with such problems as raw nut procurement,
interstate coordination of production and processing, and most suitable
institutions and policies for providing adequate research, advisory services
and product promotion for the industry. The study would be supervised by a
policy advisory committee set up by GOI Ministry of Agriculture and would be
conducted by suitably qualified local consultants, including universities or
other institutes. Guideline terms of reference were agreed with GOI at
negotiations and assurances were obtained that the study would commence by
September 30, 1980. The consultants would review the status of the industry,
examine cashew institutes and policies, establish costs and returns of raw
nut production, processing, kernel exports or local sales and would propose
changes of policy or institutional arrangements if necessary. The proposed
study would require about five work-years of consulting time and should be
completed by mid 1981. Assurances were obtained that the final report would
be made available to IDA.
Environmental Aspects
3.17      The project would have beneficial impact on the environment by
converting rough scrubland, some of it eroding as a result of uncontrolled
grazing, into tree plantations. Erosion control is an important part of the
project and funds for bunding and other measures would form part of farm
budgets for credit extension. The Orissa pilot scheme is an attempt to
stabilize shifting dunes causing damage to adjoining agricultural land by
conversion into cashew plantation.



- 18 -
Project Phasing
3.18       Implementation would start early in 1980 and all planting would be
completed by September 1984. The first year of the project would be needed
both by corporations and smallholders supporting services to appoint and
train staff. The following are planting/improvement projections:
Project Phasing
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      Total
Hectares        3,000   12,000   18,500   18,500    9,275   61,275
% of Total        5        20        30        30        15        100
No. of
Smallholders
Projected to
Participate   1,500    7,000   10,500   10,500    5,000   35,000
Supporting staff build up and procurement of vehicles and equipment for depart-
mental cashew units and for cashew research services would be completed during
the first three years of the project, and for Corporations over the project
period, phased to coincide with the planting program. Building and road con-
struction for corporations and Kerala feeder road construction would also be
phased to match the planting program, while the research station construction
program would be completed over three years. The cashew industry study would
be initiated during 1980 and should be completed by mid 1981. The 500 ha
Orissa pilot scheme would be implemented in 100 ha units annually.
IV. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost Estimates
4.01      Total costs are estimated at US$45.7 million equivalent of which
US$3.3 million or 8% would be foreign exchange costs and US$1.8 million would
be duties and taxes. Estimates are based on October 1979 prices. A 10%
physical contingency has been allowed for civil works and 5% for vehicles,
equipment and incremental operating costs. Price contingencies have been
applied at 10% for 1980, 7% annually from 1981 to 1983, and 5% for 1984.
Total contingencies amount to US$10.4 million or 23% of total cost. Detailed
costs are given in Annex 2 and are summarized below:



- 19 -
Summary Cost Estimates
-- Rs Million -----  ---- US$ Million ----  Foreign
Category               Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Smallholder Cashew
Planting/Improvement   86.1         9.6    95.7  10.2       1.1      11.3      10
Cashew Support Units
Staff Salaries            15.6        -      15.6   1.9      0.1       1.9
Vehicles/Equipment         4.5       0.3      4.8   0.5       -        0.6
Operating Expenses         5.2       0.3      5.5   0.6      0.1       0.7
Subtotal            25.3       0.6    25.9   3.0        0.2       3.2       6
State Corporations
Planting/Improvement    61.8         6.9    68.7   7.4       0.8       8.2
Staff Salaries            19.3        -      19.3   2.3       -        2.3
Civil Works               34.6       1.8    36.4   4.1       0.2       4.3
Vehicles/Equipment         8.2       0.4      8.6   1.0       -        1.0
Operating Expenses        12.3       0.6    12.9   1.5       0.1       1.6
Subtotal           136.2        9.7   145.9  16.3       1.1      17.4       6
Training                   0.5        -       0.5   0.1       -        0.1       -
Orissa Pilot Scheme        1.4       0.2      1.6   0.2       -        0.2      10
Kerala Feeder Roads       16.3       0.9    17.2   1.9       0.1       2.0       5
Research                   7.6       0.8      8.4   0.9      0.1       1.0      10
Cashew Industry Study    1.0          -       1.0   0.1       -        0.1       -
Base Cost Estimate       274.4      21.8   296.2  32.7       2.6      35.3       7
Physical Contingencies   7.0         0.2      7.2   0.9       -        0.9
Price Contingencies       74.4       5.8    80.2   8.8       0.7       9.5
Total Project Cost       355.8      27.8   383.6  42.4       3.3      45.7       7
Financing
4.02      The proposed IDA credit of US;22 million would be made to GOI
on standard terms and would meet about 50% of project costs net of duties
and taxes and 48% of total project costs. The balance would be met by GOI,
participating state governments, ARDC, participating growers and participat-
ing banks as shown on the following project financing plan:



- 20 -
Financing Plan
/a                             IDA    % of
Total  GOI/GOS-   ARDC    Banks  Growers  Amount  Total
-------------------- Rs Million -           -----
Smailholders            120.9    29.1       29.1      8.3    4.4       50.0    41
Corporations            190.3    70.7       40.3    11.3      -        68.0    36
Cashew Units             34.2      3.3       -        -       -        30.9    90
Training                  0.6      0.1       -        -        -        0.5    90
Orissa Pilot Scheme       2.0      0.2       -        -       -          1.8    90
Kerala Roads             23.7      2.3       -        -        -       21.4    90
Research                 10.6      1.1       -        -       -         9.5    90
Cashew Industry Study   1.3        -         -        -       -         1.3   100
Total             383.6   106.8       69.4   19.6       4.4      183.4    48
% of Total              100       28        18       5       1         48       -
/a   State Governments.
4.03      GOI would onlend US$13.7 million of the IDA credit to ARDC to refi-
nance cashew planting and improvement loans to farmers and to refinance loans
to corporations for similar programs and for infrastructure and initial opera-
ting costs. GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk for the finance onlent
to ARDC. Of the balance, GOI would use about US$1.3 million to implement the
research component and to conduct the Cashew Industry Study and would pass
US$7.0 million on to participating state governments to meet the cost of
cashew units, training, the Orissa pilot scheme, and Kerala feeder roads.
There would be no fixed allocation of the credit to any one of the partici-
pating states, although each state would initially target its spending and
prepare its budget according to project cost estimates. GOI would conduct
annual progress reviews which would include possible redirection of credit
proceeds between states or between smallholders and corporations, based on
past and prospective disbursements.
4.04      Retroactive financing to cover early project implementation costs
from December 1, 1979, up to US$200,000 has been included. This financing
would mainly cover expenditures for establishing cashew support units and
a small amount possibly for early lending to private borrowers. At the con-
clusion of the project period, there would still be a need for about Rs 100
million (US$11.9 million) of institutional credit, subsidies and equity par-
ticipation, to complete installments of the planting program initiated by
the project. Assurances were obtained from ARDC that adequate funds to
smallholders and participating corporations would be provided after the
conclusion of the project, to complete the project planting program.
Procurement
4.05       Civil works to be implemented under the corporations component
(US$4.3 million) would be carried out over scattered sites in four states
and be phased over four years. Contracts for such work would not attract
foreign bidders, and would be awarded after local competitive bidding, using



- 21 -
procedures of each state government, which are satisfactory to IDA. Feeder
roads in Kerala (US$2.0 million) would be constructed by force account under
procedures developed by GOI for its large rural road construction program
which are also satisfactory to IDA. Similarly, civil works under the
research component (US$0.3 million) and any minor civil works arising from
the Orissa pilot scheme would be scattered over a large area and would be
implemented departmentally phased over the project period under GOI and
state procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA.
4.06      About 32 motor vehicles (US$0.9 million) of various types would
be required by project units and corporations. They would be purchased in
small quantities over four years and would be widely spread in rural areas.
Adequate maintenance and availability of spare parts would be of paramount
importance, and this would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of
types already used by corporations and government departments. Thus, pro-
curement would be by local competitive bidding under existing government
procedures. Motorcycles and bicycles (US$0.08 million) would be purchased
by individual staff from loan funds provided by state governments.
4.07      Farmers drawing cashew planting or improvement loans (US$11.3
million) would purchase fertilizer and pesticides from local suppliers of
their choice. About 50% of the loan would be for labor and not subject to
procurement procedures. The corporations' planting and improvement programs
(US$8.2 million) and the Orissa pilot scheme (US$0.2 million) include purchase
of fertilizer (US$3 million) and pesticides (US$1 million) over the five year
project period. The balance consists of a small amount of consumable items
which would be procured by local bidding procedures, and of labor. About 60%
of India's fertilizer is manufactured locally and the balance is imported by
GOI, by international shopping. The price of fertilizers is controlled by GOI
and fertilizer distribution is also subject to GOI control. The corporations
and GOO, therefore, would procure fertilizer locally, under state government
procedures, which are satisfactory. Pesticide procurement would depend on
type of pest attack and would frequently have to be done at short notice by
local bidding procedures if time allows, or by prudent shopping in case of
sudden pest outbreaks. Equipment for the four corporations and four state
government departments (US$0.6 million) and for research (US$0.1 million)
would consist of numerous small items including office and laboratory equip-
ment, furniture and farm tools and would be procured by local competitive
bidding. The balance of the project cost (US$7.3 million) would cover operat-
ing costs and salaries of corporations, cashew units and research staff, and
training and study costs which would not involve procurement. All the above
figures exclude contingencies which amount to US$10.4 million.
4.08      Small, off-the-shelf items, costing less than US$10,000 and which
are required urgently for project execution, would be purchased by prudent
shopping through normal commercial channels. For all contracts for civil
works exceeding US$200,000 and for purchase of equipment and supplies exceed-
ing US$100,000, draft tender documents, proposals for advertising, bid eval-
uation, and award proposals would be sent to IDA for review before award.
Copies of such contracts would be sent to IDA immediately after award.



- 22 -
Assurances were obtained that procedures outlined in paras 4.05 through
4.08 would be observed.
Disbursements
4.09      Disbursements from the credit would cover:
(a)  55% of loans to private borrowers and state corporations;
(b)  90% of civil works costs not covered under (a) above;
(c)  90% of incremental staff, vehicles, equipment and operating
costs not covered under (a) above for cashew support units,
research and training cost;
(d)  90% of plantation expenses of the Orissa pilot scheme; and
(e)  100% of the cost of the cashew industry study.
4.10      Disbursements under item (e) and against expenditures under items
(b) and (c) for civil works exceeding Rs 300,000 and for all other expendi-
tures exceeding Rs 150,000 would be made against full documentation supplied
to IDA through GOI. Disbursement for item (a) would be made against certi-
fication by ARDC and for all other items against certificates of expenditure
submitted by implementing agencies including corporations and participating
state government departments. Supporting documents for these payments would
not be submitted to IDA, but would be retained by the implementing agency and
made available to IDA during the course of review missions. Certificates of
expenditure would be audited at least once every six months and a report
submitted to IDA promptly thereafter. The cost of land purchased for the
project would not qualify for disbursement of IDA funds. A schedule of
disbursements is shown in Annex 3.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Cashew Development by Corporations
5.01      Of the four proposed corporations to implement the large-scale
plantation component, one is a forest development corporation, the Andhra
Pradesh Forest Development Corporation (APFDC) and a second, the Karnataka
Cashew Development Corporation (KCDC), is an offshoot of a forest development
corporation, the Karnataka Forest Development Corporation (KFDC), shares a
chairman with it and, to date, receives administrative services from it.
Both APFDC and KCDC have close links to their state forest departments, while
the two other corporations participating in the project -- the Plantation
Corporation of Kerala (PCK) and the Orissa Cashew Plantation Corporation
(OCPC) -- have no departmental links. Those corporations with departmental
associations have a good source of experienced staff, but are vulnerable to



- 23 -
frequent staff changes, while the others may have initial staffing problems,
but can offer long-term careers to their staff.
5.02      PCK, established 16 years ago, is well managed and financially sound
and has installed effective financial reporting systems. Initially a rubber
enterprise, it is now diversifying into cashew and palm oil production and has
established separate divisions for these enterprises. It is implementing
1,740 ha cashew planting and 2,280 ha improvement of existing plantations
programs under the Kerala Agricultural Development Project (Credit No. 680-IN).
Implementation delays which have occurred were due to slow land allocation by
GOKer and were beyond PCK control. Performance by the Corporation under the
project has been satisfactory.
5.03      KCDC was established in 1978 and has undertaken only a small program
to date. The Corporation is planning to step up its activities when this proj-
ect commences and is also negotiating with ARDC for finance to improve depart-
mental plantations which it will own in the future. However, because of close
links with KFDC, it is likely to be modelled on the latter, so that a review
of KFDC management and activities are good guide to likely future performance
of KCDC. KFDC, established in 1971 and APFDC established in 1975, both have
been engaged mainly in eucalyptus and bamboo (for pulpwood) plantation work,
and to date have met planting targets. APFDC has already started a 10,000 ha
cashew development program, partly refinanced by ARDC and its cashew work is
handled by a cashew division. Staff of both corporations is competent, but
some, particularly technical staff, is seconded from the respective forest
departments and tends to look towards the departments for career development.
As plantations have not reached maturity, the Corporations are in a preopera-
tions stage and financial performance cannot yet be assessed. However, budget
control has been satisfactory, particularly in AP where costs so far have been
kept 30% below estimates. Accounting and reporting systems are modelled on
departmental procedures and could be improved to provide more management
information. APFDC is already improving its systems but those of KFDC and by
implication that means those of KCDC as well need to be remodelled. Assur-
ances were obtained that KCDC would employ a finance officer with adequate
experience for instituting a suitable management accounting and reporting
system. Both APFDC and KCDC are basically suitable project implementing
agencies. However, it would be important to ensure reasonable staff con-
tinuity, particularly in senior posts.
5.04      Orissa Cashew Development Corporation was established in January
1979. Authorized capital is Rs 50 million, to be subscribed by GOO. An
indicative staffing pattern is shown in Annex 2, Table 5.4.
5.05      Each corporation would operate groups of cashew blocks in several
parts of its state. The proposed model organization pattern for the corpora-
tions is based on a headquarters organization, 2,000 ha plantations, compris-
ing 200 ha blocks aggregated into 1,000 ha units (Chart 19984). Actual size
of plantations, units and blocks would depend on availability of suitable
cashew land in any contiguous area. Thus, plantation size could be from
1,000 to 4,000 ha cashews, but the size of any separate block of land operated



- 24 -
by a corporation under the project should not have less than 200 ha cashews.
Therefore, according to the proposed corporations' project planting plans
(para 3.04), the Orissa program (13,000 ha) would entail establishing about
seven plantations that for Andhra Pradesh (8,000 ha) about four, while those
for Karnataka (3,000 ha) and for Kerala (2,275 ha) would require only one or
two plantations each.
5.06      The chief executive of each of the four participating corporations
would be the managing director or general manager responsible to the corpora-
tion's board of directors. He would be assisted at headquarters by a chief
finance officer cum company secretary, senior personnel officer and executive
engineer, each heading a head office section. There would also be a chief
technical officer to provide overall technical guidance and in due course, a
marketing section. In Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, cashew development would be
carried out in each case by a cashew division under a senior manager who would
report to the general manager of the corporation. Both PCK and APFDC have
established such a division which is engaged in cashew development work.
Administrative and financial services would be provided by the corporations'
main offices in the first instance, but the cashew divisions in time may
develop their own headquarters services (Chart 21066). In the case of Orissa,
the corporation would have to build up its own headquarters staff, while in
Karnataka, KFDC would continue to assist KCDC until KCDC operations warrant
its own independent headquarters services.
5.07      Main center of field management would be each plantation, headed
by the plantation manager, who would report directly to the general manager.
He would have a strong accounts unit, administration staff, and civil works
supervisors. Plantations would be major purchasing and accounting centers,
while head office would design and supervise accounting and financial report-
ing systems, consolidate plantation accounts, and provide internal audit.
Plantation units would be supervised by assistant plantation managers, who
would be responsible for up to eight block supervisors. The latter would be
assisted by foremen each looking after 15-20 laborers. The organization
pattern is designed for groups of 200 ha blocks. Where blocks are larger,
say 1,000 ha, the number of block supervisors could be reduced.
Extension and Cashew Units for Smallholders
5.08      Success of the smallholder planting and improvement program would
require intensive promotion, advisory work and credit support and supervision
services. Because of close contact with farmers, existing extension services
would teach cashew cultivation methods and would play a key role in promotion
activities. In Karnataka and Orissa, extension services are organized on the
T&V system, which is very suitable for this project and in Kerala adoption
of the system, supported by a Bank Group project which has been appraised,
is imminent. Assurances were obtained that in Karnataka and Kerala, priority
for introducing the system would be given to project districts. GOAP is also
interested in the same system but faces a number of problems that make it
unlikely that T&V can be introduced there in the near future. Consequently
extension would be combined with other duties by the cashew units (para 5.09).



- 25 -
5.09      Cashew units would be established in each state to reinforce exten-
sion service project promotion and to perform tasks beyond the scope of exten-
sion services, including identification of project participants, selection of
suitable land (particularly important in laterites), laying out orchards,
assisting farmers with credit application formalities, supervising credit and
subsidy operations and providing cashew nursery services. In Kerala and
Andhra Pradesh, the units would be organized by the state agricultural depart-
ments (Charts 19982b and 19982). In Karnataka and Orissa, the Horticultural
Department and Soil Conservation Service respectively have been handling
cashew development and would establish the units (Chart 19983). In fact, in
Orissa, most of the staff of the cashew section of the Soil Conservation
service, to date mostly concerned with establishing and maintaining protective
plantations on government land, would be switched to provide services to
private farmers. There would be close liaison with the Department of Agri-
culture extension services at state headquarters and district level.
5.10      An officer of Additional or Joint Director rank would head the unit
in each project state. He would be supported at Headquarters by from one to
three Deputy Director rank officers, responsible for operations, finance and
administration, and credit and inputs. An assistant director would supervise
the district unit.  He would be helped by an assistant registrar of coopera-
tives for credit liaison purposes, financial and administrative staff and, in
Kerala, by a soil conservation officer.  The ADA would report to the senior
district officer of his department.  The ADA would supervise from two to three
AAO (or equivalent rank) except in Karnataka where there would be 35 Assistant
Horticultural Officers who would be the main field level staff.  In the other
three states each AAO would supervise seven to eight Field Assistants (FA)
(Village Extension Worker level staff). There would be roughly one FA per
200 farmers. In addition, there would be from one to three SMS cashew per
district (except in Orissa where due to the small program in each district,
one Assistant Soil Conservation Officer would cover two districts, supporting
existing soil conservation organization at the field level), and who would
give regular biweekly training to extension and cashew unit staff. There
would also be nursery supervisors (also VEW rank) who would be responsible
under the AAO for seed collection and supervision of nurseries. They would
be busy only for part of the year and would be used at other times to teach
selected farmers vegetative propagation or to support other field staff.
5.11      Special units would be needed at full strength only during the
planting phase which would cover the project period, and at lower strength
during the remaining time while the planting program is completed. Thereafter,
extension staff would provide adequate services to cashew farmers. Thus,
cashew unit staff would progressively move to other cashew development areas.
Training
5.12      Training would be required for extension, cashew unit field staff
and management and supervisory staff of corporations. Continuous training
of extension and cashew unit staff would be provided regularly by SMS, one
day every two weeks. Scientists from main cashew research center and the



- 26 -
cashew research section of the State Agricultural Universities would partici-
pate in the regular training program. Universities would also hold one to two
weeks courses for corporation and departmental project staff. Special courses
lasting at least one month each would be held at all research centers for
departmental, corporation staff and selected farmers to teach vegetative
propagation techniques. Once a core of experienced propagation staff has
been built up, similar training would be given in the field by encouraging
farmers or private nurserymen to attend regular training at departmental
nursery centers. Assurances were obtained that by September 30, 1980 each
state in collaboration with ICAR would draw up a project training program
which would be furnished to IDA for comments.
Credit Operations
5.13      Under a subsidiary loan agreement, GOI would onlend part of the
credit to ARDC for refinancing CB that would provide long-term credit to cor-
porations for plantation development, including cost of vehicles, equipment
and infrastructure and management costs and for similar refinancing LDB and
CB who would provide long-term credit for cashew development by private
farmers. ARDC would invite LDB 1/ and CB of each state to participate in the
smallholder lending program and GB to participate in lending to corporations.
To ensure adequate and suitable banking arrangements, ARDC has prepared a
draft banking plan for the project which was discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations. In consultation with governments and banks of participating
states the banking plan would be finalized. The plan includes, inter alia, a
clear definition of ARDC's role in project implementation and proposals for:
banking coverage of project areas; preparation, supervision and monitoring
of project schemes; improved lending procedures (para 5.14); rehabilitation
or development of banks and branches as needed; and proposals for staff
recruitment and training, if needed, by participating banks. Execution of
the subsidiary agreement between GOI and ARDC would be a condition of dis-
bursement of the credit components of the project. The agreement would
include, inter alia, the financial arrangements outlined in Schedule A.
5.14      ARDC would discuss with state governments measures to ease diffi-
culties (para 2.17) which discourage farmers from seeking loans for cashew
development -- mainly burdensome and lengthy procedures to provide security
to banks and long distances of many borrowers from banks. With respect to
collateral, measures to be explored could be use of charge on land rather
than mortgage, as already practiced in Orissa and under consideration by GOKar
and GOKer; state guarantee of loans also practiced in Orissa in special cases;
introduction of a passbook system which would obviate mortgages and which is
under consideration by several states; and reliance to some extent on crop
hypothecation for additional security, since the crop of a persistent defaulter
could be auctioned before harvest (a common method of marketing tree crops).
To speed up processing of loan applications Karnataka is experimenting with
1/   Called Cooperative Central Agricultural Development Bank in Andhra
Pradesh, and Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank in Kerala.



- 27 -
"camps" of all government staff involved in loan approval procedures to pro-
cess all outstanding applications in the area during the duration of the
camp. This procedure has evolved in Rajasthan, where it has proved suc-
cessful. To help farmers who live far from LDB, the Orissa LDB sends its
loan officers to block or village centers to conduct business including
loan application formalities and disbursement of loan funds. LDB of other
participating states seem willing to provide similar services in the project
areas.
5.15      Through participation in 37 projects, ARDC has ample experience of
Bank Group project execution 1/ and would coordinate execution of the credit
component for cashew development by corporations and by private borrowers.
Detailed examination of corporations' investment programs already carried oul:
by the appraisal mission should speed appraisal of loan applications by CB
and ARDC, but there have been cases of delay in approval of loans requested by
large scale borrowers. The reason for delays could be the need for each CB to
obtain sanction of its Board particularly when more than one CB is involved or
because documentation provided by the applicant is unsatisfactory. To avoid
such delays in this project, ARDC would assist the corporations in expediting
and simplifying procedures for processing loan applications. Lending terms
and conditions for smallholders and corporations, together accounting for
US$13.7 million or 62% of the IDA credit are outlined in Schedule A.
5.16      Interest charged to final borrowers would be 9.5% for small farmers 2/
and 10.5% for all other borrowers.  Inflation in India between 1976 and 1979
averaged 2.1% per annum. Although inflation accelerated considerably during
1979, the proposed interest rates are expected to remain positive in real
terms and compare favorably with real interest rates to ultimate borrowers in
other developing countries. Furthermore, the interest rates to be applied
under the project would be consistent with onlending rates for institutional
credit in other sectors of the Indian economy, and are already applied to all
long-term lending for agricultural purposes.
Other Project Components
5.17      Cashew Research.  The cashew research program would be planned and
coordinated by ICAR and would be implemented by an Associate Cashew Project
Coordinator, who would report to the Director of CPCRI. As already indicated
(para 1.13) cashew research, at present part of the All India Spices and
Cashew Research Project, would become a separate project under the overall
ICAR research program. The role of state agricultural universities, in
executing the research component of this project--specifically whether devel-
opment and supervision of new substations would be carried out by universities
1/   Detailed description of ARDC is given in the Staff Appraisal Report
of the Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Credit
Project. Report No. 2404a-In of June 21, 1979.
2/   Defined in Schedule A.



- 28 -
or by CPCRI directly--has not been finalized and would be contained in the
detailed proposals to be furnished to IDA by September 30, 1980 (para 3.14).
5.18      Feeder Roads.  Most construction including earthworks and gravel
surfacing would be undertaken by beneficiary committees already established
at block 1/ headquarters in the project area of Kerala, under procedures for
rural road construction, which are  satisfactory to IDA.   Day to day on-site
supervision would be given by the block engineer. More than 5,000 km rural
roads have been constructed and improved in Kerala by this procedure. Design
and overall supervision would be provided by the Kerala Public Works Depart-
ment which would also carry out asphalt surfacing work.
5.19      Cashew Industry Study.  The Industry Study would be commissioned
and supervised by an advisory committee in GOI Ministry of Agriculture
including project state representatives (para 3.16).
Project Management and Coordination
5.20      GOI Role.  GOI has designated a senior officer responsible to the
Secretary for Agriculture to monitor and coordinate implementation of this
project. The officer would be provided with adequate secretarial staff and
would act as convenor for the GOI project coordinating committee (para. 5.21);
and would consolidate annual work programs and project reports (para 5.23)
to be submitted by each project agency. The project officer would be main-
tained throughout the project period.
5.21      To coordinate the many agencies involved in the project, including
several agencies of the four state governments, the GOI Ministries of Agri-
culture and Commerce, ARDC, ICAR, banks, Cashew Council and Cashew Director-
ate, GOI would establish a coordination committee. The committee would also
deal with problems that cannot be solved at state level, would monitor the
project; and review project expenditure of each agency at least annually and
if necessary arrange for reallocation of project funds between agencies or
states. Assurances were obtained that the committee would be established by
September 30, 1980.
5.22      State Level Coordination.  In three states, the Development Commis-
sioner or Agricultural Production Commissioner would be in charge of the proj-
ect but in AP the senior ranking of two participating departmental secretaries,--
in October 1979, the Secretary for Food and Forests--would coordinate the
project in his State. He would appoint a project officer of at least joint
secretary level to be primarily responsible for project management, including
monitoring and evaluation (para 5.23). In addition, each state would estab-
lish a state level coordination committee on which all implementing depart-
ments, agencies, ARDC and representatives of participating banks would be
represented. Assurances were obtained that by September 30, 1980, project
1/   An administrative subdivision.



- 29 -
states would appoint or designate the senior officer responsible for the
project and would establish a project coordination committee with terms of
reference mutually agreed between the project states and IDA.
Reporting Requirements and Evaluation
5.23      Each project agency would prepare a quarterly report and an annual
progress summary and within six months after completion of the project, a
completion report acceptable to IDA. The project officer in each state would
collate agency reports and the GOI project officer would consolidate the
reports from the states. Quarterly reports would reach IDA within six weeks
after the end of each calendar quarter and annual summaries within six weeks
after the end of the reporting year.
5.24      Monitoring would be accomplished mainly by quarterly and annual
reporting procedures. However, independent monitoring of the success of
extension efforts for smallholders would be carried out by the monitoring
and evaluation unit of the extension service, along lines described in
World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 272 "A System for Monitoring and Evaluat-
ing Agricultural Extension Projects." Areas planted under the project will
only begin to bear or will not have started to do so at the end of the project
period so that meaningful yield evaluation would not be possible.
Accounts and Audit
5.25      In accordance with commercial practice, participating corporations
would maintain financial and cost accounting systems which would provide
regular information to corporation management and would allow inventory
management and internal audit. Their annual accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Accounting and auditing procedures
of ARDC, commercial and cooperative banks are satisfactory. They would
maintain clearly identifiable accounts for project loans.
5.26      GOI and the four state governments would cause participating depart-
ments and agencies in the project to maintain separate accounts for project
expenditure which would be audited, in the case of GOI according to GOI proce-
dures, which are satisfactory and in the case of participating states by the
Accountant General in each state. Assurances were obtained that accounting
and auditing procedures outlined in this and the preceding paragraph would be
followed and that audited accounts and audit reports of participating corpora-
tions, ARDC, participating banks and audited project accounts of state govern-
ment departments participating in the project would be sent to IDA within nine
months of the end of the financial year of each project agency.
VI. CASHEWNUT PRODUCTION, MARKET AND PRICES
Yields and Production
6.01      New plantings would come into bearing with about 50 kg/ha yield
in the fourth year after planting, increasing to about 900 kg/ha in the tenth



- 30 -
year. Yield of existing plantations to be improved would increase by about
100 kg/ha in the first year due to fertilizer and pest control treatment and
would increase to an incremental yield of 600 kg/ha in the tenth year though
overall yield at 800 kg/ha would not reach the level of new plantations. The
same yields have been assumed for all project areas, irrespective of soil
type, locatior. or whether the land is operated by smallholders or corporations.
With regard to ecological factors, higher rainfall on the west coast would
compensate for more favorable soil conditions in Andhra Pradesh. In Orissa
where many plantations would be on poor lateritic soil, with lower rain than
on the west coast, the use of vegetatively propagated plants, on part of the
land, would compensate for the less favorable ecology. The intensive exten-
sion advice and support which would be provided to smallholders and the care
that they can give to their crop should allow smallholders to achieve the
same yields as corporations.
6.02      By project completion at the end of 1984, nut production will only
just have started and would be about 5,000 tons, increasing to about 53,000
tons at maturity in 1994. Smallholder plantations would account for about
60% of the production. Of the total, about 48,000 tons would come from
54,000 ha new planting, and about 5,000 tons from the 7,500 ha program for
improving existing plantations (Annex 5 Table 4).
World Raw Nut Production
6.03     ,World raw cashewnut production ranges between 400,000 and 500,000
tons per year (Table 6.1) and between 1955 and 1975 grew at about 6% per
annum. The growth, which had occurred mainly in East Africa, was sharply
curtailed by adverse seasons and disruption of nut purchasing arrangements.
More recently, large-scale planting programs have been reported from Brazil
and Tanzania in addition to India. Small programs are also under way in
a number of other countries. Assuming reasonable progress of planting plans
and recovery of production in East Africa, 1990 world production (when project
plantations would mature) is projected at about 0.9 million tons raw nuts per
year.
Cashew Kernel Trade and Prices
6.04      Between 1955 and 1975, the volume of annual world cashew trade
ranged between 65,000 and 100,000 tons and grew at about 4.6% per annum
(Table 6.2). Since then the trade, and particularly India's share, has
declined due to reduced supply of East African raw nuts. Regional share of
kernel imports has remained fairly constant -- about 55% to 60% into North
America, 25% into Eastern Europe and 10% into Western Europe, with the share
of the market by Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia growing in import-
ance. Kernel imports until 1975 had been growing at rather faster rate than
that for competing nuts, with fastest growth in USSR and the Netherlands
(Table 6.3) and in the above listed Asian countries. There is little infor-
mation about domestic consumption in exporting countries. Apparently negli-
gible in East Africa, local use may be increasing in Brazil and is said to
be about 10,000 tons kernels per year in India -- half of them home processed
and consumed by growers.



- 31 -
6.05      Over 60% of kernels are consumed as salted nuts which compete with
peanuts, almonds, walnuts, hazelnuts and other savory snacks. Since cashew
price is higher than that of peanuts, for instance, strong growth in demand
is due to consumer preference for cashew kernels. Cashew kernels, mainly
broken grades, are also used for baking and confectionery purposes, but
demand tends to fluctuate more than that for salted kernels.
6.06      Kernel prices quoted by grade 320 1/ whole kernels CIF New York
quadrupled between 1957 and 1978 in current terms and about doubled in constant
terms (Table 6.4). The rapid increase in kernel price occurred mainly in
recent years, due to an increase in consumer preference and a supply shortage
in the industry. While the peak price which stood at almost US$5,300 per ton
during a short period during 1977, caused temporary consumer resistance, it
has conditioned them to somewhat higher price levels than in the past.
Kernel Market and Price Prospects
6.07      Based on population, income levels and income elasticity, the
World Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Department 2/ forecasts steady
growth of consumption, with demand reaching about 200,000 tons kernels by
1990. This projection, equal to 870,000 tons raw nuts, is close to production
forecasts (para 6.03). Prices for such production level are forecast at
US$4,360 per ton in 1985 and US$4,817 per ton in 1990 for 320 wholes, CIF
New York, in 1979 constant terms. Members of the cashew trade who reviewed
the forecasts were confident that demand for projected production would be
adequate at prices forecast, which have been used for financial and economic
analysis in this report. Actual price per ton kernels would depend on the
mix of various grades -- for instance, broken kernels fetch only from 50% to
70% of whole kernel prices. The mix varies in each state (Table 6.5). As
shown in Table 6.6, taking account of kernel mix, freight and brokerage
charges, projected FOB India prices for Kerala would be Rs 32,675 and
Rs 36,315 per ton in 1985 and 1990 respectively and those for AP, Rs 30,200
and Rs 33,565 per ton in the same years, with all prices expressed in 1979
constant terms.
Indian Raw Nut Price Projections
6.08      Since 85% of Indian production is exported, world market price
would determine local raw nut prices. Other factors are the kernel mix
(para 6.07), farmgate-to-wholesaler expenses and value of by-product. The
only by-product of importance is CNSL. As already indicated (para 1.18),
there is a trade-off because of kernel quality loss when CNSL is recovered.
At present, the breakeven CNSL price is about US$500 per ton. Prices are
above US$1,000 per ton at present, after years of being between US$150
and US$300 per ton. Since little information is available on CNSL market
and prices, which might again decline below breakeven level, and since only
some factories have CNSL extracting equipment, by-product recovery has not
been assumed in raw nut price calculation.
1/   Number of kernels per pound.
2/   Commodity Note No. 5 - Cashew Nuts:  Review and Outlook, June 1978.



- 32 -
6.09      There is considerable variation in processing costs between private
and public sector and, because of different wage rates, among states. Simi-
larly, there are variations in processing quality among factories in different
states. Main differences are between Kerala where both wage rates and quality
of processing are high and other states where wage rates and qualty of proces-
sing are lower. Since public sector processors have been stead-ily expanding
their share of exports, their costs have been used for calculating raw nut
price for Kerala. Quality advantages are more than offset by high processing
costs, and raw nut prices in Kerala are, and will continue to be lower than
in other states. As shown in Table 6.6, the projected kernel price results
in farmgate raw nut prices rising from Rs 4,335 and Rs 4,900 per ton in 1985,
in Kerala and other states respectively to Rs 5,100 and Rs 5,590 by 1990 (in
1979 constant price levels),.which have been assumed for financial projections
in this report.
VII. FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A. Financial Models
7.01      Financial models were developed for cashew cultivation by small-
holders in each state and for two state corporations to evaluate investment
in the project. The state corporation models are based on costs in states
with relatively higher wage rates and less favorable raw nut prices, to test
financial results under the more conservative parameters (PCK on the west
coast, APFDC on the east coast). The comparison of per ha establishment costs
and total cost (excluding price contingencies) shown below indicates the
relative cost of investment among the four states.
Cost Per ha of Cashew Cultivation
(Amounts in US dollars)
Andhra
Kerala    Karnataka      Pradesh  Orissa
---- West Coast     ---     East Coast--
Smallholder
Establishment
Costs /a              430       320             270       235
Total Costs             725 /b   410              375       295
State Corporations
Establishment
Costs /a              435       340             380       240
Total Costs             900       790             835       525
/a   For new plantation and improvement to existing plantation.
/b   Includes feeder roads component.



- 33 -
New cultivation and improvement of existing plantations was estimated to be
implemented at the rate of 5% in year one, 20% in year two, 30% in years
three and four, and 15% in year five, as summarized in Annex 5, Table 5.
A pre-operations year (Indian FY 79/80) was assumed, based on four months
staff recruitment and start-up expenditures. Detailed production costs
are shown in Annex 4, Tables 2 and 4; cost estimates for all components by
state are shown in Table 3.1-4.4 of Annex 2.
B. Financial Results
7.02      Smallholders.  A projected cash flow (in constant late 1979 Rupees)
and rates of return are shown in Annex 4, Tables 1 and 3, for new plantations
and improvements to existing plantations, respectively. Financing has been
based on 5% farmer equity contribution, 25% government subsidy, and the
balance from commercial loan. The financing requirement in the case of new
plantations is for five deficit years of establishment costs with farm family
labor valued at the full market rate. Subsidy is assumed to be paid in equal
annual installments over three years, and a 10 to 15-year term loan at 10.5%
interest would be disbursed over the full five deficit years.   Interest would
be capitalized during that time. In Orissa (10-year term loans), debt service
would begin in the sixth year. In other states, interest payments would com-
mence in the sixth year and principal repayment in the seventh, when a typical
one hectare plantation owner would expect net revenues after debt servicing
of from Rs 355 on the west coast to Rs 1,435 on the east coast. The annual
net cash flow after full amortization would amount to Rs 3,285 in year 16
and onward in Kerala and Rs 4,160 from year 11 onward in Orissa, or about
US$170-495 per farm family with a 1 ha holding, on land that, at present,
is giving practically no returns. Financial rates of return were calculated
at 24-29% on the west coast and 33-40% on the east coast; sensitivity tests
indicated that considerable changes would have to occur before the returns
would prove unacceptable.
7.03      For improvements to existing plantations, earlier increased revenue
allows an 8 to 10-year term loan with disbursement over two years, with a
three year grace period on principal repayment and interest capitalized for
three years. Debt service coverage is high. After loan amortization,
Karnataka smallholders could expect net incremental benefits of Rs 2,520
(US$300) from one hectare cashews, and those in Andhra Pradesh, Rs 2,585
incremental income (US$305). Financial rates of return are 40% for Karnataka
and over 50% for Andhra Pradesh, and are not sensitive to major changes in
values.
7.04      Return to the farmer's equity, calculated on the net benefit stream
after financing, is over 50% in all cases. However, in designing the financ-
ing package for an investment of this nature with a long gestation period,
special consideration must be given to providing adequate incentive for farmer
participation, as discussed in para 3.10.



- 34 
7.05      Corporations.  Cashew activities of the four participating corpora-
tions vary in size from 2,275 ha in Kerala to 13,000 ha in Orissa. Sources of
finance would be Rs 500/ha GOI and state subsidy for new planting, bank loans
(two-thirds of the balance) and equity to be subscribed by state governments
(one-third of the balance). Each loan installment would be for up to 15 years
with 10.5% annual interest rate. Projections have been made for Kerala (PCK)
and Andhra Pradesh (APFDC) to test differences in cost and nut price levels.
Income projections, cash flows and financial returns estimates are shown in
Annex 4.
7.06      PCK would require an eight year moratorium on interest payment and
would start repaying capital from the tenth year. It would start showing a
small profit in the tenth year, which would build up to about Rs 6 million per
year (before dividends and taxes) after 20 years. APFDC, with an 8,000 ha
cashew planting program, also requires an eight year interest moratorium but
starts capital repayment in the ninth year and builds up a surplus of Rs 26.6
million at maturity. The rate of return calculated over a period of 40 years,
the peak bearing period of the plantation, is 15% for PCK and 18% for APFDC.
A combination of 10% reduction of benefits and 10% increase of all costs would
reduce the rates to 11% and 14% respectively. Returns for the Karnataka
Corporation would be between the above rates, and, because of lower wage
rates, returns for the Orissa Corporation would be substantially higher than
the APFDC rate. The rates are satisfactory particularly in view of high
returns to the economy (Chapter VIII), and the impact of corporations' opera-
tions on emiployment and foreign exchange generation.
VIII. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Benefits
8.01      The project would contribute substantially to protecting India's
share of world market cashew trade and resultant foreign exchange earnings,
by bringing 61,275 ha into new or improved cultivation. At full project
development, this area located in four states would produce approximately
53,000 tons of cashews annually with an economic value of Rs 385 million
(US$46 million). Incomes of about 35,000 smallholders, the majority of whom
are subsistence farmers who must supplement their farm income by casual labor,
would be increased. Participation in the project would offer them the rela-
tively greater security of income from a cash crop. The project would gene-
rate about 12,000 labor years employment on the land and secure about 35,000
labor years employment per annum in the processing industry. The project
would accelerate ongoing efforts to introduce modern cashew production tech-
nology and to raise yields. In this respect, its impact would be felt beyond
the confines of project objectives, because other cashew areas would benefit
from project extension and research efforts. Finally, the special focus
which this project would bring to cashews and the study of the industry to
be financed by the project, should benefit the entire industry and improve
its efficiency in face of increasing competition from abroad.



- 35 -
Economic Evaluation
8.02      Separate economic rates of return were calculated at 31% to the
smallholder component, 24% to the state corporations component, and 25% to
the overall project, as shown in Annex 5.
8.03      Economic costs of the project would consist of production costs,
capital and operating costs and, for the overall project, costs for research,
the Cashew Industry Study, training, the Orissa pilot coastal dunes scheme
and Kerala feeder roads. All costs are net of taxes, duties, price contin-
gencies, and interest payments, but include physical contingencies of 10%
for civil works and 5% for vehicles, equipment and incremental operating
expenses. Fertilizer, which represents about 35% of production costs, has
been adjusted by a specific conversion factor of 0.823 1/ to reflect more
accurately the value to the economy of utilizing foreign exchange. 2/ Due
to widespread rural unemployment in the four states, the opportunity cost
of unskilled labor accounting for about 50% of production costs was valued
at 70% of the market wage rate, corresponding to the upper limit of the
50-70% range typically estimated for the economic cost of field labor in
various agricultural projects in India.
8.04      A summary of prices used in the economic and financial analysis
is shown in Annex 5, Table 6. In calculating separate rates of return to
the different project components, a weighted price was used to reflect Kerala
contribution of about 20% of production from the project. Economic prices
for Kerala nuts are higher because of superior outturn (Table 6.6). Foreign
exchange earnings from cashews were valued at Rs 10 = US$1 based on the
standard conversion factor for India of 0.8.
8.05      Future benefits without the project for improved plantations were
taken at their preproject yield level of 200 kg/ha. For the 53,775 ha in-
tended for new cultivation, it was estimated that 10% of the area (5,400 ha)
would be developed in the future without the project, under a medium level of
management, yielding 400 kg at full development.
8.06      The analysis was calculated over a 40 year period for new planta-
tions and 30 years for existing plantations to be improved, spanning the peak
bearing period of cashew trees. Under these assumptions, and providing for
civil works and equipment replacement during the life of the project, sensi-
tivity analysis was performed on the base estimates to test the likelihood of
worst case changes affecting the rate of return. As evident from the table
below, even an unusually stringent combination of all costs increasing 20%
while benefits decline by 20%, still produces acceptable rates of return.
1/   Based on IBRD projections.  See Annex 5, Table 6 (footnote 3).
2/   A conversion factor is the ratio of the world market (border) price
to the domestic market price, where the domestic price is expressed
in dollars converted at the market exchange rate.



- 36 -
Economic Analysis
Results of Sensitivity Tests
Smallholder State Corps. Overall
Component    Component    Project
Capital Cost (US$ million)                      14.7           17.7         36.2
Base Estimate                                   31%            24%          25%
All Costs and Future Benefits Without
Project Increased 20%, Benefits De-
creased 20%                                     22             16           17
Benefits Delayed 2 Years                        22             17           18
Production, Capital and Operating
Costs Increased 20%                             28             19           22
Future Benefits Without Project
Increased 50%                                   31             23           25
8.07      As an additional test, switching values were calculated for critical
variables in each project component and for the overall project, and are sum-
marized below. The switching value of a variable is that value at which the
net present value of the project is zero (or, when the rate of return equals
the economic opportunity cost of capital). The switching point is the per-
centage change required over the discounted appraisal value to produce the
switching value. At an estimated opportunity cost of capital of 12%, the
overall project switching points for total costs and benefits, respectively,
are an increase of 98% or a decrease of 49%, well within acceptable risk
boundaries.



- 37 -
Switching Values of Critical Variables
(OCC  12%)
Appraisal Switching Switching
Variable                                    Value       Value      Point
-----Rs million----
I.   Overall Project
Production, Capital and
Operating Costs                          455.1     1,004.7       121%
Costs of Other Project Components          31.5       581.1    1,724%
Future Benefits Without Project            75.1        624.6      731%
Total Costs                               561.7      1,112.2       98%
Total Benefits                          1,111.3        561.8      -49%
II. State Corporations Component
Production Costs                          129.8        345.5       166%
Capital and Operating Costs                95.7        311.5      225%
Future Benefits Without Project            36.0        251.7      600%
Total Costs                               261.5        477.2       82%
Total Benefits                            477.2        261.5      -45%
III. Smallholder Component
Production Costs                          190.1        555.4      192%
Capital and Operating Costs                39.6       404.9       923%
Future Benefits Without Project            39.1       404.4       934%
Total Costs                               268.8        634.3      136%
Total Benefits                            634.1        268.8      -58%
Project Beneficiaries
8.08      The majority of smallholders who would be participating in the
project own less than 1 ha, usually combining a portion of paddyland for
family subsistence with marginal land having limited economic uses. Parti-
cipation in the project would provide the farm family with a means to supple-
ment their income in the future by an estimated annual increment of from
US$170-495, on a 1 ha basis, or about US$30-80 per capita for an average
family of six members. This incremental net benefit is comparable to the
estimated absolute poverty income level of US$65 per capita for rural pop-
ulation in India. In addition, once established under good management, the
tree has a long productive life spanning about two family generations. At
full development, a total of about 12,000 labor years of employment would be
created annually at the farm level, and in some states as much as 30% of labor
requirements for cashew cultivation is undertaken by women. In addition,
about 1,475 incremental staff would be required for state government depart-
ments and state corporations to administer the production program. Finally,
production from the project would contribute to establishing job security for
about 150,000 manually skilled workers in the processing industry, most of
whom are women.



- 38 -
Project Risks
8.09      Obtaining adequate participation for the project by smallholders
would be a major challenge. However, measures for promoting the project con-
cept by intensive extension and support services (paras 5.08 to 5.10), induce-
ments by subsidizing smallholder investment programs (para 3.10), and easing
loan application procedures (para 5.14) together should ensure adequate
farmer participation in the project. On the question of markets for the
future incremental production from the project, recent market analysis by the
Economic Analysis and Projections Department and forecasts by the cashew trade
confirm that strong growth of demand for cashew kernels would continue so that
there would be no problems in finding markets for project production.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances have been obtained that:
(a)  GOI would:
(i)  By September 30, 1980, furnish to IDA proposals for
carrying out cashew research (para 3.14);
(i'i) Ensure that the cashew industry study would commence
by September 30, 1980, and that the final report would
be made available to IDA (para 3.16);
(iii) Follow agreed procurement procedures (paras 4.05-4.08);
(iv)  Establish the project coordination committee by
September 30, 1980 (para 5.21) and;
(v)  Follow agreed accounting and auditing procedures
(para 5.26).
(b)  All participating states would:
(i)  Provide a subsidy to farmers for cashew planting and
improvement to obtain satisfactory smallholder parti-
cipation (para 3.10);
(ii)  Follow agreed procurement procedures (paras 4.05-4.08);
(iii) By September 30, 1980, draw up a training program and
send it to IDA for comments (para 5.12);
(iv)  Appoint a project officer and establish the coordina-
tion committee by September 30, 1980 (para 5.22); and
(v)  Follow agreed accounting and auditing procedures (paras
5.25-5.26).



- 39 -
(c) Karnataka and Kerala would give priority to project
areas for implementing T&V extension (para 5.08);
(d) Orissa would prepare and make available to IDA by
December 31, 1980, plans for implementing the dune
reclamation pilot scheme (para 3.13);
(e) Kerala would submit annual road construction programs by
June 30 of each year (para 3.15);
(f) Karnataka would cause its Cashew Corporation to employ
a finance officer with adequate experience for insti-
tuting a management accounting and reporting system
(para 5.03);
(g)  ARDC would:
(i)  In consultation with project states, establish criteria
for selecting cashew plantations for improvement in the
project area (para 3.06);
(ii) Provide adequate credit after the project period
to ensure completion of the plantation program
initiated by the project (para 4.04);
(iii) Ensure lending terms and conditions outlined in
Schedule A (paras 5.13 and 5.15).
(iv) Follow agreed accounting and auditing procedures
(para 5.26).
9.02      Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and ARDC (para
5.13) would be a condition of disbursement against the credit components.



- 40 -
Schedule A
Page 1
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
1.   GOI to ARDC:
(a) In respect of ARDC refinancing not exceeding 9 years:
(i) interest rate of 6.25% per annum, less 0.25% for prompt
payment, and
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b) In respect of ARDC refinancing in excess of 9, but not exceeding 15
years:
(i) interest rate of 6.75% per annum, less 0.25% for prompt
payment, and
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c)  GOI to bear the foreign exchange risk.
2.   ARDC to Participating Banks:
(a)  Interest rate to be 6.5% per annum for lending to
small farmers 1/ and 7.5% per annum for lending to
other borrowers;
(b)  Installment repayments to coincide approximately with
collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(c)  Refinancing to be by purchase of debentures or by loans
up to 90% of the individual loans.
3.   Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers:
(a)  Annual interest rate to be 9.5% per annum for small
farmers 1/ and 10.5% for other borrowers;
(b)  A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost
of investment may be charged; this fee may be waived
with the concurrence of ARDC;
1/   "Small Farmer" is defined as "any person primarily engaged in an activity
which provides a pre-development net return to family resources to such
person and his family not exceeding Rs 2,000 (based on 1972 prices); and
"net return to family resources" shall mean gross family income from the
said activity less costs actually incurred.



- 41 -
Schedule A
Page 2
(c) Farmer's contribution (including obligatory purchase
of LDB shares, own labor and other contributions in
cash or kind):
(i) for lending to small farmers, a minimum of 5% of the
investment costs;
(ii)  for farmers cultivating land providing a pre-development
net return to family resources to such farmer and his
family ranging from Rs 2,001 to Rs 3,500 based on 1972
prices, a minimum of 10% 1/ of the investment cost, and
(iii) for other farmers a minimum of 15% 2/ of the investment
cost.
(d)  Corporation's contributions to be a minimum of 20%
of investment cost; and
(e)  Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's
repayment capacity, but not to exceed 15 years (including
grace periods) from the date of each withdrawal.
4.   General:
(a)  Participating banks to maintain separate accounts for
lending to small farmers;
(b)  Security including government guarantee to be in accordance
with arrangements between participating banks and ARDC;
(c)  ARDC shall refinance only sound schemes which, on the basis
of careful study are considered to be financially and
economically viable, and are backed with satisfactory
technical and administrative management;
(d)  ARDC shall forward all applications for refinance of schemes
having total investment costs of US$500,000 equivalent or
more together with appraisal reports and all other relevant
data to IDA for its approval before ARDC approves the schemes;
(e)  Where necessary, ARDC may approve rescheduling of loans
particularly when requests for rescheduling of loans
are from districts suffering from adverse climatic
conditions; and
1/   7% for two or more farmers in a group loan.
2/   10% for two or more farmers in a group loan.



- 42 -
Schedule A
Page 3
(f) ARDC shall apply eligibility criteria for financing institu-
tions to obtain refinance from ARDC, such criteria to be
acceptable to IDA.
5.   These lending terms and conditions may be amended from time to time as
agreed between IDA, ARDC and GOI.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Raw Nut Imports and Kernel Exports
(Volume in thousand metric tons; Value in US million dollars)
Cashew Raw Nuts                                                   Cashew Kernel Exports
Local -/    Total 1/   Imports as                                                                 Whole as
Imports        Purchases   Processed   % of total               Broken             Whole             Total         % of
Years     Volume   Value       Volume       Volume      Processed           Volume  Value   Volume  Value   Volume  Value    Total
1961/62    101.9    14.1        72.3         174.2           59                      -        -            -    41.8    38.2          -
1962/63    155.3    19.1        47.2          202.5          77                  -       -        _        -    48.6    40.7          -
1963/64    157.5    23.0        55.0          212.5          74                  -       -        -        -    51.0    45.0          -
1964/65    191.5    34.5        40.6          232.1          83                  -       -        -        -    55.7    61.0          -
1965/66    160.6    31.6        52.7          213.3          75              15.2    13.8    36.0    43.7    51.2    57.5            70              I
1966/67    113.1    26.1        58.6          171.7          66              12.4    12.5    28.8    40.6    41.2    53.0            70
1967/68    168.2    33.4        44.7          212.9          79              15.1    13.7    36.0    43.7    51.1    57.4            70
1968/69    195.5    41.8        69.5          265.0          74              17.3    17.9    46.3    63.4    63.6    81.2            73
1969/70    163.4    36.8        89.1          252.5          65              16.2    16.5    44.4    60.1    60.6    76.6            73
1970/71    169.4    39.2        40.2          209.6          81              11.7    13.0    38.6    56.7    50.3    69.4            77
197-1/72    170.0    37.5       81.7          251.7          68              14.9    16.1    45.5    66.3    60.4    82.4            75
1972/73    197.9    41.2        78.4          276.3          72              12.7    12.5    53.6    76.8    66.3    89.3            81
1973/74    150.2    37.0        67.7          217.9          69                9.7    14.2    42.6    81.2    52.3    95.5           81
1974/75    160.4    45.9       110.9          271.3          59              13.8    28.3    51.3   119.8    65.1   148.1            79
1975/76    136.5    38.8        85.2          221.7          62              10.4    18.4    43.2    92.7    53.2   110.3            81
1977         71.8        -      89.5          161.3          45                  -       -        -        -    38.7   166.5          -
1978         20.0        -     100.0          120.0          17                  -       -        -        -    28.8   110.0          -
1/ Mission estimate using 24% kernel recovery from raw nuts.
Sources:  1961/62 to 1975/76 World Bank Report No. 1352-IN INDIA:  Export Performance, Problems, Policies and Prospects, 5/18/77.                    XY-
1977 Cashew Corporation of India                                                                                                             m
1978 Mission Estimate                                                                                                                        x



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Area and Production of Cashewnuts in India During_968-69 to 1976-77
At the end of IV
At the end of 1968-69   Plan (1973-74)                  1974-75                   1975-76                  1976-77                  1977-78
Area in   Production   Area in   Production   Area in   Production   Area in   Production   Area in   Production  Area in   Production
Ha        in M.T.        Ha        in M.T.        Ha        in M.T.        Ha        in M.T.         Ha        in M.T.       Ha        in M.T.
Andhra
Pradesh        17,945      10,770       19,012      11,760       31,300      12,800        31,000      12,600       25,100      12,500    25,100       12,500
Kerala         69,258      67,380       75,621      80,086      108,220    117,890        109,198    119,212       118,139    129,021   119,305         91,926
Karnataka      44,839      12,100       57,749      18,745       34,236      14,290        35,687      15,249       36,534      15,175    36,534        15,175
Maharashtra   15,674        4,850       58,626       6,824       79,808        3,634       83,413       4,214       79,808       3,634    79,808        10,328
Orissa          6,943       1,000       14,546       1,675       24,487          940       24,487         940       24,487         940    24,487           940                   1
Tamil Nadu    82,938        9,780      102,733      12,930       96,550        9,380       96,760      10,480       97,130      11,470    93,460       10,520
Goa            21,066       3,500       29,657       5,420       32,517        6,500       32,517       7,500       32,517       6,500    32,517         6,500
P ndicherry         -           -            -           -          319         158          320          138          322          42        329          52
2ripura             _           _            _                      743          17           743          17          753          23        753           23
West Bengal    2,742        1,500        2,742       1,840        2,506         Neg.        2,506        Neg.        2,506        Neg.      2,506         Neg.
Others          2,897         400        3,349         720             -           -            -           -            -            -
Total        264,302    111,280       364,041    140,000        410,686   165,609       416,631    170,350        417,296    179,305   414,799    147,964
Source: Cashew Directorate who made the following note: Area and production
figures are as reported by State Governments. They are purely
tentative and prov.3zaonal and liable to be revised.



ANNEX 1
Table 2.1
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Selected Data of Project States
Kerala-                 Karnataka -         Andhra Pradesh -              Orissa -
1. GENERAL DATA
Population (millions) -                   21.3                      29.3                     43.5                    21.9
Population density per
sq km 1/                                 549                       153                      157                     141
Rural population as per-
cent of total                             84                        76                       81                      92
Per capita income Rs 2/                    861                       784                    1,003                     707
Income from Agriculture as
percent of total                          57                        66                       51                      60
Agricultural employment as
percent of total employment               48                        67                       85                      72
Unemployment percentage of                      6/                        6/7/                                             7/
labor force                             23.5 -                     8.6 -                   11.2                    10.2
Percentage literacy of
population 1/                           60.4                      31.5                     24.6                    26.1
2. LAND USE
Land Area(sq km)                        38,864                   191,160                  276,700                 156,000
Forests (sq km)                         10,800                    29,000                   63,600                  61,000
Uncultivable Land(sq km)                 3,400                    61,000                   43,000                   8,800
Net Area Sown (sq kIn)                  21,900                   103,600                  411,700                  59,000
Total Area Sown(sq km)                  29,800                   111,600                  129,600                  72,000
Area     Production    Area       Production    Area       Production    Area       Production
3.  IMPORTANT CROPS                   ('000 ha) ('000 tons)  ('000 ha) (J000 tons)  ('000 ha) ('000 tons)  ('000 ha) ('000 tons)
Rice                               876       1,257          963        1,480        3,284       6,451        4,380      3,218
Other Grains                         12           3        3,862       2,916        4,482          994          690       448
Pulses                               18          14          956          286       1,395          388          967       407
Oilseeds                            47          21        1,050           403       2,224       1,400           325       206
Cotton                                7           2       1,071            78          350          41            4          1
Jute/Kenaf                            -           -           -            -            -           -            85        106
Orchards/Tree Crops              1,216            -       3,100            -           200          _           619         -
Cashewnuts                         105 -       115           -             -            21          -
Sq Km tand               Sq Km Land              Sq Km Land               Sq Km Land
4.  TRANSPORT                            Km      Area per Ym   Km          Area per Km      Km     Area per Km       K       Atea per Km
Rail                              890           44        2,936            65       4,726           59       1,960         80
Surfaced Roads                 10,900             4      25,000             8      20,000           14      11,300         14
Other Roads                     4,740             8      37,000             5      66,500            4      44,900           3
Total Roads                    15,640             2      62,000             3      86,500            3      56,200           3
1/  1971 Census
2/  1974-75 Current
3/ Except as indicated 1975-76 Data
4/ Except as indicated 1976-77 Data
5/ Believed to be under estimate
6/ Low seasonality
7/ High seasonality
Sources:  Statistics for Planning - Bureau for Economics and Statistics Kerala, 1977
Statistical Outline of Karnataka - Bureau of Economics and Statistics, Bangalore, 1977
Andhra Pradesh - Statistical Abstract 1976, Bureau of Economics and Statistics, Government of Andhra Pradesh
Andhra Pradesh - Season and Crop Report, 1975-76, Bureau of Economics and Statistics, Government of
Andhra Pradesh
Statistical Outline of Orissa 1977, Bureau of Statistics and Economics, Orissa
Economic Situation and Prospects of India, World Bank Report No. 2008-IN - April 17, 1978



- 46 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 3.1
IND IA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Staff and Equipment for Cashew Units
Kerala    Karnataka   Andhra Pradesh   Orissa
STAFF
Additional or Joint Director                   1            1               1            1
Deputy Director 1/                             3            6               2
Assistant Director                             3            -               5            1
Subject Matter Specialist                      6           3               8            4
Junior Agricultural Officer 2/                 7          35                8           _
Field Assistant 2/                            50          10               50          25
Nursery Supervisors                           20          20               20            -
Clerical and Supporting Staff                 42          34              56.
Credit Specialist                             1             1               13/         -
Total                                     133          110             151           31
VEHICLES AND EQIJIPMENT
Motor Car                                     _             1               1            -
Jeeps with trailers                            8           7               8            1
Trucks                                         3           2               -            -
Motorcycles                                    7           35               8           25
Bicycles                                      35          10               50           -
Furniture and Office Equipment (Rs)   210,000        175,000         175,000            -
Misc. Equipment (Rs)                    170,000      175,000         175,000      200,000
Motorized Sprayers                            50          50              50           25
1/ or Senior Assistant Director
2/ or equivalent designation
3/ Assistant Director for Credit, HQ



- 47 -                                                          ANNEX 1
Table 3.2
Page 1
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
List of Kerala Roads to be Improved
Road         Name                               Future        Estimated
Priority      of                  Length of    Cashew          Cost of
District      Number       Road                 Road (km)    Area (ha)    Rs (million)  Remarks
Palghat          1.        Kattappuram
Nattukkal               15             325           1.00        Includes bridge deck and a short section of
forming to provide a connecting road.
2.       Viyyakurissi
Pallissery              11             160           0.70        Does not include causeway construction
Is a loop feeder road.
3.       Palathara
Vengassevi               5             260           0.35        Connects two main roads.
4.       Pookkattukavu
Thrikkideeri             8             200           0.50        Connects two roads.  Causeway not included
in cost.
5.       Naduvathu
Para Tapur               8.5           200           0.60        Short connecting section to be built to join
two main roads. Causeway not included in cost.
6.       Chunangao
Malappuram
Pulappattassery          5             100           0.45        Short section included to form connecting
road. Section of steep grades involved.
7.       Kadanboor
Alangad                  2.5           300           0.15        Short section of 15 km road, included in
improvement to provide connecting road.
8.       Mahalumpuram
Thallachira              5             150           0.40        Existing road built by local people.
Penetration road to new cashew area.
9.       Ambalappara
Melur                   10             200           0.60        Connecting road, after 1.5 km of totally
new road constructed.
Total                                              70           1,895           4.75
Malappuram       1.        Pookkottucholf
Moothedathparamba
(Kavanoor)              4             700           0.25        Connects two roads.
2.       Pothurattipara
Mindakkulam              4             700           0.30        Connects two roads.
3.       Charain
Elamkur                 6           1,000            0.45        Penetration road into new cashew area.
4.       Kadungallure
Chaliyapuram
(Omanoor)               9           1,000           0.60        Connecting road after construction of 100 M
across paddy field.
5.       Therattammal
Edavanna                10           1,000           0.90        Forms a connecting road, but river crossings
at each end of road. An isolated area of high
cashew potential.
6.       Chullikkode
Mundakkal
(Thavanoor)             8             800           0.60        Connecting road.
7.       Therattammal
Mampad                  14           1,250           1.00        Isolated area - good cashew potential, little
other crops. Well populated.
8.       Pookkottuchola
Ugrapuram                3             250           0.20
9.       Moothedathparamba
Perakamanna              4             300           0.30
10.       Kinaradappan
Vendakkum
Poyll                   15             800           1.00        Penetration road into isolated area.  Good
potential for cashew development.
Total                                              77           7,800           5.60



- 48-                                                          ANNEX 1
Table 3.2
Page 2
Road        Name                                Future         Estimated
Priority      of                  Length of    Cashew          Cost of
District      Number       Road                 Road (km)    Area (ha)    Rs (million)  Remarks
Kozhikode        1.        College site to
Muchukunnu               5             140           0.30        Includes bridge over irrigation canal.  Loop
road connecting back to main road.
2.       Mavazhi
Thottamukkam
Chundathumpozhil        5              125           0.40        Penetration road.
Total                                              10             265           0.70
Cannanore        1.        Adur
Balayathadukka           6           2,000           0.60        Penetration road. Teak logging road.
Existing trail very poor.
2.       Nellikatta
Karumanthodi            12           1,500           0.70        Connecting road well maintained; dry season
road on ridge.
3.       Poodanballam
Manikalu
Bala                     7           1,190           0.40        Penetration road.  Now a good dry season
road on ridge.
4.       Attanganam
Yayakayam                4             150           0.30        Penetration road.
5.       Kakkayamgad
Punnad                 12              110           0.50        Connecting road.
6.       Kootupuzha
Palathugal              10             500           0.70        Penetration road.  Bridge allows only jeep
access. Good cashew area.
7.       Kuramathur
Chenpenthotty          11           3,300            0.65        Connecting road.  Well maintained dry
season road.
8.       Kaniyarvayal
Irood                    8             225           0.40        Connecting road. Portions recently built.
Culverts under construction.
9.       7th Mile
Kalichanadakan          11             570           0.60        Connecting road. Bus route.
10.       Manjeswar
Paroor                   8           1,450           0.50        Connecting road follows ridge; very rough
rocky sections.
11.       Arikady
Kattathadukka          12           1,300            0.60        Connecting road on solid laterite or metalled.
Total                                             101          12,295           5.95
Grand Total                                      258          22,255           17.00



ANNEX 1
-49 -                               Table 6.1
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Raw Cashewnut Production in the Main Producing
Countries, 1955-78
('000 tons)
Year     Brazil    Mozambique    Tanzania    Kenya    India    Total
1955       10           54             19           1       66        150
1956       10           44             17           3       67        141
1957       10           74             34           3       66        187
1958       10          102             32           3       66        213
1959       10            69            34           3       66        182
1960       10           66             38          6        73        193
1961       10           97            42            6       66        221
1962       10           94            60           3        66        233
1963       22          133            43           5        66        269
1964       16          142            57           5        74        294
1965       22          119            65           8        67        281
1966       22          106             75          6        59        268
1967       26           97             78          9        72        282
1968       29          189            87           9        68        382
1969       29          132             94         10        90        355
1970       26          138             92         24       120        400
1971       16          156           116          11       110        409
1972       40          201           127          16        90        474
1973       25          167           128          11       100        431
1974       35          180           145          22        90        472
1975       37          190           120          25       141        513
1976       43           91            86          13       115        347
1977       50           75             72         15       125        337
1978       60           70             70           7      140        347
Sources:  For the years 1955-63: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Tree
Nuts World Production and Trade Statistics, October 1970;
For the years 1963-72: Tropical Product Institute, The Market
for Cashew Nut Kernels and Cashew Nut Shell Liquid;
For the years 1973-78: Gill and Duffus Landauer Ltd., Edible
Nut Market Reports, various issues; and US Foreign Agriculture
Attache Reports.
For the years 1969-78, for India, Mission estimate based on
estimated purchases of local nuts for export processing, plus
25% increasing to 30% for domestic use. (Table 1.1)



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
INDIA                                Table 6.2
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Exports of Cashewnut Kernels from Processing Countries
('000 tons)
Indian Exports
Year    Brazil   Mozambique   Tanzania   Kenya   India/a   Total**   as % of Total
1955        -           -            -         -       31.4        31.4         100
1960       0.6         1.3           -         -       43.6        45.5          96
1961       0.4         1.1           -         -       41.7        43.2          97
1962       0.6         1.9           -         -       48.6        51.1          95
1963       1.1         2.7           -         -       51.0        54.8          93
1964       1.1         3.5          0.1       0.1      55.7        60.5          92
1965       0.7         4.0          0.1       0.2      51.3        56.2          91
1966       1.8         5.7          0.6       0.1      50.1        58.3          89
1967       1.5         8.1          1.4       0.2      51.0        62.2          82
1968       3.3        11.3          1.4       0.2      63.7        79.9          80
1969       5.1        12.8          2.4       0.2      60.6        81.1          75
1970       6.5        14.7          2.9       0.1      50.3        74.5          68
1971       4.6        20.4          4.0       0.2      60.4        89.6          67
1972       7.3        27.2          2.9       0.1      66.3       103.8          64
1973       6.0         4.0/b        3.7       0.2      52.3        66.2          79
1974       7.6         8.0/b        4.1       0.1      65.0        84.8          77
1975     11.4         21.2          4.0       0.2      53.6        90.4          59
1976     10.0         21.1          6.1       1.6      38.7        77.5          50
1977     13.0/b       17.0          3.9       3.0      29.0/b      65.9          44
/a  Twelve months beginning April of the year shown to March of the following
year.
/b  Estimates.
** Totals may not equal the sum of their constituent items due to rounding
of figures.
Sources: National Trade Statistics; Gill and Duffus Landauer Ltd., Edible
Nut Statistics, December 1978.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Imports of Cashewnut Kernels by Principal Consuming Countries
_ 1960-1978
(tons)
West                                        New     United    United
Australia  Belgium   Canada   France   Germany   Netherlands   Japan    Sweden   Zealand   Kingdom   States         USSR         Total
1960           1,103       86      1,543         -       352        229          -       157      151        2,525   29,083      5,500       40,729
1961           1,218      111      1,760         -     1,163        287          -       135      166        3,317   26,703      4,000       38,860
1962           1,416      161      1,570         -     1,413        419          -       218      186        2,551   29,248      5,100       42,282
1963           1,547      148      1,892         -     1,483        505          -       199      210        2,554   34,355      8,100       50,993
1964           1,928      119      1,788         -     1,326        577          -       202      207        3,468   31,529    11,100        52,244
1965           1,536      147      1,882         -     1,071        449        515       142      170        3,265   29,761    12,800        51,738           3
1966           1,554      240      1,439         -       883        574        602       127      122        2,479   30,752    14,000        52,772
1967           2,198      204      1,944       514       972        655        658       147       110       2,747   33,043    12,500        55,692
1969           2,024      196      2,272       184     1,174        777        514       176      210        3,150   42,234    16,300        69,211
1969           2,317      198      2,604       896     1,460         946       868       165       170       2,559   37,607    25,900        75,690
19/0           1,739      224      2,787       800     1,817      1,156      1,311       179      212        1,573   42,943    20,000        7(4,741
1Q'1           2,339      280       5,778      959     2,105      1,679      1,735       163       171       2,305   44,229    16,500        78,243
1972           2,852      323      7,678    1,059      2,479      2,094      2,370       232       326       3,157   48,443    27,400        98,413
19713          2,364      391       6,708    1,164     3,004      2,616      3,289       197      254        3,420   49,003    20,700        93,110
1974           3,448      335       5,7(10     647     2,261      2,441      2,332       215       582       3,373   39,860    32,800        94,004
1975           3,568      393      4,865La   835       2,703      3,198      4,323       165      438        2,303   43,683    24,000        90,474
1976           3,489      377      6,583    1,028      2,986      3,197      6,559       NA      4W0         4,130   50,772    15,755        95,336
1977           2,840      325      4,475       760     2,595      2,809      4,634       125      NA         2,745   34,128    17,400        72,836
1978           2,077      245      2,754       725     2,063      2,462      2,612        81      NA         2,412   26,760      6,640l      48,836
Growth rate
between
1960/62 and
1973/75         7.3%     9.2%       10.2%     5.4%Lb    7.7%      28.7%    23.7%/i      0.9%o      7.4%      0.6%     3.5%      13.7%         6.5%
a Some of the Canadian imports were for re-export to the United States.
b  Average growth from 1967 to 1975.
c  Average growth fnmn 1965 to 1975.                                                                                                                        o -
Td January through November - Nut trade sources.
Source:  Gill and Duffus Landauer Ltd., Edible Nut Statistics, December 1978.



ANNEX 1
Table 6.4
52 -
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Cashewnut Kernel Prices
(US$ ton)
--------320 Wholes ---------    -----Large White Pieces-----
Current -   Constant 1978 2/   Current -/  Constant 1978 -
1958          1,014.12        2,240.90             -              -
1959          1,036.17        2,351.08             -              -
1960          1,190.49        2,698.23             -              -
1961          1,080.26        2,408.03             -              -
1962            970.03        2,141.14             -              -
1963          1,036.17        2,272.29             -              -
1964          1,366.86        3,003.99             -              -
1965          1,344.82        2,856.50             -              -
1966          1,543.23        3,093.32             -              -
1967          1,322.77        2,683.24             -              -
1968          1,521.19        3,019.30             -              -
1969          1,455.05        2,750.76             -              -
1970          1,631.42        2,954.76          892.86         1,617.11
1971          1,609.37        2,856.17          947.98         1,682.39
1972          1,631.42        2,739.51          954.59         1,602.96
1973          2,248.71        3,080.02        1,554.25         2,128.82
1974          2,557.35        3,035.46        1,289.70         1,530.81
1975          2,469.17        2,743.00        1,102.30         1,224.54
1976          2,689.63        3,065.12        1,592.83         1,815.19
1977          4,673.79        5,094.45        2,425.07         2,643.33
1978          4,100.59        4,100.59        2,105.40         2,105.40
1/  Average price quotations in the New York market ( C & F futures)
21 Deflated by the Wholesale Price Index for Processed Foods and Feeds
of the U.S. Department of Labor.
Sources: 320 Wholes: Indian Cashew Journal Vol.XI, No. 4.
Large White Pieces: Cashew Trade



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Price Relationship Between Processing Mix of Cashew Kernels and 320 Wholes
Kerala Processors          Andhra Pradesh Processors
Price                        Factor to Ad-                  Factor to Ad-
Relationship         Average    just Mixture to    Average   just Mixture to
Kernel Grade            (320 = 1)           Outturn %  320 Wholes %         Outturn % 320 Wholes %
180 Wholes                     1.06                 0.5           0.53                -             -
210    "                       1.05                 3.0           3.15              5.7          5.99
240    "                       1.03                13.4          13.80              6.5          6.70
320    "                       1.00                58.5          58.50             41.9         41.90
450    "                       0.98                 9.6           9.41              9.5          9.31
Scorched Wholes                0.97                 2.0           1.94              3.2          3.10
Scorched Wholes Seconds        0.92                   -              -                 -            -
87.0         87.63              66.8        66.99
Butts                          0.88                 6.8           5.98                 -             -
Splits
Large White Pieces             0.80                 4.4           3.52             13.6         10.88
Scorched Butts
Splits                0.70                 0.9           0.63             17.6         12.32
Pieces
Small White Pieces             0.48                 0.2           0.10              1.0          0.48
Scorched Small Pieces
Scorched Pieces Seconds        0.46                 0.7           0.03              1.0          0.46
13.0         10.26              33.2        24.14
Total Kernels                                     100.0          97.89            100.0         91.13



ANNEX 1
- 54 -                                 Table 6.6
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Financial Price Projections 1/
(Price per ton)
--  1985               -  -------- 1990 ---------
Kerala   Andhra Pradesh   Kerala   Andhra Pradesh
(Public   (Private          (Public   (Private
Sector)   Processors)       Sector)   Processors)
Kernels
320 Whole Kernels CIF New York          US$ 4,360    US$ 4,360    US$ 4,817    US$ 4,817
Adjustment Factor for Grade Mix                .98           .91           .98            .91
Adjusted Value CIF New York                  4,273         3,968         4,721         4,383
Less:  Brokerage (2.5% CIF)                    107            99           118           110
Freight                                 242           242           242           242
Insurance (0.8% CIF)                    34             32            38            35
FOB Cochin/Bombay                       US$ 3,890    US$ 3,595    US$ 4,323    US$ 3,996
Rs 32,675    Rs 30,200    Rs 36,315    Rs 33,565
Raw Nuts
Adjustment Factor for Kernel Recovery        24.2%           23%         24.2%           23%
FOB Raw Nut Equivalent                  Rs  7,910    Rs  6,945    Rs  8,790    Rs  7,720
Less:  Factory Processing Costs 2/           2,465         1,050         2,465         1,050
Purchase Tax 3/                         305           250           355           280
Distribution Costs 4/                   365           260           365           260
Transportation                           65            65            65            65
Storage                                 30             30            30            30
Drying Loss (8%)                        345           390           410           445
Farmgate Price                              Rs  4,335    Rs  4,900    Rs  5,100    Rs  5,590
1/ Expressed in October 1979 constant prices. See para 6.07.
2/ Includes transportation to port and handling charges.
3/ Calculated on cost at factory gate; 5.94% in Kerala, 4.4% in Andhra Pradesh.
4/ Collection and distribution costs of cooperative societies and dealers.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
Rs Million              US$ Million -       % Foreign
Category                         Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total  Exchange
Cashew Production Costs
Smallholder Development           86.1    9.6   95.7      10.2    1.1   11.3
State Corporation Development   61.8    6.9   68.7          7.4    0.8    8.2
Subtotal                    147.9   16.5  164.4       17.6    1.9   19.5       10
Government Departments
Staff Salaries                    15.6      -   15.6        1.9      -    1.9
Vehicles                           3.0    0.2    3.2        0.3    0.1    0.4
Equipment                          1.5    0.1    1.6        0.2      -    0.2
Operating Expenses                 5.2    0.3    5.5       0.6    0.1    0.7
Subtotal                      25.3    0.6   25.9       3.0    0.2    3.2        6
State Corporations
Staff Salaries                    19.3      -   19.3        2.3      -    2.3
Civil Works                       34.6    1.8   36.4        4.1    0.2    4.3
Vehicles                           4.6    0.2    4.8        0.6      -    0.6
Equipment                          3.6    0.2    3.8        0.4      -    0.4
Operating Expenses               _12.3    0.6   12.9        1.5    0.1    1.6
Subtotal                      74.4    2.8   77.2       8.9    0.3    9.2        3
Cashew Industry Study              1.0      -    1.0        0.1      -    0.1       -
Research                           7.6    0.8    8.4        0.9    0.1    1.0      10
Training                           0.5      -    0.5        0.1      -    0.1       -
Orissa Pilot Coastal
Dunes Scheme                      1.4    0.2    1.6        0.2      -    0.2      10
Kerala Feeder Roads               16.3    0.9   17.2        1.9    0.1    2.0       5
Base Cost Estimate.              274.4   21.8  296.2       32.7    2.6   35.3       7
Physical Contingencies 2/        _ 7.0    0.2    7.2        0.9      -    0.9
Price Contingencies  3/           74.4    5.8   60.2        8.8    0.7    9.5
Total Project Costs              355.8   27.8  383.6      42.4    3.3   45.7        7
1/  Rs. 8.4 = US$1.
2/  10% for civil works; 5% for vehicles, equipment and incremental operating
expenses.
3/  10% for 1980, 7% annually for 1981-1983, 5% for 1984; calculated on base cost
estimate plus physical contingencies.



- 56 -
AiNNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Projected Phasing of Project Costs
(Rs million)
Indian FY 79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  Total
Cashew Production Costs
Smallholder Development                -       2.1    9.8   20.3   30.1   33.4   95.7
State Corporation Development          -       1.6    7.6   15.1   21.6   22.8   68.7
Subtotal                               -       3.7   17.4   35.4   51.7   56.2  164.4
Government Departments
Staff Salaries                         0.3    2.2    3.2    3.3    3.3    3.3   15.6
Vehicles                                0.7    1.3    1.2    -       -      -       3.2
Equipment                              0.1    0.4    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.2    1.6
Operating Expenses                     0.1    0.7    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.2    5.5
Subtotal                               1.2    4.6    5.8    4.8    4.8    4.7   25.9
State Corporations
Staff Salaries                         0.1    1.3    2.8    4.3    5.4    5.4   19.3
Civil Works                            -       5.2    8.7    8.6    7.3    6.6   36.4
Vehicles                                0.1    1.0    1.1    1.1    1.1    0.4    4.8
Equipment                              -       0.4    0.9    1.0    1.0    0.5    3.8
Operating Expenses                     0.1    0.7    1.6    2.6    3.7    4.2   12.9
Subtotal                               0.3    8.6   15.1   17.6   18.5   17.1   77.2
Cashew Industry Study                   -       -      0.5    0.5    -       -      1.0
Research                                -       0.4    1.3    2.5    2.5    1.7    8.4
Training                                -       -      0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.5
Orissa Pilot Coastal Dunes Scheme       -       0.1    0.2    0.4    0.4    0.5    1.6
Kerala Feeder Roads                     -       0.9    3.4.   5.1    5.2    2.6   17.2
BASE COST ESTIMATE                      1.5   18.3   43.8   66.4   83.2   83.0  296.2
Physical Contingencies 1/               0.1    0.9    1.5    1.7    1.7    1.3    7.2
Expected Price Increases 2/             0.1    1.0    6.3   14.9   25.8   32.1   80.2
Total Estimated Project Cost            1.7   20.2   51.6   83.0  110.7  116.4  383.6
US$ Equivalent (Million) 3/             0.2    2.4    6.1    9.9   13.2   13.9   45.7
1/ 10% for civil works; 5% for vehicles, equipment and incremental operating
expenses.
2/ 10% for 80/81, 7% for the next three years and 5% for 84/85. Calculated on
base cost estimate plus physical contingencies.
3/ Rs 8.4 = US$1.



- 57 -                                                             ANNEX 2
Table 3.1
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Kerala: Smallholder Component Cost Estimates
Indian FY:                 79/80               80/81       81/82       82/83       83/84       84/85       TOTAL
INCRENTAL PRODUCTION COSTS              Project Year:           (Pre-Operations)--           1           2           3           4           5         COST
New Plantations: 10,000 ha
- ha planted                                                                               500       2,000       3,000       3,000       1,500           -
Cost (Rs 1000)                                                                               680       3,330       7,225      11,045      12,410       34,690
Sprayers 3/ (Rs '000)                                                                         75         300         450         450          225       1,500
Total                                                                                   755       3,630       7,675      11,495      12,635       36,190
Annual 4
INCREMENTAL STAFF                      No.   Salary             ----------------------Rs '000_---_-------------
Addt'l Director                           1   20,000             tl)           7          (1)  20           20         20          20          20          107
Deputy Director                          3   16,200              (1)           5          (3)  49          49         49          49           49          250
Asat. Director                            3   13,700             (1)           5          (3)  41           41         41          41          41          210
SMS Cashews                              6   13,700             (3)           14          (6)  82          82         82          82           82          424
Credit Specialist, EQ                    1   13,700              (1)           5          (1)  14          14         14           14          14           75
Jr. Agric. Officers (JAOs)                7   10,600             (2)           7          (4)  42    (7)  74          74           74          74          345
Agric. Demonstrators (ADa)              50    5,300             (10)          18         (30) 159   (50) 265         265          265         265        1,237
Nursery Supervisors                     20    5,300              (5)           9         (10)  53   (20) 106         106         106          106          486
UDCs                                     4    6,700             (1)            2          (3)  20    (4)  27          27          27          27           130
Stenographers                            1    6,700             (1)            2          (1)   7           7           7           7           7           37
LDCs                                    10    5,800              (2)           4          (6)  35   (10)  58          58          58           58          271
Typists                                  5    5,300              (2)           3          (5)  26          26         26          26           26          133
Drivers                                 12    5,000             (2)            3          (8)  40   (12)  60          60          60           60          283
Attendants, Watchmen                    10    4,200              (4)           6          (8)  34   (10)  42           42          42          42          208
Cotal                             133                     (36)          90         (87) 622  (133) 871          871         871         871        4,196
VEHICLES                               No.   Unit Coet
Jeeps with Trailers                      8   67,000             (2)         134           (4) 268    (2) 134           -           -            -         536
Trucks (7 ton)                           3  175,000              -             -          (1) 175    (2) 350           -            -           -          525
Motorcycles (for J,A.Os)                  7    8,000             (2)          16          (2)  16    (3)  24            -           -           -           56
Bicycles (for ADs)                      35       550           (10)            8         (10)   6   (15)   8           -            -           -           20
Subtotal                                                               156              465          516          -           -           -        1,137
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                                         8                23          26         _      -                 -           57
Total                                                                  164               488         542         _      -                 -        1,194
EQUIPMENT                              No.   Unit Cost
Motorized Sprayers                      50    1,500                            -                8          15         22           30           -           75
Furniture and Office Equip.              -         -                          10               60          35         35          35           35          210
Misc. Equipment                          -         -                          10               60          25         25          25           25          170
Subtotal                                                                20               128          75         82          90          60          455
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                                         1                 6           4          4           5           3           23
Total                                                                   21               134          79         86          95          63          478
INCREMENTAL OPERATING EXPENSE
Vehicles and Equipsent 5/                                                      9              115         204        216         230         239        1,013
Staff Travel Allowances -14                                                                    99         131        131         131         131           637
Office Expenses                         Rs 4,000ldistrict                      5               16          16         16          16           16           85
Subtotal                                                                28               230         351        363         377         386        1,735
Phys. Cont. (5O)                                                         1                12          18         18          19          19           87
Total                                                                   29               242         369        381         396         405        1,822
Total Excluding Phys. Cont.                                                  294            2,200       5,443      8,991      12,833      13,952       43,713
Phys. Cont.                                                 10                41          48         22          24          22          16 7
TOTAL COST                                                             304            2,241        5.491      9,013      12.857      13,974       43,880
1/  Salaries and expenditures for four months, based on estimated start-up pace of recruitment.
2/ For derails, see Annex 4, Table 2 (note footnote 6) . Wage rate Rs 10/workday.
3/ Rand-operated sprayers (Rs 600) estimated to be purchased by 25h of smallholders.
4/ Kerala Department of Agriculture, Cashews. For administration in four districts of 10,000 ha new plantations. Salaries include allowances.
5/ Estimated at 15% of accumulated capital investment per annum.
6/ Estimated at Rs 5,000 for Addt'l and Dep. Dir., Rs 3,000 for SMS, Credit Specialist and Asst. Dir., Rs 2,200 for JAO, Rs 1,200 for AD and
Rs 500 for drivers per annum.



- 58 -
INDIA                                                     ANNEX 2
Table 3.2
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Karnataka: Smallholder Component Cost Estimates
Indian FY:            79/80,         80/81          81/82          82/83          83/84          84/85         TOTAL
2/         Project Year:               0              1              2              3              4              5           COST
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION COSTS -                                                                                                     __
New Plantations: 7,500 ha
- ha planted                                                                         375          1,500         2,250          2,250          1,125            -
- cost (Rs '000)                                                                     428          2,014         4,149          6,203          7,024          19,818
Improved Plantations: 2,500 ha
- ha improved                                                                        125            500            750            750           375
- cost (Rs '000)                                                                     117            560         1,171          1,749          1,976           5,573
Total ha Developed:  10,000 ha                                                         500          2,000          3,000          3,000          1,500            -
Cost (Rs '000)                                                                         545          2,574          5,320          7,952          9,000         25,391
Sprayers 3/ (Rs '000)                                                                    75           300            450            450            225           1,500
Total                                   Annual                                   620         2,874          5,770          8,402                         26,891
INCREMENTAL STAFF -No.                         Salary                                                 ___________-Re  ' 000----      -     -     -    -     -     -
Joint Director                           1     21,000                (1)  7        (1)  21             21             21             21             21             112
Deputy Director                          1     19,200                (1)  6        (1)  19             19             19             19             19             101
Senior Asat. Director                    6     15,900                (1)  5        (3)  48        (6)  95             95             95             95             433
SMS Cashew                               3     13,700                (2)  9        (3)  41             41             41             41             41             214
Asst. Hort. Officers (AHOs)             35      11,800               (5) 19       (20) 236       (35) 413            413            413            413           1,907
Hort. Assistants (HAs)                  10       6,800               (2)  4        (5)  34       (10)  68             68             68             68             310
Nursery Supervisors                     20       4,500               (5)  7       (10)  45       (20)  90             90             90             90             412
Superintendent                           1      9,700                (1)  3        (1)  10             10             10             10             10              53
UDCs                                     2       7,800               (1)  3        (2)  16             16             16             16             16              83
LDCs                                     2       6,000               (1)  2        (2)  12             12             12             12             12              62
Stenographers                           2       7,800                (1)  3        (2)  16             16             16             16             16              83
Typists                                  6       6,000               (2)  4        (4)  24        (6)  36             36             36             36             172
Drivers                                  9      4,700                (2)  3        (7)  33        (9)  42             42             42             42             204
Attendants/Watchmen               '    12        3,900               (2)  3        (6)  23       (12)  47             47             47             47             214
Total                           110                          (27) 78       (67) 578    (110) 926              926            926            926           4.360
VEHICLES                              No.      Unit Cost
Sedan                                    1     46,600                (1) 47              -              -              -              -              -              47*
Jeeps with Trailers                      7     67,000                (2)134        (3) 201        (2) 134              -              -              -            469
Trucks (7 ton)                           2    175,000                      -       (1) 175        (1) 175              -              -              -             350
Motorcycles (for AHOs)                  35       8,000               (5) 40       (15) 120       (15) 120              -              -              -             280
Bicycles (for HAs)                     10          550               (2)  1        (3)   2        (5)   3              -              -              -               6
Subtotal                                                          222           498            432              -              -              -          1,152
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                                   11             25            22              -              -              -              58
Total                                                             233            523           454              -              -              -           1,210
EONUIPTEN7                            No.      Unit Cost
Motorized Sprayers                      50       1,500                     -              8            15             22             30              -              75
Furniture and Office Equip.              -           -                    10             45            30             30             30             30             175
Misc. Equipment                          -           -                    10             45            30             30             30             30             175
Subtotal                                                           20             98            75             82             90             60             425
Phys. Cont. (57.)                                                   1              5             4              4              4              3              21
Total                                                              21            103             79            86             94             63             446
INCREMENTAL OPERATING EXPENSE
Vehices an   Equiment5/
Vehicles and Equipsent -l/                                                12            126           202            214            228            237          1,019
Staff Travel Allowances -                                                  9             73           120            120            120            120             562
Office Expenses                                                            3             10            10             10             10             10              53
Subtotal                                                           24            209           332            344            358            367           1,634
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                                    1             11            17             17             18             18              82
Total                                                              25            220           349            361            376            385           1,716
Total Excluding Phys. Cont.                                              344         2,003          4,639          7,122          9,776        10,578          34,462
Phys. Cont.                                             13            41             43             21             22             21             161
TOTAL COST                                                         357         2,044          4,682          7,143          9,798         10,599          34,623
1/  Salaries and expenditures for four months, based on estimated start-up pace of recruitment.
2/ For details, see Annex 4, Tables 2 and 4.
3/  Hand-operated sprayers (Rs 600) estimated to be purchased by 25% of smallholders.
4 K Rarnataka Dept. of Horticulture, Cashews.  Incremental staff required for administering 7,500 ha of new plantations and improvements to 2,500 ha
of existing plantations.
5/ Estimated at 15% annually of accumulated capital investment.
i/ Estimated at Rs 3,000 for eight senior officers; Rs 2,500 for SMIs; Rs 2,000 for AHOs; Rs 1,000 for HAs and Rs 400 for drivers and attendants,
annually.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3.3
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Andhra Pradesh: Smallholder Component Cost Estimates
Indian FYY:        79/80      80/81        81/82    82/83        83/84      84/85         TOTAL
2/          Project Year:           01/         1            2         3          4          5            COST
INC. PRODUCTION COSTS:
New Plantations: 8,000 ha
- ha planted                                                            400        1,600    2,400       2,400      1,200           -
- Cost (Rs '000)                                                        360        1,704    3,558       5,434      6,360        17,416
Improved Plantations: 2,000 ha
- ha improved                                                           100          400       600        600         300          -
- Cost (Rs '000)                                                         75          367       787      1,197      1,389         3,815
Total ha Developed:  10,000 ha                                          500        2,000    3,000       3,000      1,500           -
Cost (Rs '000)                                                          435        2,071    4,345       6,631      7,749        21,231
Sprayers 3/ (Rs '000)                                                    75          300      450         450        225         1,500
Total                                                                510         Z.371    4,795       7.081      7,974        22,731
Annual
INCREMENTAL STAFF Al                No.    Anualy           - - - - - - - - - -              - - - -Rs '000 - - - - - - - - -
Sr. Jt. Director                     1      30,000        (1)  10   (1)  30             30        30         30          30          160
Deputy Directors                     2      20,000        (1)   6   (2)  40             40        40         40          40          206
Asst. Directors it                   6      17,800        (1)   6   (3)  53   (6)  107           107        107         107          4B7
SMS Cashew                           8      17,800        (2)  12   (4)  71   (8)  142           142        142         142          651
Asst. Agric. Officers (AAOs)         8      13,500        (2)   9   (4)  54   (8)  108           108        108         108          495
Sub-Assistants (SAs)                50       6,800       (10)  23  (30) 204  (50)  340           340        340         340        1,587
Superintendent, HQ                   1      12,000        (1)   4   (1)  12             12        12         12          12            64
Nursery Supervisors                 20       6,800        (5)  11  (10)  68  (20)  136           136        136         136           623
lDCs                                 8       7,500        (2)   5   (4)  30   (8)   60            60         60          60          275
lDCs                                12       6,500        (3)   6   (6)  39  (12)   78            78         78          78          357
UD Stenographer                      1       8,000        (1)   3   (1)   8              8         8           8          8            43
LD Stenographer                      1       7,000         -    -   (1)   7              7         7           7          7            35
Typists                              8       7,000        (2)   5   (4)  28   (8)   56            56         56          56          257
Driveris                            10       6,000        (4)   8  (10)  60             60        60         60          60          308
Attendants, Watchmen                15       4,300        (4)   6   (8)  34  (15)   64    _   64             64          64          296
Total                           151                    (39) 114  (89) 738 (151)1,248        1,248       1,248      1,248         5,844
VEHICLES                            No.   Unit Cost
Sedan                                1      46,600        (1)  47          -          -           -          -          -             47
Jeeps with Trailers                  8      67,000        (2) 134   (4) 268   (2)  134            -          -           -           536
Motorcycles (for AAOs)               8       8,000        (2)  16   (2)  16   (4)   32            -          -           -            64
Bicycles (for SAs)                  50         550       (10)   6  (20)  11  (20)   11            -          -           -            28
Subtotal                                                    203        295          177        -           -          -            675
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                             10          15           9       _            -          -             34
Total                                                     213        310          186        -          -           -            709
EQUIPMENT                           No.   Unit Cost
Motorized Spzayers                  50       1,500             -            8           15        22         30          -            75
Furniture and Office Equip.    -               -               10          45          30         30         30         30           175
Misc. Equipment                     -          -               10          45          30         30         30          30          175
Subtotal                                                     20         98           75        82          90         60           425
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                              1           5           4         4           4          3            21
Total                                                        21        103           79        86          94         63           446
INC. OPERATING EXPENSES
Vehicles and Equipment 6/7                                     11          93         131       143         156        165           699
Staff Travel Allowances -                                      17        109          175       175         175        175           826
Office Expenses                                                 4          16          16        16          16         16            84
Subtotal                                                     32        218          322       334         347        356        1,609
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                              2         11           16        17          17         18            81
Total                                                        34        229          338       351         364        374        1,690
Total Excluding Phys. Cont.                                   369      1,859        4,193     6,459      8.766       9,638       31,284
Phys. Cont.                                  13         31           29        21          21         21          136
TOTAL COST                                                  382      1,890        4,222    6,480       8,787       9,659       31,420
1/  Salaries and expenditures for four months, based on estimated start-up pace of recruitment.
2/ For details, see Annex 4, Tables 2 and 4.
3/ Hand-operated sprayers (Rs 600) estimated to be purchased by 25% of smallholders.
4/  A.P. Department of Agriculture, Cashews.  For administration in four districts of 8,000 ha new plantation and
improvement of 2,000 ha existing plantation. Salaries include allowances.
5/  One assistant director will specialize in credit operations.
8/  Estimated at 15% annually of accumulated capital investment.
7/  Estimated at Rs 6,000 for Director; Rs 5,000 for Deputy Directors; Rs 3,600 for Asst. Dir. and SMS;
Rs 2,400 for AAO; Rs 1,200 for SA and Nursery Supervisor; Rs 1,000 for driver, annually.



- 60 -
INDIA                                                          ANNEX 2
Table 3.4
CASNEWNUT PROJECT
Orissa: Smallholder Component Cost Estimates
Indian FY:             79/80         80/81          81/82          82/83          83/84          84/85         Total
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION COSTS                  Project Year:                0 1/           1              2              3              4             5            Cost
New Plantations: 5,000 ha
- ha planted                                                                            250         1,000          1,500          1,500            750
Cost (Res  900)                                                                           170            830         1,814          2,876          3,495         9,185
Sprayers -   (Rs '000)                                                                     38            150            225           225            112           750
Total                                                                              208            980          2,039          3.101         3.607         9.935
Annual
INCREMENTAL STAFF -/                        No.   Salary -- -------------------------------------Rs '000---------------------------------------
Joint Director, Soil Conservation             1   20,000               (1)   7       (1)  20             20              20             20            20           107
Asst. Director                                 1   13,000              (1)   4        (1)  13            13              13             13             13           69
Abat. Soil Conservation Officers               4   13,000              (2)   9        (4)  52            52              52             52             52          269
Agric. Assistants (AAs)                      25    6,500               (5)  11      (15)  98    (25) 162                162            162           162           757
Total                                 31                        (9)  31      (21) 183      (31) 247              247            247           247         1,202
VEHICLES                                    No.   Unit Cost
Jeep with Trailer                             1   67,000              (1)  67               -             -               -              -             -            67
Motorcycles                                  25    8,000               (5)  40      (10)  80    (10)  80                  -              -            _            200
Subtotal                                                            107             80            80               -              -              _          267
Phys. Cont. (52)                                                      5              4             4               -              -            _             13
Total                                                               112             84            84               -              -              -          280
EQUIPMENT                                   No.   Unit Cost
Motorized Sprayers                           25    1,500                     -              3             8              12             12              3           38
Misc. Equipment                               -          -                  20             60            30              30             30            30           200
Subtotal                                                             20             63            38              42            42             33           238
Phys. Cot..  (5%)                                                     1              3             2               2              2              2           12
Total                                                                21             66            40              44             44            35           250
INCREM,ENTAL OPERATING EXPENSES
Vehicles and Equipm6ent7/                                                    6             40            58             65              71            76           316
Staff Travel Allowances -                                                    7             41           63              63             63             63           300
Subtotal                                                             13             81           121            128            134            139           616
Phys. Cont. (52)                                                      1              4             6               6              7              7           31
Total                                                                14             85           127            134            141            146           647
Total Excluding Phys. Cont.                                                171            615        1,466           2,456          3,524          4,026       12,258
Phys. Cont.                                                7             11           12               8           '                 9            56
TOTAL COST                                                          178            626        1.478           2.464          3.533          4.035        12.314
1/  Salaries and expenditures for four months, based on estimated start-up pace of recruitment.
t  For details, see Annex 4, Table 2.  Wage rate Rs 4/workday.
3/ Hand-operated sprayers estimated to be purchased by 252 of smallholders.
4/  Orissa Dept. of Agriculture, Cashews.  Incremental staff required to administer 5,000 ha new plantations in four districts.
5/  Includes allowances.
6/  Estimated at 152 of accumulated capital investment per annum.
7/  Estimated at Rs 5,000 for two senior officers; Rs 3,200 for SMSs; and Rs 1,200 for MAs per annum.



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4.1
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Kerala: State Corporation Component Cost Estimate
1,,              Indian FY-       79/80    80/81       81/82      82/83     83/84      84/85      TOTAL
INC.PRODUCTION COSTS-/                Project Year:       O2/       1          2          3         4          5        COST
New Plantations: 2,275 ha
-ha planted                                            -         100       450        700        700        325        -
-Cost (Rs '000)                                        -         166        869     1.852      2 748      2.722      8
INC. STAFF SALARIES (Rs '000)-                            3         121        237        368       458        458      1,645
CIVIL WORKS-/                    No.   Unit Cost
Buildings                                                   --------Rs '000-------
Plantation Office               3        40             -          40         80          -          -          -       120
Plantation Store                3        50             -          50        100          -          -         _        150
Unit Stations                   3        20             -          20         40          -          -          -        60
Garage/Shed                     3        15             -          30         15          -          -          -        45
Manager's House                 1        50             -          50          -                     _ -                 50
Asst. Managers' Houses          2        30                        30         30                                         60
Jr. Staff Housing              50        20                        80        160        200       260        300      1,000
Labor Housing                  75         7.5           -          60         60         90       125        225        560
Roads (1 km/35 ha) 5/            65 km    25/km           _         200        350        400       400        275      1,625
Utilities and Services          1,000/plantation          -         100        250        250        250       150      1000
Subtotal                                         -         660      1,085        940     1,035        950      4,670
Phys. Cont.(10%)                                            66        108         94        103         95       466
Total                                    -          726     1,193      1,034      1,138      1,045     5,136
VEHICLES                         No.   Unit Cost
Jeeps with Trailers               3        67             -         134         67          -          -         _        201
Mobile Medical Units               1       75             -          75          -          -          -          -        75
Motorcycles                       3         8             -           8         16         _                               24
Subtotal                                          -        217         83          -          -          -       300
Phys. Cont.(5%)                                   -         11          4         _           -          -        15
Total                                               228         87         -          -          -
EQUIPMENT                        No.   Unit Cost
Pump Sets                         4           8           -           8          8          8          8          -        32
Tools                             -           -           -          10         20         30         30        20        110
Office Furn. and Equip.           -           -           -          10         20         20         20        20         90
Misc. Equipment                                           -           5         10         20         20        20         75
Subtotal                                          -         33         58         78         78         60       307
Phys. Cont.(5%)                                   -          2          2          4          4          3        15
Total                                                35         _         _9 _3
INC. OPERATING EXPENSES
Staff Allowanices 6/                                       1         13         21         33        42         42        152
0 & M CW, Vehicles and Equip. 7/                           -         28         76       172        236        300        812
Office Expenses 8/                                         5         35         78        90         90         90        388
Subtotal                                           6         76       175        295        368       432      1,352
Phys. Cont.(5%)                                    -          4         9         15         18         22        68
Total                                      6         80       184        310        386        454     1.420
Total Excluding Phys. Cont.                                9      1,273      2,507     3,533      4,687      4,622    16,631
Phys. Cont.                               -         83        123       113        125        120        564
TOTAL COST                                                 9      1,356      2,630     3,646      4,812      4,742    17,195
1/For details, see Annex 4, Table 2.
2/Salaries and expenditures for four months, based on estimated start-up pace of recruitment.
3/For details, see Table 5.1.
4/For details, see Table 4.3, footnotes 4-13.
5JIncludes access roads to plantations, requiring some culverts and causeways.
6/10Z of salaries for medical service and travel allowances.
7/Calculated on accumulated capital investment at 5% on civil works and 15% on vehicles and equipment.
8/Rs 45,000 for hQ, Rs 45,000 for three plantation offices annually from year 2.



- 62 -
INDIA                                               ANNEX 2
Table 4.2
CASHEWNU'T PROJECT
Karnataka:  State Corporation Component Cost Estimates
Indian FY:    79/801   80/81       81/82      82/83      83/84     84/85      TOTAL
INC. PRODUCTION COSTS -            Project Year:      0 -        I1        2          3          4          5       COST
New Plantations: 2,500 ha
- ha planted                                        -          125        500       750        750        375       -
- Cost (Rs '000)                                    -          179       816      1,600      2,283     2,447      7,325
Improved Plantations: 500 ha
- ha improved                                       -           25       100        150        150         75       -
- Cost (Rs '000)                                    -           29       134        263        373        398     1,197
Total ha Developed: 3,000 ha                        -          150        600       900        900        450       -
Total Cost (Rs '000)                                _          208        950     1,863      2,656     2,845      8,522
INC. STAFF SALARIES 1/                                8          206       344        515        714        714     2,501
CIVIL WORFS                   No.      Unit Cost      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Rs '000 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Buildings
Plantation Offices            2          30         -           30         30       -          -          -          60
Plantation Stores             2          30         -          -           30        30        -          -          60
Unit Stations                4           15         -          -           30        15         15        -          60
Garage/Sheds                 4           15         -          -          30         15         15       -           60
Managers' Houses              2          50         -           50         50       -          -          -         100
Asst. Managers' Houses        4          30         -           30         30        60        -         -          120
Jr. Staff Housing           80           15         -          120       240        240        300        300     1,200
Labor Housing              150            7.5       -         150        225        225        225        300     1,125
Roads ( 1 km/35 ha)          100           10/km      -          150       200        200        200        250     1,000
Utilities and Services            750/plantation      -          200        325       325        325        325     1,500
Subtotal                                            -          730     1,190      1,110      1,080     1,175      5,285
Phys. Cont. (10%)                                   -           73       119        111        108        118       529
Total'                                            -          803     1,309      1,221     1,188      1,293      5,814
VEHICLES                      No.      Unit Cost
Jeeps with Trailers             2          67         -           67         67       -          -         -          134
Trucks (7-ton)                  2         175         -          -         -          175        175        -         350
Mobile Medical Units            2           75        -           75        -         -           75        -         150
Motorcycles                     4           8         -           16         16       -          -          -           32
Subtotal                                            -          158        83        175        250       -          666
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                    -            8          4         9         12       -           33
Total                                             -         166         87        184        262       -          699
EQUIP_ENT                     No.      Unit Cost
Motorized Sprayers             75            1.5      -            6         22        34         34         16       112
Pump Sets                       5            8        -            8          8         8          8          8         40
Tools                           -          -          -           10         20        30         30         20        110
Office Furn. and Equip.         -          -          -           20         30        40         40         20       150
Nisc. Equipment                 -          -          -           20         20        30         30         20        120
Subtotal                                            -           64       100        142        142         84       532
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                   _             3          5         7          7          4        26
Total                                            _            67       105        149        149         88       558
INC. OPERATING EXPENSES
Staff Allowances 5/                                   1           20        34         51         71         71       248
O & M CW, Vehicles and Equip-6                        -           33         97       204        319        385     1,038
Office Expenses 7/                                   10           50         90        90         90         90       420
Subtotal                                           11          103       221        34I 5                S3       T
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                    1            5        11         17         24         27        85
Total                                            12          108       232        362        504        573     1,791
Total Excluding Phys. Cont.                          19        1,469     2,888      4,150      5,322     5,364    19,212
Phys. Cont.                          1           89        139       144        151        149       673
TOTAL COST                                           20        1,558      3,027     4,294      5,473      5,513    19,885
1/ For details, see Annex 4, Tables 2 and 4.
2/ Salaries and expenditures for four months, based on estimated start-up pace of recruitment.
3/ For details, see Table 5.2
4/ For details, see Table 4.3, footnotes 4 - 13.
5/ 10% of salaries for medical and social services and travel allowances.
6/ Calculated on accumulated capital investment at 5E on civil works and 15% on vehicles and equipment.
7/ Rs 50,000 for HQ, Rs 20,000 for each plantation office annually from Year 2.



- 63 -
INDIA                                                    ANNEX 2
CASHEWNUT PROJECT                                               Table 4.3
Andhra Pradesh: State Corporation Component Cost Estimates
Indian FY:      79/80      80/81      81/82      82/83      83/84       84/85      TOTAL
INC. PRODUCTION COSTS                   Project Year:       0  2/      1           2          3          4          5         COST
New Plantations: 8,000 ha
- ha planted                                              -          400      1,600       2,400      2,400      1,200        -
- Cost (Rs '000)                                          -           632     2,952       5,830      8,026      8,126    25,566
INC. STAFF SALARIES-/                                         42        480       424       1,iio      2,025      2,025      6,092
CIVIL WORKS                        No.      Unit_Cost       - - - - - - - - - - -            Rs '000 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Buildings              4/
Plantation Offices47              4           35          -            35         35         35         35         -         140
Plantation Stores -               4           35          -          -            35         35         35         35        140
Unit Stations 5/                  8           17.5        -           20          35         35         35         15        140
Garage/Sheds 6/                   4           29          -          -            29         29         29         29        116
Guest Houses 7/                   4           29          -          -            29         29         29         29        116
Managers' Houses 8/               4           58          -            58         58         58         58        -          232
Asst. Managers' Nouses 9/         8           35          -           70          70         70         70        -          280
Jr. Staff Housing 10/           230           17.5        -          500        850         850        850        975      4,025
Labor Housing 11/               400            5.8        -          350        460         460        460        590      2,320
Roads (1 km/35 ha) 12/            250 km        12/km       -           400        650        650        650        650      3,000
Utilities and Servicea 13/              850/plantation    -             500        650        750        750        750      3,400
Subtotal                                                  -        1,933      2,901      3,001      3,001      3,073    13,909
Phys. Coot. (10%)                                         -          193        290         300        300        307     1,390
Total                                                   -        2,126      3,191      3,301      3,301      3,380    15,299
VEHICLES                           No.      Unit Cost
Sedan                               1           47           47        -          -           -          -          -           47
Jeeps with Trailers                 4           67          -            67         67         67         67        -          268
Mobile Medical Units                4           75           -           75         75         75         75        -          300
Motorcycles                        10             8         -            16         16         16         16         16         80
Tractors with Equipment            16          120          -          240        480         480        480        240      1,920
Subtotal                                                   47        398        638        638        638         256     2,615
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                            2         20         32          32         32         13        131
Total                                                    49        418        670        670        670        269      2,746
EQUIPMENT                          No.      Unit Cost
Motorized Sprayers                200            1.5        -            20         75         90         90         25        300
Pump Sets                          12            8          -            16         16         32         32         -          96
Tools                               -           -           -            25         50         50         30         20        175
Office Furniture and Equip.         -           -           -            25         75         75         75         50        300
Misc. Equip.                        -           -           -            25         75         75         75         50        300
Subtotal                                                  -          111        291        322         302        145     1,171
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                          -             6         15         16         15          7         59
Total                                                   -          117        306        338        317        152      1,230
INC. OPERATING EXPENSES
Staff Allowances 14/'                                         4         48          92        141        202        202        689
O & M CW, Vehicles and Equip.  15/                             2         83        320        609        900      1,110      3,024
Office Expenses 16/                                           20         60         80         80         80         80        400
Subtotal                                                   26        191        492        830      1,182      1,392      4,113
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                            1         10          25         41         59         70        206
Total                                                    27        201        517        871      1,241      1,462      4,319
Total Excluding Phys. Cont.                                 115      3,745      8,198    12,027    15,174    15,017    54,276
Phys. Cont.                                  3        229        362        389        406        397      1,786
TOTAL COST                                                  118      3,974      8,560    12,416    15,580    15,414    56,062
1/  For details, see Annex 4, Tables 2 and 4.  Includes Rs 800 in years 1 - 2 for additional land development, primarily
de-stumping.
2!  Salaries and expenditures for four months, based on estimated start-up pace of recruitment.
3/  For details, see Table 5.3
4/  600 sq. ft.  permanent construction of plastered brick walls with wooden doors and window and RCC roof.
5/  300 sq. ft.  See footnote 4.
6/ 1,000 sq. ft. Brick construction with corrugated iron sheet roofing.
7/ 600 sq. ft. Two rooms with dining facility. See footnote 4.
8/ 1,000 sq. ft. See footnote 4.
9/  600 sq. ft.  See footnote 4.
10/  500 sq. ft.  Semi-permanent construction of plastered brick walls with tile roof.
11/  200 sq. ft. per family, built in five family units.  Semi-permanent construction of brick walls with wood
and tiled or asbestos sheet roof.
12/  Fair weather access roads, 3-4m wide, with side drainage.
13/  Water supply, electricity, health station, community center.
14/  10% of salaries for medical services and travel allowances.
15/ Calculated on accumulated capital investment at 5% on civil works and 15% on vehicles and equipment.
16/ Rs 100,000 for HQ, Rs 75,000 for four plantation offices.



-64 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4.4
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Orissa: State Corporation Component Cost Estimates
1/       Indian FY             79/80 2/         80/81   81/82    82/83    83/84   84/85    TOTAL
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION COSTS            Project Year              0  -            1       2          3         4         5      COST
1. New Plantatons: 10,500 ha
- ha Planted                                       -              525    2,100    3,150    3,150   1,575
- Cost (Rs'000)                                    -              499    2,289    4,554    6,681   7,504    21,527
2. Improved Plantations: 2,500 ha
- ha Improved                                      -              125       500       750       750      375          -
- Cost (Rs'000)                                    -              109       512    1,032    1,493   1,643         4,789
Total ha Developed: 13,000 ha                                -              650    2,600    3,900    3,900   1,950              -
Total Cost (Rs'000)                                          -              608    2,801    5,586    8,174   9,147    26,316
INCREMENTAL STAFF SALARIES   3/                                   41             586    1,251    1,864    2,237   2,237          8,216
CIVIL WORKS  4/                               Unit Cost
Buildings                               No.    (Rs'000)
Plantation Offices                     7        30              -               30        60        60        30       30        210
Plantation Stores                      7        30              -               60        90        60         -        -        210
Unit Stations                         13        15              -               15        45        45        45       45        195
Garage/Sheds                           7        15              -               _         30        30        30       15        105
Managers' Houses                       3        50               -              50        50        50          -       -        150
Asst. Managers' Houses                 5        30               -              30        30        30         30       30        150
Jr. Staff Housing                   120         15              -              540       630       630         -        -      1,800
Labor Housing                        200         7.5            -              450       525       525         -        -      1,500
Roads (1 km/35 ha)                     400 km   10/km              -             400    1,000    1,000    1,000         600      4,000
Utilities and Services                    600/plantation           -             420    1,050    1,050    1,050         630      4,200
Subtotal                                                  -           1,995    3,510    3,480    2,185   1,350    12,520
Phys, Cont. (10%)                                         -             200       351       348       218      135      1,252
Total                                                       2,195    3,861    3,828    2,403   1,485    13,772
Unit Cost
VEHICLES                               _Nbm    (s'000)
Sedan                                    1        47             47                -          -         -         -        -        47
Jeeps with Trailers                      7        67               -              67       134       134       134         -       469
Mobile Medical Units                     7        75               -              75       150        150        75       75        525
Motorcycles                             15         8                              24        24         24        24       24       120
Subtotal                                                 47             166       308       308       233       99      1,161
Phya. Cont. (5%)                                          3                8       15        15         12        5         58
Total                                          50             174       323       323       245      104      1,219
Unit Cost
EQUIPMENT                               No.    (Rs'000)
Motorized Sprayers                     350         1.5             -              50       125       125       125      100         525
Pump Sets                               20         8               -              16        40        40        40       24        160
Tools                                    -         -               -               30       40        80         80       30        260
Office Furniture and Equip.              -         -               -              50       100       125        125      50         450
Misc. Equipment                          -         -              -                50      100        100        50      30         350
Subtotal                                                  -             196       405       4-70      420      254      1,7;5
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                          -              10        20        23         21       13         87
Total                                           -             206       425       493       441      267      1,832
OPERATING EXPENSES
Staff Allowances  5/                                              12             176       375        559      671        671    2,464
O & M Civilworks, Vehicles and Equip. 6/                           2              54       261       553        825       987    2,682
Office Expenses  7/                                               30              80       120       120        150       150       650
Subtotal                                                 44             310        756    1,232    1,646    1,808    5
Phys. Cont. (5%)                                          2              16         38       62         82        90       290
Total                                          46              326       794    1,294    1,728    1,898    6,086
Total Excluding Physical Contingencies                           132           3,861    9,031   12,940   14,895   14,895   55,754
Physical Contingencies                           5              234       424       448       333       243    1,687
TOTAL COST                                                       137           4,095    9,455   13,388   15,228   15,138   57,441
2] For details, see Annex 4, Tables 2 and 4. Wage rate Rs 4/workday.
2/ Salaries and expenditures for four months, based on estimated start-up pace of recruitment.
3/ For details, see Table 5.4
4/ For details, see Table 4.3, footnotes 4-13. Housing to be provided for approximately one-third of the staff with a housing
allowance for the rest.
5/ 50% of Salaries for housing allowances (see footnote 4), medical services and travel allowances.
6/ Calculated on accumulated capital investment at 5% on civil works and 15% on vehicles and equipment.
7/ Rs 125,000 for HQ, Rs 75,000 for plantation offices.



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5.1
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
KERALA: STATE CORPORATION STAFFING PATTERN 1/
(Rs'000)
Annual    Year o 2/    Year 1         Year 2        Year 3       Years 4-5  TOTAL
No. Salary (No.) Cost (No.) Cost (No.) Cost (No.) Cost (No.) Cost COST
HEAD OFFICE
Accountant                  1    12         -      -      -      -     (1)   12    (1)   12       (1)   12       48
Steno/typist                1      6        -      -      -     -     (1)     6    (1)      6    (1)      6     24
Office Assistant            1      6        -      -      -      -    (1)    6    (1)    6    (1)         6      24
Subtotal             3               -      -      -      -     (3)   24    (3)   24    (3)   24          96
FIELD MANAGEMENT
Asst. Managers 3/           5    12         -      -    (2)   24    (4)   48    (5)   60    (5)   60    252
Supervisors                10      5.4      -      -    (2)   11    (4)   22    (8)   43   (10)   54    184
Foremen                    20      4.8      -      -    (4)   19    (8)   38   (16)   77   (20)   96    326
Subtotal           35               -      -    (8)   54   (16)  108   (29)  180   (35)  210    762
FIELD OFFICE
Office Superintendent    1         9       (1)     3    (1)      9    (1)     9    (1)      9    (1)      9     48
Accountant                  1    10.2       -      -     (1)   10     (1)   10    (1)   10    (1)   10          50
Works Supervisor            1      5.4      -      -    (1)      6    (1)    6    (1)       6    (1)    6        30
Typist                      1      5.4      -      -    (1)    5    (1)    5    (1)    5    (1)           5      25
Attendants/Watchmen         4      4.2      -      -    (1)    4       (2)    8     (3)   13    (4)   17        59
Drivers                     2      5.4      -      -    (1)    5       (2)   11    (2)   11    (2)   11         49
Subtotal           10              (1)    3    (6)   39    (8)   49    (9)   54   (10)   58    261
UNIT STATIONS
Office Assistants          12      5.4      -      -    (2)   11    (4)   22    (8)   43   (12)   65    206
Attendants/Watchmen        24      4.2      -      -    (4)   17    (8)   34   (16)   67   (24)  101           320
Subtotal           36               -      -     (6)   28   (12)   56   (24)  110   (36)  166    526
TOTAL                      84              (1)     3   (20)  121   (39)  237   (65)  368   (84)  458  1,645
1/  Estimated incremental staff required for management of 2,275 ha cashew development, based on
one plantation made up of approximately 200 ha units, in six locations within three districts.
2/  Salaries for four months, based on estimated start-up pace of recruitment.
3/ Of which three posts for construction engineers deputed from state PWD for construction period only.



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5.2
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
KARNATAKA: STATE CORPORATION STAFFING PATTERN 1'
Annual    Year o 2/    Year 1         Year 2        Year 3      Years 4-5  TOTAL
No.  Salary  (No.) Cost  (No.) Cost  (No.) Cost  (No.) Cost  (No.) Cost  COST
HEAD OFFICE 3/
General Manager                 1    24.0        -    -       (1)  24      (1)  24       (1)   24       (1)  24      120
Plantation Managers             2    19.2       (1)   6      (2)  38       (2)  38       (2)   38      (2)  38       196
Asst. Managers                  4      9.6       -    -       (2)  19      (3)  29       (4)   38      (4)  38       162
Supervisors                    20      6         -    -      (5)  30    (10)  60    (15)   90         (20) 120       420
Foremen                        40      4.8       _    -      (5)  24       (5)  48    (20)   96    (40)  192         552
Subtotal                     66              (1)   6    (14) 111        (25) 175     (41)  262      (56) 388   1,330
FIELD OFFICES
Office Superintendents          2      7.2      (1)   2    (1)       7     (2)  14       (2)   14       (2)  14       65
Affcc Suntants     de ts        2    10.2              -     (1)   10      (1)  10       (2)   20       (2)  20       80
Works Supervisors               2      6         -    -    (1)    6        (2)  12       (2)   12       (2)  12       54
Typists                         2      4.8       -    -      (1)    5      (2)  10       (2)   10       (2)  10       45
Attendants/Hiatchmcn            8      3.6       -    -      (2)    7      (4)  14       (6)   22       (8)  29      101
Drivers                        .4    4.8         -    -      (2)   10      (4)  19       (4)   19       (4)  19       86
Subtotal                     .0               (1)   2    (8)   45    (15)  79    (18)   97    (20) 104             431
UNIT STATIONS
office Assistants              15      6         -    -      (2)   12      (5)  30      (060    (15)  90             2382
Attendants                     15      3.6       _    _     (4)    14   (10)  36    (20)   72    (30)  10            38
Subtotal                     45               -    -    (6)   26    (15)  66    (30)  132           (45) 198       620
TOTAL                       132               (2)   8   (29)  206    (56) 344    (90)  515   (132) 714   2,501
1/  Estimate of inc1ciCfntaI staff required for management of 3,000 ha cashew development, based on two
plantations madc ug of 200 ha units.
2/ Salaries for foir rnonths, based on estimated start-up pace of recruitmen.
3/ Mangalore.



- 67 -
INDIA                                                      ANNEX 2
CASHEWNUT PROJECT                                                 Table 5.3
Andhra Pradesh: State Corporation Staffing Pattern 1/
(Rs '000)
Annual      Year 0 2/       Year 1           Year 2          Year 3         Years 4-5    TOTAL
HEAD OFFICE                 No.    Salary    (No.) Cost       (No.)  Cost    (No.)  Cost    (No.)  Cost    (No.)  Cost    COST
General Manager               1       33        (1)   11         (1)     33      (1)     33      (1)     33       (1)    33      176
Financial Controller          1       16         (1)    5        (1)    16       (1)     16      (1)    16       (1)    16         85
Chief Engineer                1       20        (1)     7        (1)     20      (lj     20      (1)     20      (1)     20      107
Commercial Manager            1       13.5       -    -         -       -        (1)     14      (1)     14      (1)     14        56
Chief Accountant              1       13.5       -    -          (1)     14      (1)     14      (1)     14      (1)    14         70
Asst. to the Gen. Man.        1       12        (1)     4        (1)    12       (1)    12       (1)     12      (1)    12         64
Asst. Engineers               2       15         -    -          (1)    15       (2)     30      (2)     30      (2)    30       135
Office Superintendents        2       11.5       -    -          (1)     12      (1)    12       (2)     23      (2)    23        93
Jr. Clerks                    4        7.5      (1)     2        (1)      8      (2)    15       (3)     22      (4)     30      107
Accountants                   2       11.5       -    -          (1)    12       (1)    12       (2)     23      (2)    23         93
Jr. Accountants               4        7.5       -    -          (2)    15       (2)    15       (3)     22      (4)    30       112
Steno/Typists                4         7        (1)     2       (1)       7      (2)    14       (3)     21      (4)    28       100
Attendants/Watchmen           8        4        (2)     2        (2)      8      (4)     16      (6)     24      (8)    32       114
Driver                        1        6         (1)    2        (1)      6      (1)      6      (1)      6      (1)      6        32
Subtotal                  33                  (9)   35       (15)   178      (21)   229       (28)   280      (33)    311   1,344
FIELD MANAGEMENT
Plantation Managers           4       20        (1)     7        (1)    20       (2)    40       (3)     60      (4)    80       287
Asst. Managers                8       11.5       -    -          (2)     23      (4)    46       (6)     69      (8)    92       322
Supervisors                 40         7         -    -         (6)    42       (15)   105      (25)   175      (40)   280       882
Foremen                      80        5.2       -    -        (12)      62     (30)   156      (50)   260      (80)   416   1,310
Subtotal                 132                  (1)     7      (21)   147      (51)    347      (84)    564    (132)    868   2,801
FIELD OFFICES
Office Superintendents    4           11.5       -    -          (1)     12      (2)    23       (3)     34      (4)    46       161
Accountants                   4       11.5       -    -          (1)    12       (2)    23       (3)     34      (4)    46       161
Works Supervisors             4        7         -    -          (1)      7      (2)     14      (3)     21      (4)     28        98
Typists                       4        6.5       -    -          (1)      6      (2)     13      (3)     20      (4)    26        91
Attendants/Watchmen          16        4         -    -          (4)     16      (8)     32     (12)     48     (16)     64      224
Drivers                       6        6         -    -          (2)    12       (3)    18       (5)     30      (6)    36       132
Subtotal                  38                   -    -        (10)     65     (19)   123      (29)   187       (38)    246      867
UNIT STATIONS
Office Assistants            40        7         -    -          (6)    42      (15)   105      (25)   175      (40)   280       882
Attendants/Watchmen          80        4         -    -         (12)     48     (30)   120      (50)   200      (80)   320   1,008
Subtotal                 120                                 (18)     90     (45)   225      (75)    375    (120)    600   1,890
Total                    323                 (10)            (64)   480    (136)    924   (216) 1,406    (323) 2,025   6,902
1/ Estimated incremental staff required for management of 8,000 ha cashew development, based on 2,000 ha
plantations made up of 200 ha units.
2/ Salaries for four months, based on estimated start-up pace of recruitment.



- 68 -
INviDIA                                                                  4ANNEX 2
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
L/
ORISSA: STATE CORPORATION STAFFING PATTERN
(Rs' 000)
Annual           Year 0 2/         Year 1             Year 2              Year 3            Years 4-5           TOTAL
HEAD OFFICE                    No.      Salary        (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost        (No.)    Cost       (No.)    Cost       'No.)    Cost       COST
General Manager                 1         27           (1)       9       (1)       27        (1)      27         (1)      27         (1)       27          144
Financial Controller            1         15.2         (1)       5       (1)       15       (1)       15         (1)      15         (1)       15           80
Chief Engineer                  1         18           (1)       6       (1)       18       (1)       18         (1)      18         (1)      18           96
Commercial Manager              1        12             -        -        -         -       (1)       12         (1)      12         (1)      12           48
Chief Accountant                1        12             -        -       (1)       12       (1)       12         (1)      12         (1)      12           60
Asst. Engineers                 2          9.6          -        -       (1)       10       (2)       19         (2)      19         (2)       19          86
Asst. to the Gen. Mgr.          1         10.2         (1)       3       (1)       10       (1)       10         (1)      10         (1)      10            53
Office Superintendent           2          7.5          -        -       (1)        8       (1)        8        (2)       15         (2)      15           61
Jr. Clerks                      6          4.3         (2)       3       (2)        9       (4)       17        (4)       17         (6)      26           98
Accountants                     3          9.6          -        -       (1)       10       (2)       19        (3)       29         (3)      29          116
Jr. Accountants                 6          6.1          -        -       (2)      12        (4)      24         (4)       24         (6)      37          134
Steno/Typists                   6          4.3         (1)       1       (2)       9        (4)      17         (4)       17         (6)      26           96
Attendants/Watchmen            10          2.7         (2)       5       (4)      11        (6)       16        (8)       22         (10)     27          108
Driver                          1         3.6          (L)       4           (1)   4        (l)       4         (1L        4         (1)       4           24
Subtotal                42                       (10)    36        (19)    155        (30)    218         (34)    241         (42)    277          1204
FIELD MANAGEMENT
Plantation Managers             7        15.2          (1)      5        (3)      46        (5)      76         (7)     106         (7)      106          445
Asst. Managers                 13        10.2           -       -        (4)      41        (9)      92         (13)    133         (13)    133           532
Supervisors                    65         6.1           -       -       (10)      61        (30)    183         (50)   305          (65)   396          1341
Foremen                      130          3.0           -       -       (20)      60        (60)    180         (100)  300          (30)    390         1320
Subtotal               215                       (1)      5       (37)    208         (104)  531          (170)  844          (215) 1025          3638
FIELD OFFICES
Office Superintendents          7          7.5          -       -       (3)       22       (5)       38         (7)      52         (7)      52          216
Accountants                     7         9.6           -       -       (3)       29       (5)       48         (7)      67         (7)      67          278
Works Supervisors               7          4.8          -       -       (3)       14       (5)       24         (7)      34         (7)      34          140
Typists                         7         3.6           -       -       (3)       11       (5)       18         (7)      25         (7)      25          104
Attendants/Watchmen            28          2.7          -       -       (12)      32       (20)      54         (28)     76         (28)     76          314
Drivers                        14         3.6          _        -       (5)      18        (8)       29        (11)      40         (14)     50          187
Subtotal                 70                                       (29)    126        (48)    211         (67)   294           (70)   304          1239
UNIT STATIONS
Office Assistants             65          4.3           -       -       (10)     43        (30)   129          (50)    215          (65)    280          947
Attendants/Watchmen           130          2.7          _- -            (20)     54        (60)    162         (100)   270          (130)  351          1188
Subtotal              195                       -       -        (30)     97        (90)    291         (150)  485          (195)  631          2135
TOTAL                       522                       (11)   41        (115)  586         (272) 1251          (421) 1864           (522) 2237          8216
1/  Estimate of incremental staff required for management of 13,000 ha cashew development, based or 2,000 ha plantations made up of 200
ha units,
2/ Salaries for four months, based on estimated start-up pace of recruitment.



-69-                              ANNEX 2
INDIA                             Table 6
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
TRAINING EXPENSES
(Rupees  Vk)
80/81   81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85
Year                       1       2        3       4        5      Total
Kerala
Cultivation courses 1/
Departmental Staff                     2.6      5.1    10.2    10.2    10.2       38.3
Corporation Staff                     .0.9     1.8      _.8      1.. 5     a       & 8.1
Subtotal                             3.5     6.9    12.0    12.0    12.0       46.4
Vegetative propagation courses 2/
Departmental Staff                     3.5      7.0    13.5    13.5    13.5       51.0
Corporation Staff                     _0.6     1.2      2.4     2.4      9.4       9 n
Subtotal                             4.1     8.2    15.9    15.9    15.9       60.0
Total                              7.6    15.1    27.9    27.9    27.9    106.4
Karnataka
Cultivation courses 1/
Departmental Staff                     2.5     4.5      9.0     9.0      9.0      34.0
Corporation Staff                      0.9     1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8      8.1
Subtotal                            3.4      6.3    10.8    10.8    10.8       42.1
Vegetative propagation courses            34
Departmental Staff                     3.0     6.0    12.0    12.0    12.0       45.0
Corporation Staff                     0.6      1.2      2.4     2.&      2.4      9.0
Subtotal                            3.6      7.2    14.4    14.4    14.4       54.0
Total                             7.n    13.5    25.2    25.2    25.2        96.1
Andhra Pradesh
Cultivation courses 1/
Departmental Staff                    2.6      5.1    10.2    10.2    10.2       38.3
Corporation Staff                     1.2      2.4      3.6     6.0      6.0     19.2
Subtotal                            3.8      7.5    13.8    16.2    16.2       57.5
Vegetative propagation courses 2/
Departmental Staff                    3.5      7.0    13.5    13.5    13.5       51.0
Corporation Staff                     2.0      4.0     7.5      7.5     7.5      28.5
Subtotal                            5.5    11.0    21.0    21.0    21.0        79.5
Total                             9.3    18.5    34.8    37.2    37.2    137.0
Orissa
Cultivation courses 1/
Departmental Staff                    1.2      2.4     4.8      4.8     4.8      18.0
Corporation Staff                     1.8      4.2     7.8      9.0     9.0      31.8
Subtotal                            3.0     6.6    12.6    13.8    13.8       49.8
Vegetative propagation courses 2/
Departmental Staff                    1.5      3.0     6.0      6.0     6.0      22.5
Corporation Staff                     3.0     6.0    12.0    12.0    12.0        45.0
Subtotal                           4.5      9.0    18.0    18.0    18.0       67.5
Total                            7.5    15.6        0.6    -1.8    31.8    '17.3
,zarn4 Total                         31.h   62.7   11R.5   122.1   1?2.1    '56.8
1/ At 120 rupees per course attendant
2/ At 300 rupees per course attendant



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
1/
Research Component Cost Estimate
(Rs '000)
Indian FY             80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85    Total
2/
Cashew'Research Station
Civil Works                     -        900       600      300         -    1,800
Vehicles, Equipment             -        460       250        -         -       710
Inc. Staff Salaries           110        220      230       240       250    1,050
Inc. Operating Costs          120        200      220       220       225       985
Subtotal                230      1,780    1,300        760       475    4,545
3/
Regional Substations
Civil Works                 1,000          -         -        -         -    1,000
Vehicles Equipment            340          -         -        -         -       340
Inc. Staff Salaries           265        275      285       295       305    1,425
Inc. Operating Costs          135        135      155       155       175       755
Subtotal              1,740        410       440       450       480    3,520
Total                       1,970      2,190    1,740    1,210        955    8,065
1/ Indicative costs and phasing. See para 3.14.
2/ Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (Kasaragod, Kerala); Vittal
Research Centre/Shantigodu Seed Farm.
3/ Bapatla (Andhra Pradesh), Bhubaneswar (Orissa), Mannuthy (Kerala),
and new station in Karnataka.



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements -/
(US$ millions)
Cumulative Dis-
IDA Fiscal Year              Disbursements During             bursements at
and Quarter                      Quarter                    end of Quarter
1980/81
December  31                    0.2                             0.2
March      31                   0.1                             0.3
June      30                    0.3.                            0.6
1981/82
September 30                    0.4                             1.0
December  31                    0.6                             1.6
March      31                   0.8                             2.4
June      30                    0.9                             3.3
1982/83
September 30                    0.9                             4.2
December  31                    1.0                             5.2
March      31                   1.0                             6.2
June      30                    1.3                             7.5
1983/84
September 30                    1.5                            9.0
December  31                    1.5                           10.5.
March      31                   1.5                           12.0
June      30                    2.0                           14.0
1984/85
September 30                    2.0                           16.0
December  31                    2.0                           18.0
March      31                   2.0                           20.0
June      30 2/                 2.0                           22.0
1/ Assumes Credit Effectiveness September 30, 1980.
21 Assumes Credit closing on August 31, 1985.



- 72 -
INDIA
ANNEX 4
CASHEWNUT PROJECT                                                                        Table I
Smalholder Component: Projected Farmer Income From New Plantations
(Rs - I ha Models)
--Production Costs I/ ------                                                         _________________Financing------------- -----
Yield                    Net Benefit        Farmer                         Loan                        NET BENEFIT
Year  Labor 2/  Materials  Total  (kglha)  Revenue 3/  Before Financing  Equity 4/  Subsidy 5/  (Debt Service) 6/  Total  AFTER FINANCING 8/
i.  Karnataka
1    880           260       1,140       -           -            (1,140)            55           310               775            1,140              -
2    450           360         810       -           -              (.810)           40          310                460               810             -
3    495           490         985       -           -              (985)            50          310                625               985             -
4     320          570         890      50         205              (685)            45             -               640               685             -
5    390           595         985     150         630              (355)            50             -               305               355             -
6    425           595       1,020     400      1,720                 700             -             -              (410) 7/          (410)          290
7    470           595       1,065     600      2,640              1,575              -             -            (1,065)          (1,065)          510
8    505           595       1,100     700      3,220              2,120              -             -            (1,000)          (1,000)        1,120
9    535           595       1,130     800       3,840             2,710              -             -              (930)             (930)       1,780
10    570           595       1,165     900      4,410              3,245              -             -              (860)             (860)       2,385
11    570           595       1,165     900      4,590              3,425              -             -              (795)             (795)       2,630
12    570           595       1,165     900      4,590              3,425              -             -              (725)             (725)       2,700
13-40     570           595      1,165      900      4,590              3,425             -             -                  -                -         3,425
IRR = 29'h                                        IRR to Farmer's Equity         = 50+%,
II.  Andhra Pradesh
1    660 101       240         900       -           -              (900)           45           255                600              900              -
2    300           360         660       -           -              (660)            35          255                370               660             -
3    365           490         855       -           -              (855)           45           2 55               555              855              -
4    235           570         805      50         205              (600)            40             -               560               600             -
5    295           595         890     150         630              (260)            45             -               215               260             -
6    320           595         915     400       1,720                805             -             -              (340) 7/          (340)          465
7    355           595         950     600      2,640              1,690              -             -              (875)            (875)          815
8    380           595         975     700      3,220              2,245              -             -              (815)            (815)        1,430
9    400           595         995     800      3,840              2,845              -             -              (760)            (760)        2,085
10    425           595       1,020     900      4,410              3,390              -             -              (705)             (705)       2,685
11    425           595       1,020     900      4,590              3,570              -             -              (645)             (645)       2,925
12    425           595       1,020     900      4,590              3,570              -             -              (595)             (595)       2,975
13-40     425           595      1,020      900      4,590              3,570             -             -                  -                -         3,570
IRR = 33%                                         IRR to Farmer's Equity           50.
ii.  Kerala
1  1,100 11/       260       1,360       -           -            (1,360)            70          410                880 12/        1,360              -
2    860           360       1,220        -          -            (1,220)            60          410                750            1,220              -
3    920           490       1,410       -           -            (1,410)            70          410                930            1,410              -
4    400           570         970      50         205              (765)            50             -               715               765             -
5    490           595       1,085     150         630              (455)            55             -               400               455             -
6    53C           595       1,125     400       1,720               595              -             -              (540) 13/         (540)           55
7    590           595       1,185     600      2,640              1,455              -             -            (1,100)          (1,100)          355
8    630           595       1,225     700      3,220              1,995              -             -            (1,050)          (1,050)           945
9    670           595       1,265     800       3,840             2,575              -             -              (990)             (990)       1,585
10     710          595       1,305     900       4,410             3,105              -             -              (930)             (930)       2,175
11     710          595       1,305     900      4,590              3,285              -             -              (870)             (870)       2,415
12     710          595       1,305     900      4,590              3,285              -             -              (810)             (810)       2,475
13     710          595       1,305     900      4,590              3,285              -             -              (750)             (750)       2,535
14     710          595       1,305     900      4,590              3,285              -             -              (690)             (690)       2,595
15     710          595       1,305     900      4,590              3,285              -             -              (635)             (635)       2,650
16-40     710           595      1,305      900      4,590              3,285             -             -                  -                -   9/  3,285
IRR = 24%.                                        IRR to Farmer's Equity-   = 50+%
IV.  Orissa
1    440 14/       240         680       -           _              (680)            35          205                440 15/          680              -
2    220           380         600       -           -              (600)            30          205                365               600             -
3    265           510         775       -           -              (775)           40           205                530               775             -
4     155          570         725      50         235               (490)           35             -               455               490             -
5     195          595         790     150         720                (70)           25             -                45                70             -
6    210           595         805    400        1,960             1,155              -             -              (790)             (790)          365
7    235           595         830     600      3,000              2,170              -             -              (735)            (735)        1,435
8    250           595         845     700       3,640             2,795              -             -              (685)            (685)        2,110
9    270           595         865     800      4.240              3,375              -             -              (630)             (630)       2,745
10    285           595         880     900      4,860              3,980              -             -              (565)             (565)       3,415
11-40     285           595         880     900      5,040              4,160             -             -                  -                 -        4,160
IRR = 40%                                         IRR to Farmer's Equity 9/.'    50+/
1/  For details, see Annex 4, Table 2.
2/  At wage rate of Rs 8 per workday.
3/  For details, see Table 6.6 and Annex 5, Table 6.  Year 1 = 1980.
4/  5% of establishment (production) costs in deficit years 1-5.
5/  Government subsidy calculated on financing requirement (net benefit before financing less farmer equity contribution).
6/  12-year loan at 10.5% interest with six year grace period on principal.  Interest capitalized during five year disbursement period.
7/ Interest payment only.
8/  Net cash flow to farm  family, in constant (October 1979) Rupees.
9/  Calculated on net benefits after financing, less farmer's equity contribution.
10/  At wage rate of Rs 6 per workday.
11/  At wage rate of Rs 10 per workday.
12/  15-year loan at 10.5% interest with six year grace period on principal.  Interest capitalized during five year disbursement period.
13/  Interest payment only.
14/  At wage rate of Rs 4 per workday.
15/  10-year loan at 10.5% interest with five year grace period on principal.  Interest cppitalized during five year disbursement period.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
I/
Production Costs: New Plantationis
(I la Model)
YEAR I                                                             YEAR 2                                                  YEAR 3
SMALLHOLDERS                     SCs                                            SMALLHOLDERS/SCs                                        SMALLHOL DERS/SCs
West Coast   East Coast   West Coast   East Coast                                 West Coast   East Coast                                 West Coast   East Coast
LABOR                          ------------------- Workdays  2/-------____             LABOR                        --   Workdays ------   LABOR                            --- Workdays -------
Land Clearing, Development         70           70             75           75         Crescent Bunding 6/             25            20       Crescent Bunding               25             25
Pit Digging                        15           10             15           10         Ringweeding, Mtllching          20            20       Ringweeding                     15            15
Planting Seedlings                  6            6              6            6         Cap Filling                      I             1       Mulching, weeding              10             10
Fertilizer Application              4            4              4            4         Fertilizer Application           5             4       Sidegrafting                    -              -  7/
Weeding Mulching Watering          10           15             10           15         Sidegrafting                     -             - 7/   Fertilizer Application            5             4
Plant Protection                    2            2              2            2         Plant Protection                 2             2       Plant Protection                4              4
Miscellaneous                       3            3              3            3         Miscellaneous                    3             3       Miscellaneous                    3             3
Total Workdays               110          110            115          115              Total Workdays             56            50            Total Workdays            62             61
Wage Rate (Rs/wd)              8            6              8            6              Wage Rate (Rs/wd)           8             6            Wage Rate (Rs/wd)          8              6
Labor Cost                   880          660            920         690               Labor Cost                448           300            Labor Cost               496           366
MATERIALS                         ------------------- Rs ------------------            MATERIALS                      ------ Rs  -----        MATERIALS                    ------- Rs -------
Plant Material                     50           30             50           30         Plant Material                  10            10       Fertilizer                    350            350
Fertilizer 3/                     150          150            150          150         Fertilizer                     250           250       Plant Protection              120            120
Plant Protection 4/                40           40             40           40         Plant Protection                80            8D       Miscellaneous                  20             20
Fencing 5/                          -            -            250          250        Miscellaneous                    20            20
Miscellaneous                      20           20             20           20                                                                                                                        _
Materials Cost               260          240            510          490              Material Cost             360           360            Material Cost            490            490
TOTAL COST OF PRODUCTION        1,140          900          1,430        1,180         TOTAL COST OF PRODUCTION       810           660       TOTAL COST OF PRODUCTION    985              855
Labor as % of Total Cost           77%          73%            64%          58%        Labor as % of Total Cost        55%           457      Labor as / of Total Cost        50%           42%
YEAR 4                                                  YEAR 5                                                            YFAR 6
SMALLHOLDERS/SCs                          SMALLHOLDERS                       SCs                            SMALLHOLDERS                     SCs
West Coast   East Coast                   West Coast   East Coast    West Coast   East Coast              West Coast  East Coast    West Coast   East Coast
LABOR                          ------- Workdays ------                   -------------------- Workdays --------------------                -----------------  Workdays --------------------
Bund Maintenance                    4            4                           5              5              5            5                      5           5
Mulching, Weeding                  20           20                          15             15             15           15                     12          12                  12            12
Fertilizer Application              5            4                           5              5              5            5                      5           5                   5             S
Plant Protection                    5            5                           9              9              5            5                     10          10                   6             6
Harvesting  8/                      3            3                          10             10             10           10                     16          16                  16            16
Miscellaneous                       3            3                           5              5              5            5                      55
Total Workdays                40           39                          49             49             45           45                     53          53
Wage Rate (Rs/wd)              8            6                           8              6              8            6                      8           6                   8             6
Labor Cost                   320          234                         392            294            360          270                    424         318                392            294
MATERIALS                      --------- Rs----------                      -------------------- Rs -------------------                       -------------------- Rs ---------------------
Fertilizer                        400          400                         400            400            400          400                    400         400                 400           400
Plant Protection                  150          150                         175            175            175          175                    175         175                 175           175
Miscellaneous                      20           20                          20             20             20           20                     20          20                  20            20
Materials Cost               570          570                         595            595            595          595                    595         595                595            595
TOTAL COST OF PRODUCTION          890          805                         985            890            955          865                  1,020         915                 985           890
Labor as % of Total Cost           36%          29%                         40%/e          33%            38 %         31%                    42%         35%                 40%           33%



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Production Costs: New Plantations
(I ha Model)
YFAR 7                                                                   YEAR 8
SMALLHOLDERS                         SCs                               SMALLHOLDERS                         SCs
West Coast   East Coast         West Coast   East Coast                 West Coast   East Coast    West Coast   East Coast
LABOR                                              --- Workdays ---------------------                  -------------------- Workdays --------------------
Bund Maintenance                    5               5                5            5                          5              5              5               5
Mulching, Weeding                 10               10               10-          10                         10             10             10             10
Fertilizer Application              5               5                5            5                          5              5              5               5
Plant Protection                  10               10                6            6                         10             10              6              6
Harvesting                        24               24               24           24                         28             28             28             28
Miscellaneous                       5               5                5            5                          5              5              5               5
Total Workdays               59              59               55           55                         63             63             59              59
Wage Rate (Rs/wd)             8               6                8            6                          8              6              8               6
Labor Cost                 472              354              440          330                        504            378            472            354
MATERIALS                       ---------------------  Rs ------------------                              -------------------- Rs ------------------
Fertilizer                       400             400               400          400                       400            400             400            400
Plant Protection                 175             175               175          175                       175             175            175            175
Miscellaneous                     20               20               20           20                         20             20             20             20
Materials Cost             595              595              595          595                        595            595            595            595
TOTAL COSI OF PRODUCTION    1,065                950              1,035         925                     1,100             975          1,065            950
Labor as % of Total Cost          44%              37%               43%         36%                       46%             39%            44%            37%
YEAR 9                                                                   YEAR 10
SMALLHOLDERS                         Scs                                SMALLIIOLDERS                       SCs
West Coast   East Coast         West Coast   East Coast                West Coast   East Coast    West Coast   East Coast
LABOR                          -------------------- Workdays ------------------                        -------------------- Workdays ------------------
Bund Maintenance                   5                5                5            5                          5              5              5              5
Mulching, Weeding                 10               10               10           10                         10             10             10             10
Fertilizer Application             5                5                5            5                          5              5
Plant Protection                  10               10                6            6                        10              10              6              6
Harvesting                        32               32               32           32                         36             36             36             36
Miscellaneotus                      5               5                5            5                          5              5              5               5
Total Workdays              67               67               63           63                         71             71             67             67
Wage Rate (Rs/wd)             8               6                8            6                          8              6              8               6
Labor Cost                 536             402               504          378                        568            426            536            402
MATERIALS                        ---------------------- Rs ------------------                             ---------------------NRs ------------____
Fertilizer                       400             400               400         400                        400            400             400            400
Plant Protection                 175             175               175          175                       175            175             175            175
Miscellaneous                     20               20               20           20                         20             20             20             20
Materials Cost              595             595              595          595                        595            595            595            595
TOTAL COST OF PRODUCTION    1,130                995             1,100          975                     1,165          1,020           1,130            995
Labor as % of Total Cost          47%              40%              46%          39%                       49%             42%            47%            40%
1/Estimated costs for cultivation by smallholders and by State Corporations (SCs) on non-compacted lateritic soils under
conditions prevailing in the west coast (Karnataka, Kerala) and east coast (Andhra Pradesh, Orissa).
2/In some locations, female labor typically accounts for about 30% of total labor expended on cashew cultivation.
3/Recommended dosage for 1 ha, 150 trees (year 4 on): 110 kg urea 46%; 150 kg superphosphate 16%; 50 kg MOP 56%.
4/Recommended dosage for 1 ha, 150 trees (year 4 on) is three applications of 750 ml Endosulfan. Hand-operated sprayers
(Rs 600) expected to be purchased by 25% of small holders.
5/Apportioned cost for 4 - strand barbed wire fencing and posts.
6/Estitated to be necessary in half the area to be developed, except in Kerala where all areas would require cresent                                                     e >
bunding in yrs. 2-3 for an additional Rs 600.
7/ln Orissa, sidegrafting will be practiced, adding about 5 workdays and Rs 20 for plant material.
8/Calculated in initial bearing years at 15 kg/wd rising to 25 kg/wd in year 10.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Smallholder Component: Projected Farmer Income from Improvement of Existing Plantations
(Rs - I ha Models)
Less: Net 4/       Incremental Net                         Finaricing-  -L                         Incremental
- Production Costs 1/-              Yield                      Net      Benefit Without    Benefit Before   Farmer 5/                F            Loan 7/                  Net Benefit
Year    Labor 2/   Materials   Total   (kg/ha)   Revenue 3/   Benefit                Project            Financing          Equity      Subsidy 6/   (Debt Service)   Total   After Financing 8/
I.  Karnataka
1      800            435       1,235      20C)         900          (335)           600                  (935)           45           110               780             935               _
2      535            505       1,040       300       1,350            310           600                  (290)            15          105               170              290              _
3      545            555       1,100      350        1,610            510           620                  (110)            10          100                  -             110              -
4      450            595       1,045      450        2,115         1,070            640                   430              -            -              (310)           (310)            120
5      490            595       1,085      525        2,520         1,435            660                   775              -             -             (295)            (295)          480
6      480            595       1,075       550       2,695          1,620           680                   940              -             -             (275)            (275)          665
7      495            595       1,090      650        3,250         2,160            700                 1,460              -            -              (255)           (255)         1,205
8      510            595       1,105       700       3,640         2,535             740                1,795              -            -              (235)           (235)         1,560
9      530            595       1,125       750       3,975         2,850            760                2,090               -            -              (220)           (220)         1,870
10      545            595       1,140       800      4,320          3,180            780                 2,400              -            -              (200)           (220)         2,200
11-30       545           595        1,140      800       4,480          3,340            820                2,520              -             -                 _               _          2,520
II.  Andhra Pradesh                                                                                        IRR=  44%                                      IRR to Farmer's Equity 9/          50 +%
1      545 10/        435         980      200          900            (80)          670                  (750)           40           115               595 11/          750
2      390            510         900      300        1,350            450           670                  (220)            10          115                 95             220              -
3      365            555         920      350        1,610            690           690                     0              -            -                  -               -              -
4       325           595          920     450        2,115          1,195            710                  485              -             -              (280)           (280)           205
5      355            595         950      525        2,520         1,570            730                   840              -             -              (260)           (260)           580
6      360            595         955      550        2,695         1,740            750                   99(              -            -              (240)            (240)           750
7      370            595         965      650        3,250         2,285            770                 1,515              -            -              (225)         (1,290)         1,290
8      385            595         980      700        3,640         2,660            810                 1,850              -            -              (195)         (1,655)         1,655
9       395           595          990     750        3,975         2,985            830                 2,155              -            -                  -                         2,155
10      410            595       1,005      800        4,320         3,315            850                 2,465              -            -                  -               _         2,465
11-30       410           595        1,005     800        4,480          3,475            890                2,585              -             -                 -                          2,585
IRR=  50 +%                                    IRR to Farmer's Equity 9/          50 +%
1/  For details, see Annex 4, Table 4.
2/ At wage rate of Rs 8 per workday.
3/  For details, see Table 6.6 and Annex 5, Table 6. Year 1   1980.
4/ Estimated without project yield of 200 kg/ha and production costs of Rs 300/ha (Karnataka) and Rs 230/ha (Andhra Pradesh).
5/ 5% of establishment costs (incremental net benefit before financing) in deficit years.
6/ Government subsidy calculated on finanicing requirement (incremental net benefit less farmer equity contribution).
7/  10-year loan at 10.5% interesL with three year grace period on principal. Interest capitalized in years 1-3.
8/  Incremental net cash flow to farm family, in constant (October 1979) Rupees.
9/  Calculated on incremental net benefits after financing, less farmer's equity contribution.                                                                                                             HIz
10/  At wage rate of Rs 6 per workday.
11/  Eight-year loan at 10.5% interest, with three year grace period on principal. Interest capitalized in years 1-3.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Production Costs: Improvement of Existing Plantations
(I ha Model)
YFAR 1                                                                                YEAR 2
SMALLHOLDERS                     SCs                                                 SMALLHOLDERS                       SCs
Karnataka        A.P.      Karnataka      Orissa                                     Karitataka       A.P.       Karnataka         Orissa
LABOR                           ------------------- Workdays  2/- ------------    LABOR                                ------------------ Workdays -------------------
Land Clearing                       30            30            30           30        Bund Development                   20            15            20             15
Btilnd Development 3/               20            15            20           15        Gap Filling                         1             1             1
Pit Digging                          5             3             5            3        Side Grafting                       -             5             _              5
Planting                             2             2             2            2        Weeding, Mulching                  10            10            10             10
Fertilizer Application               7             5             7            5        Fertilizer  Application             7             5             7              5
Plant Protection                     9             9             5            5        Plant Protection                    9             9             5              5
Weeding, Mulchinlg                  10            10            10           10        Harvesting                         15            15            l5             15
Harvesting  4/                      12            12            12           12        Miscellaneous                       5             5             5              -
Miscellaneous                        5             5             5            5
Total Workdays                100           91            96           87              Total Workdays               67            65            63              61
Wage Rate (Rs/wd)               8             6             8           4              Wage Rate (Rs/wd)             8              6             8              4
Labor Cost                   800           546           768          348              Labor Cost                  536           390            504            244
MATERIALS                         --------------------- Rs ------         ----         MATERIALS                         __-------------------- Rs ------------------
Fencing                              -             -           250          250        Plant Material                      5            10             5             10
Plant Material                      15            15            15           15        Fertilizer                        330           330           330            330
Fertilizer  5/                     300           300           300         300         Plant Protection                 150            150           150            150
Plant Protection  6/               100           100           100          100        Miscellaneous                      20            20            20             20
Miscellaneous                       20            20            20           20
Materials Cost               435           435           685          685              Materials Cost              505           510           505             510
7/
TOTAL COST OF PRODUCTION         1,235           980         1,455       1,035         TOTAL COST OF PRODUCTION       1,L04            900         1.010            755
Labor as % of Total Cost            657.          56%           53%          30l       Labor as % of Total Cost           52%           43%           50%
YEAR 3                                                                                YFAR 4
SMALLHOLDERS                     SCs                                                 SMALLHOLDERS                       SCs
Karnataka       A.P.       Karnataka    Orissa                                       Karnataka        A.P.       Karnataka         Orissa
IABOR                           ------------------- Workdays -------------------    LABOR                            --------    -------- Workdays -------------______
BOnd Development                    20            15            20           15        Bund Maintenance                    5             5             5              5
Weeding, Mulching                   10            10            10           10        Weeding Mulching                   10            10            10             10
Fertilizer Application               7             5             7            5        Fertilizer Application              7             5             7              5
Plant Protection                     9             9             5            5        Plant Protection                    9             9             5              5
Harvesting                          17            17            17           17        Harvesting                         20            20            20             20
Miscellaneouls                       5             5             5            5        Miscellaneous                       5             5             5              5
Total Workdays                 68           61            64           57              Total Workdays               56            54            52              50
Wage Rate (Rs/wd)               8             6            8            4              Wage Rate (Rs/wd)             8              6             8              4
Labor Cost                   544           366           512          228              Labor Cost                  448           324           416             200
MATERIALS                ~~~~~~~~~-------------------- Rs -------------------  MATERIALS                        -------------------- Rs --------------------
MATERIALS                                               EsMTEILS0
Fertilizer                         360           360          360          360         Fertilizer                       400           400            400            400
Plant Protection                   175           175           175         175         Plant Protection                 175            175           175            175 5      ' >
Miscellaneous                       20            20            20           20        Miscellaneous                      20            20            20             20      a D
Materials Cost                555           555          555          555              Materials Cost              595           595            595            595        *'
TOTAL COST OF PRODUCTION         1,100           920        1,065           785        TOTAL COST OF PRODUCTION       1,045            920         7,010            195
Labor as % of Total Cost            49%           40%           48%          29%.      Labor as % of Total Cost           43%          35%            41%            25



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Production Costs: Improvement of Existing Plantations -
(I ha Model)
YFAR 5                                                      YEAR 6                                                        YEAR 7
SMALLHOLDERS                        SCs                     qMALLHOLDERS                       SCs                       SMALLHOLDERS                        SCs
Karnataka         A.P.       Karnataka          Orissa       Karnataka        A.P.         Karnataka        Orissa       Karnataka          A,p.         Karnataka      Orissa
LABOR                                                  Workdays      ----                  ------------------- Workdays------                          ----------        --- Workdays ---------------------
Bund Maintenarnce                    5              5               5              5              5             5              5               5              5                5            5                5
Weeding, Mulching                   10             10              10             10              8             8              8               8              8                8            8                8
Fertilizer Application               7              5               7              5              5             5              5               5              5               5             5                5
Plant Protection                     9              9               5              5             10            10              6               6             10              10             6                6
Harvesting                          25             25              25             25             27            27             27              27             29              29            29               29
Miscellaneous                        5              5               5              5              5              5              5               5              5               5             5               5
Total Workdays                61             59              57             55             60             60             56              56             62              62            58              58
Wage Rate (Rs/wd)               8             6               8              4              8              6              8               4              8               6             8               4
Labor Cost                   488            354             456            220            480            360           448              224           496              372          464              232
MATERIALS                          -------------------- Rs --------------------                  ------------------ Rs --------------------                 -------------------- Rs--------------------
Fertilizer                         400           400             400            400            400            400            400             400            400             400           400             400
Plant Protection                   175            175             175            175           175            175            175             175            175             175           175             175
Miscellaneous                       20             20              20             20             20             20            20              20              20              20           20               20
Materials Cost               595            595             595            595            595            595            595             595            595             595           595             595
TOTAL COST OF PRODUCTION         1.085            950          1.050            815          1,075            955          1,045             820          1,090              965        1,060             825
Labor as % of Total Cost            45%            37%            2427'                          45%           38%            43%             277%            46%             39%          44%              2 8%
YEAR 8                                                      YEAR 9                                                         YEAR 10 on
SMALLHOLDERS                       SCs                      SMALLHOLDERS                        SCs                      SMALLHOLDERS                        SCs
Karnataka       A.P.         Karnataka       Orissa        Karnataka         A.P.          Karnataka       Orissa       Karnataka         -A--r-----rkda ----O--s-sa 0ss
LABOR- ----------Workdays---------                                                          -    --------Workdays----------                              ---------Workday-  
Bund Maintenance                     5              5               5              5              5              5              5               5
Weeding, Mulching                    8              8               8              8              8              8             8                8              8               8             8               8
Fertilizer Application               5              5               5              5              5              5             5                5              5               5
Plant Protection                    10             10               6              6             10            10              6                6            10               10             6               6
Harvesting                          31             31              31             31             33            33             33              33              35              35            35              35
Miscellaneous                        5              5               5              5              5              5              5               5              5               5             5               5
Total Workdays                64             64              60             60             66             66             62              62             68              68            64              64
Wage Rate (Rs/wd)               8             6               8               4             8              6              8               4              8               6             8                4
Labor Cost                   512            384             480            240            528            396           496              248            544             408           512             256
MATERIALS                           ------------------- Rs -------                                                    Rs -------                                                     Rs ----------
Fertilizer                         400            400            400            400            400            400            400             400            400             400           400              400
Plant Protection                   175            175             175           175            175            175            175             17S            175             175           175              175
Miscellaneous                       20             20              20             20             20            20             20              20              20              20            20              20
Materials Cost                595           595             595            595            595            595            595             595            595             595           595             595
TOTAL COST OF PRODUCTION         1,105            980          1,075             835         1.125            990          1.090             845          1,140           1,005                            8510S0
Labor as % of Total Cost            46%            39              45%            29 9 %         47%           40%            46%              29%            48%             41%           46%             30%
1/ Estimated gross costs for smallholders and state corporations to improve existing bearing placations.
2/ In some locations, female labor typically accounts for about 30% of total labor expended on cashew cultivation.
3/ Estimated to be necessary in half the area to be developed.
4/ Calculated in initial bearing years at 15 kg/wd rising to 25 kg/w& in year 10.
5/ Recommended dosage for I ha, 150 trees (year 4 on): 110 kg urea 46%: 150 kg  superphosphate 16%; 50 kg MOP 56%.
6/ Recommended dosage for I ha, 150 trees (year 4 on) is three applications of 750 ml Endosulfan.
7/ Gross costs.  Without project costs (essentially for harvest expenses for 200kg/ha) estimated at Rs 300 in, Karnataka, Rs 230 in Andhra Pradcsh and Rs 160 ij,  Oritsa.                                 oc-.



INDIA
CASlEWNUT PROJECT
Plantation Corporation of Kerala
Cash Flow Pr jections and Finanicial Rate of Return
(Rupees million)
79/80  80/81
0      1        2           3  4-                       6           -   7         9        10     11  1?            13 15              75      16-    17
I.  Cash Inflow
(1) Gross revenues                     _        _         _         _         _     0.2       0.6     1.7    3.4       5.5      7.3    8.9    9.8    10.3          10.4    10.4   10.4   10.4
Subsidy  /                        -                0.1       0.3       0.4      0.2      0.1         -      -        -        -       -       -        -           -        -      -       _
Long term  debt j                 -      1.0       1.6       2.4       2.8      2.8      1.8      1.2       -        -        -       -       -        -           -        -      -       -
Equity                          0.1      0.4       0.8       1.2        1.4      1.4     0.9      0.6            -            -       -       -        -          _         _      _ 
Total cash inflow                    0.1      1.4       2.5       3.9       4.6      4.6      3.4      3.5    3.4       5.5      7.3    8.9    9.8    10.3          10.4    10.4   10.4   10.4
Cash Outflow
,2) Fixed assets /                     -      0.9       1.2       1.0       1.1      1.0        -        -       -        -        -    0.3    0.3       0.2        0.3       0.3       -       -
(3) Operating expenses 4               -        -         -         -      0.1      0.7       1.7     2.8      3.3      3.5      3.6    3.7    3.7       3.8         3.8      3.8    3.8    3.8
(4) Deferred costs 5/                         0,4       1.3       2.5       3.4      2.8      1.8      0.6       -        -        -      -       -        -           -        -       -       -
Income tax                        -                  -         -         -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -       -        -        0.1      3.1    3.2    3.3
Debt service-Interest /           -        -          -         -         -        -        -                -     2.3       2.3    2.1    1.9       1.7         1.5      1.3    1.1    0.9
Debt service-Principal 7/         -                   -         -         -        -        -        -      -               2.0    2.0    2.0        2.0         2.0      2.0    2.0    2.0
Dividends /                       -        -          _- _                                                                                    -        -        0.7      0.7    0.7    0.7
Total cash Outflow                     -      1.3       2.5       3.5       4.6      4.5      3.5      3.4    3.3       5.7      7.9    8.1    7.9        7.7        8.4    11.2   10.8   10.7
Net cash flow/(outflow)              0.1      0.1         -       0.4         -      0.1    (0.1)    0.1    0.1    (0.2)   (0.6)   0.8           1.9      2.6        2.0    (0.8)  (0.4)  (0.3)
Cumulative net cash flow             0.1      0.2       0.2       0.6       0.6      0.7      0.6      0.7    0.8       0.6        -    0.8    2.7        5.3        7.3      6.5    6.1    5.8
II.   Financial Rate of Return
Net Benefits
(1)-(2)-(3)-(4)                        _    (1.3)      (2.5)    (3.5)      (4.6)   (4.3)   (2.9)   (1.7)   0.1          2.0      3.7    4.9    5.8       6.3         6.3      6.3    6.6    6.6
Physical contirngencies                .    (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)        (0.1)   (0.1)
Net Bcnofits including                                                                                                                                                                                       e H
physical contingencies                _     (1.4)    (2.6)    (3.6)       (4.7)  (4.4)    (2.9)   (1.7)   0.1          2.0      3.7    4.9    5.8       6.3         6.3      6.3    6.6      6.6              -'
tn v



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Plantation Corporation of Kerala
Cash Flow Projections and Financial Rate of Return
(Rupees Million)
18 19            20       21       22       23   24            3   25          ~32       32 5 333                    35 36_394
I. Cash Inflow
(1) Gross revenues                     10.4   10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4                    10.4
Subsidy !/                            -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -         -        -        -        _        _        _         _
Long term  debt                       -       .        -        -        -        -        -        -        -            -        -        -        -             -         -
Equity
Total cash inflow                      10.4   10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4                    10.4
Cash Outflow
(2) Fixed assets 3/                       -       -        _      0.6      1.0      1.1      1.0     0.8         -     0.2      0.2       0.4     0.3       0.3        -      (1.6) 9/
(3) Operating expenses  ./              3.8    3.8       3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8       3.8
(4) Deferred costs _/                     -       .        -        -                 .                 -                 -                 -        -                 -         -
Income tax                          3.5    3.6       3.8      3.9      3.9      3.9      3.9      3.9      3.9     3.9       3.9     3.9      3.9       3.9      3.9       3.9
Debt service-Interest               0.6    0.4       0.2        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -
Debt service-Principal 7/           2.0    2.0       2.0        -        -        -        - 0                   -        -        -        -        -             -                                         0
Dividends /                         0.7    0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7       0.7
Total cash Outflow                      10.6   10.5    10.5       9.3      9.6      9.4      9.5      9.4      8.4      8.7      8.7      8.6      8.7      8.7      8.4       6.8
Net cash flow/(outflow)                 (0.2)  (0.1)   (0.1)    1.1        0.8      1.0      0.9      1.0      2.0      1.7      1.7      1.8      1.7      1.7      2.0        3.6
Cumulative net cash flow                 5.6    5.5      5.4      6.5      7.3      8.3      9.2    10.2    20.2    21.9    23.6    25.4    27.1    28.8    36.8              40.4
II. Financial Rate of Return
Net Benefits
(i)T-(72)-(73)- (4)                     6.6    6.6       6.6      5.7      5.4      5.6      5.5      5.6      6.6      6.3      6.3      6.4      6.3      6.3      6.6       8.2
Physical contingencies                     _      -        _    (0.1)   (0.1)   (0.1)   (0.1)   (0.1)                 -        -        -        -            -         -         -
Net Benefits including
physical contingencies                  6.6    6.6      6.6      5.6      5.3      5.5      5.4      5.5      6.6      6.3      6.3      6.4      6.3      6.3      6.6       8.2
Rate of return before physical contingencies 15%
1/  At 500 rupees per ha paid over 2 years.
2/  Debt equity ratio 2 to 1.
7/  For details see Annex 2, Table 4.1.                                                                                                                                                                                   v
4/ For details see Table 6.
5/ For details see Table 6.
6/ At 10.51 p.a. capitalized for 8 years.
7/ 20 year loan with 9 year grace period.
T/ 107. of equity.
9/ Fixed assets and tree salvage value.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Plantation Corporation of Kerala
Incmae Statersent Projection
(Ropeen Milliono)
1         2         3         4         5         6         7          8         9         10        It        12        13         14         15        16         17        18        19        20    71 to 40
Crone Reveooeo 1/                          -          -         -         -        0.2       0.6       1.7       3.4       5.5        7.3       8.9       9.8      10.3      10.4       10.4       10.4      10.4      10.4       10.4      10.4       10.4
Operating eopen.e.
Prod-ction monte U                      -         -         -        0.1       0.5        1.3       2.0       2.4       2.6       2.7       2.8       2.8        2.9       2.9        2.9       2.9        2.9       2.9       2.9        2.9        2.9
Staff nalarien 2/                       -         -         -         -        0.1       0.2       0.4        0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5         0.5
Overhead co..n 3/                       -         _         _         -        0.1       Q.2        0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4        0.4        0.4       0.4        0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4         0.4
Total Operatiog  opoen...                          _        _   _                  0.7       1.7       2.8       3.3        3.5       3.6       3.7       3.7       3.8       3.8         3.8       3.8       3.8        3.8       3.8       3.8         3.8
Operating Profit/(loee)                    -         _         _        (0.1)    (0.5)    (1.1)    (1.1)         0,1       2.0        3.7       5.2       6.1       6.5       6.6        6.6        6.6       6.6       6.6        6.6       6.6        6.6
Deprociatioo 4/                          (0.1)      (0.2)    (0.3)    (0.4)       (0.6)    (0.6)      (0.6)    (0.6)    (0.6)    (0.6)    (0.6)    (0.6)    (0.6)    (0.6)               (0.6)    (0.6)    (0.6)    (0.6)         (0.6)    (0.6)       (0.6)
In.ete-t 5/                              (0.1)     (0.2)    (0.5)    (0.8)        (1.3)    (1.6)    (1.9)    (2.1)    (2.3)    (2.3)    (2.1)    (1.9)    (1.7)    (1.5)                (1.3)      (1.1)    (0.9)      (0.6)    (0.4)    (0.2)           -
Profit/(lo..) before ta.en               (0.2)      (0.4)    (0.8)    (1.3)       (2.4)    (3.3)    (3.6)    (2.6)    (0.9)           0.8       2.6       3.6       4.2       4.5        4.7        4.9       5.1        5.4       5.6       5.8        6.0
Iomeoo ta.e.  (65%)                        -         _         -          _         _         _                                                                              (0.1)      (3.1)    (3.2)    (3.3)        (3.5)    (3.6)    (3.8)         (3.9)
Nnt Pmoflt/(loon)  after t..e.           (0.2)      (0.4)    (0.8)    (1.3)       (2.4)    (3.3)    (3.6)    (2.6)    (0.9)           0.8       2.6       3.6       4.2       4.4         1.,6      1.7       1.6        1.9       2.0       2.0         2.1
1/  For detaile see Table 7.
2/  For detail. tee T.ble 7 and An.ex 2, Table 5.1.
3/  For dotail. ee Table 7 *od Annex 23  Table 4.1.
4/  Civil work 57; labor ho..ing, vehicle & equipment 107; defe-red mo.te 2.57.
5/  10.57. p.a. for 20 yearn, capitalized for 8 yearn.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Plantation Corporation of Kerala
Gross Revenues, Production Costs, Deferred Costs
(Rupees O000s)
Year:   80/81   81/82
1-       2          3          4          5         6           7          8          9         10         11          12        13       14 tb 40
Annual planting (ha)              100      450         700        700        325       -          -           -          -          -         -            -         -           -
Gross revenues                                                     21        158       613      1,672      3,410       5,490      7,301    8,870         9,755   10,277       10,442
Production costs 2/
Expensed                        -        -          -           97         541    1,258       2,013      2,441      2,558       2,661    2,755        2,823    2,863         2,876  1
Deferred 3/                     166      869      1,852      2,651      2,181    1,382          458                                         -            -         -          - 
Total                       166      869      1,852      2,748      2,722    2,640       2,471       2,441      2,558      2,661    2,755         2,823    2,863         2,876
Summary of deferred costs
Production costs                166      869      1,852      2,651       2,181    1,382         458
Staff salaries 4/               139      231        362         429        342       203         64
Overhead expenses 5/             86      199        294         349        326       214         68
Total                       391   1,299       2,508      3,429      22849    1,799          590
1/                     Year:   83/84   84/85        85/86      86/87      87/88    88/89        89/90      90/91 & on
Sales price (Rs/kg)         4.1       4.2        4.3        4.4        4.6       4.8        4.9            5.1
Yields (kg/ha)   Year:        4        5          6          7           8         9          10 & after
from year 1 of planting:   50         150        400        600        700       800              900
2/  For details see Table 2.
3/  Related to area yielding no nuts.
4/  For details, see Annex 2, Table 5.1.                                                                                                                                            '3P
5/  For details, see Annex 2, Table 4.1.
H ei



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation
cash Flow Projections and Financial R5te of Return
(Rupees Millions)
79/80    80/81
Year                          0        1         2        3         4           5          6         7         8          9         10       II          12        13         14         15        16         17
I.  Cash Inflow
(1)  Gross revenues                  -                 -        -         0.1       0.7        2.5       6.8       13.6      21.3       28.3      34.3       37.6      39.6       40.3       40.3      40.3       40.3
Subsidy  I/                    -      0.1      0.5       1.0        1.2        0.9       0.3          -         -          -          -         -          -         -          -         ---
Long term debt   2/            -      2.6      5.2       7.4        9.4        9.0       5.4        2.4-                   ----                                                 ----
Equity                       0.2      1.1      2.6      3.7         4.7        4.5       2. 7       1.2          -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -
Total cash inflow                  0.2      3.8      8.3    12.1         15.4      15.1       10.9      10.4       13.6      21.3       28.3       34.3      3-7. 6     39.6      40.3       40.3       40.3      40.3
Cash Outflow
(2)  Fixed assets  3/                -      2.4      3.8      4.0         3.9       3.5          -          -         -          -         -       0.9        1.4        1.4       1.4        1.0          -         -
(3)  Operating expenses  4/          -        -        -        -         0.5       2.5        5.7       8.9       10.6      10.9       11.1      13.3      i-1.4      L1-.5      11.6       11.6      11.6       11.6
(4)  Deferred costs  5/     0.1             1.3      4.4      8.1        10.8       9.1        5.0       1.6          -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -         -
Income tax                                          -            -               -               -               -.        -          -         -          -      11.6      12.3       12.7       13.0      13.3
Debt service-Interest 6/ -                          -        -         -              -               -                  7.2       6.6        6.0       5.4        4.8       4.2       *3.6        3.0       2.4 
Debt service-Principal -7/-             -         -         -         -               -          -         -             5.7       5.7        5.7       5.7        5.7       5.7        5.3        5.7       5.7       '
Dividends 8/                   -        -         -        -           -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -       2.1        2.1       2.1        2.1       2.1
Total cash outflow                0.1       3.7      8.2    12.1         15.2       15.1      10.7       10.5      10.6       23.8      23.4       23.9      23.9       3 7.1     37.3       36.7       35.4      35.1
Net cash flow/(outflow)           0.1       0.1      0.1         -        0.2          -       0.2       (0.1)      3.0     (2.5)        4.9       10.4      13.7        2.5       3.0        3.6        4.9       5.2
Cumulative net cash flow          0.1       0.2      0.3      0.3         0.5        0.5       0.7        0.6       3.6      1.1         6.0       16.4      30.1       32.6      35.6       39.2       44.1      49.3
II.  Financial Rate of Return
Net Benefits
(I)-(2)-(3)-(4)                  (0.1)   (3.7)   (8.2)  (12.1)          (15.1)   (14.4)       (8.2)     (3.7)       3.0     10.4        17.2      22.1       24.8       26.7      27.3       27.7      28.7       28.7
Phbysical contingencies-                   (0.2)   (0.4)   (0.4)         (0.4)      (0.)      (0.1)      (0.1)     (0.1)   (0.1)        (0.1)      (0.1)     (0.2)      (0.2)     (0.2)      (0.2)      (0.1)     (0.1)
Net Benefits including
physical contingencies         (0.1)    (3.9)    (8.6)  (12.5)        (15.5)    (14.8)      (8.3)     (3.8)       2.9    10.3         17.1      22.0       24.6      26.5       27.1       27.5      28,6       28.6
Footnotes on next page



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation
Cash Flow Projections and Financial Rate of Return
(Rupees Millions)
Year                           18        19        20        21       22        23        24      _ 25      26-30       31        32        33        34        35      36-39       40
I, Cash Inflow
(1)  Gross revenues               40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3     40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3
Subsidy 1/                      -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Long term debt 2/                -        _         _         _         _         _        _         _         _
Equity                          -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Total cash inflow                  40.3     40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3     40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3      40.3
Cash Outflow
(2)  Fixed assets  3/                 -         -        -       2.4       3.8       4.0      3.9       3.5          -      0.9       1.4       1.4       1.4       1.0         -      (5.3) 9/
(3)  operating expenses  4/        11.6     11,6      11.6      11.6      11.6      11.6     11.6      11.6       11.6    11.6       11.6      11.6      11.6      11.6      11.6      11.6
(4)  Deferred costs 5/                -         -        -         -         -         -         -        -           -       -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Income tax                   13.6      14.0      14.3      14.6     14.6      14.6      14.6      14.6       14.6    14.6       14.6      14.6      14.6      14.6      14.6      14.6
Debt service-Interest 6/    1.8         1.2       0.6         -         -         -        -         -          -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Debt service-Principal 7/   5.8         5.8       5.8         -         -         -         -        -          -        -         -         -                   -         -         -
Dividends  8/                 2.1       2.1       2.1       2.1       2.1       2.1      2.1       2.1        2.1      2.1       2.1       2.1       2.1       2.1       2.1       2.1
Total cash outflow                 34.9      34.7     34.4      30.7      32.1      32.3      32.2      31.8       28.3    29.2      29.7      29.7      29.7      29.3      28.3      23.0
Net cash flow/(outflow)             5.4       5.6       5.9      9.6       8.2       8.0       8.1       8.5       12.0    11.1      10.6      10.6      10.6      11.0      12.0      17.3
Cumulative net cash flow           54.7     60.3      66.2      75.8      84.0      92.0    100.1    108.6       168.6   179.7    190.3    200.9    211.5    222.5    270.5    287.8
II.   Financial Rate of Return
Net Benefits
(1)-(2)-(3)-(4)                    28.7     28.7      28.7      26.3      24.9      24.7      24.8      25.2       28.7    27.8      27.3      27.3      27.3      27.7      28.7      34.0
Physical contingencies             (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.3)    (0.4)    (0.5)    (0.5)    (0.5)            (0.1)   (0.1)    (0.2)    (0.2)       (0.2)    (0.2)    (0.1)        (0.1)
Net Benefits including
physical contingencies           28.6     28.6      28.6      26.0      24.5      24.2      24.3     24.7        28.6    27.7      27.1      27.1      27.1      27.5      28.6      33.9
Rate of Return before Physical Contingencies          18%
1/  At 500 rupees per ha, paid in 2 years.
7/  Debt/equity ratio 2:1.
3/  For details, see Annex 2, Table 4.3.
4/  For details, see Table 9.
5/  For details, see Table 9.
At 10.5% p.a., capitalized for 8 years.                                                                                                                                                     m
7/  20 year loan with 8 year grace period.
8/10% of equity.
Fixed assets and trees salvage value.



INDIA
CASHEWRNT PROJECT
AndAhea Fradesh Forest 0eveioapn,t CorPosatior
inca-. stateaent Pr2ojection
(R. Mlilli...n
Year           1                     2    3         4      5         6         7       8       9       11          t3 14                                            16        17       18        19        20      21 to 40
Gr... re..... 1/                        -       _        _     0.1      0.7     2.5      6.8     13.6      21.3     28.3      34.3     37.6      39.6     40.3      40.3     40.3      40.3      40.3     40.3      40.3     40.3
Operating apen...e
v'       Pradodttr cast. 1/                 -       - I            0.3      1.6     3.7      5.8      7.0       7.3      7.5       7.7      7.8       7.9      8.0       B.0       8.0      8.0       8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0
Staff al.rte. 2/                  _                       0.1     0.5      1.1     1.7       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0
Ornebhad -ant. 31               0...I                          .4       0.9        1.4       1.6       .        1                           1.6       1.6       1.6      1.6       1.6      1.6       1.6       1.6       1.66
Total Operating Expenses              _        _       _       0.5      2.5     5.7     8.9      10.6      10.9     11.l      11.3     11.4      11.5     13.6      11.6      11.6     11.6      11.6     11.6      11.6      11.6
Operating PrEfit((Laaa) . . .                                 (0.4)   (1.8)   (3.2)   (2.1)       3.0      10.4     17.2      23.0     26.2      28.1     28.7      28.7      28.7     28.7      28.7      28.7     28.7      28.7
Oepreciation 41                      (0.2)   (0.6)   (1.0)   (1.5)   (1.9)   (2.1)   (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)    (2.1)   z
Internal 5/                          (0.3)   (0.8)   (1.7)   (2.9)   (4.1)   (5.1)   (5.9)    (6.5)    (7.2)    (6.6)    (6.0)    (5.4)    (4.8)    (4.2)    (3.6)    (3.0)    (2.4)    (1.8)    (1.2)    (0.6)
Profit/(Loss) Bef-ce Taxer           (0.5)   (1.4)   (2.7)   (4.8)   (7.8)  (10.4)  (10.1)    (5.6)         1.1      8.5     14.9      18.7      21.2     22.4      23.0     23.6      24.2      24.8     25.4      26.0      26.6
Inca,ee 7aaoa (at 55.)                 _       _        _       _        _       _       _         _         _        _         _        _    (11.6)   (12.3)   (12.7)   (13.0)   (13.3)   (13.6)   (14.0)   (14.3)   (14.6)
Nct Prafit/(L o..) After Ta-ea       (0.5)   (1.4)   (2.7)   (4.8)   (7.8)  (10.4)  (10.1)    (5.6)         1.1      8.5      14.9     18.7       9.6     10.1      10.3     10.6      10.9      11.2      11.4     11.7      12.0
1/  For details ee Table 10.
2/  For detaIls see Table 1O and A.ne. 2, Table 5.3.
3/  Far detail. see Table 10 s.d As,es 2, Jhl1 4.3.
4/ Civil sacks 5, labar hassig, vehtcl-.,  qvi_t 101, def-r.d cost  2.5%.
5/  10.57 on 20 year loan., e8ta1led t.r         8 Va.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation
Gross Revenues, Production Costs, Deferred Costs
(Rupees 000's)
80/81    81/82
1        2        3                 T-v~-   5  6         7 4T5                 9          10         11         12         1T       to 4
Annual Planting (ha)                400    1,600   2,400   2,400    1,200             -                               - -                    -          -
Gross revenues -/                    -                  -        94       672    2,548    6,800    13,624    21,306    28,296    34,272    37,632    39,648    40,320
Production costs 2/
Expensed                           -        -         -       322    1,634    3,672    5,802         7,038      7,304       7,526      7,720      7,858      7,936       7,960
Deferred 3/                        632    2,952   5,830   7,704    6,492         ,324-                               -          -           -          -
Total                              632    2,952   5,830   8,026    8,126    6,996    6,828           7,038      7,304       7,526      7,720 2                7,936      7,960
S,amary of Deferred Costs 3/
Production costs                   632    2,952   5,830   7,704    6,492    3,324    1,026
Staff salaries 4/                  480       924   1,406   1,906    1,518         912       304
Overhead expenses 5/               201       517     871   1,168    1,096         728       242
Total                            1,313    4,393   8,107  10,778    9,106    4,964    1,572
1/              Year:     83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91 & on
Sales price (Rs/kg):      4.7       4.8       4.9       5.0       5.2       5.3       5.4          5.6
Year:       4         5         6         7         8         9        10 & after                                                                        a
Yields (kg/ha) from                                               
year 1 of planting:    50         150       400       600       700       800           900                                     |P
2/  For details see Table 2.
3/ Related to area yielding no nuts.
4/ For details, see Annex 2, Table 5.3.
5/ For details, see Annex 2, Table 4.3.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return to the Project 1/
(Rs Million)
Production        Capital and    Research,      Orissa Pilot   Kerala                                      Less:
Project  -    Costs------   Operating Costs  Study and      Coastal Dunes  Feeder  Total   Value of       NET     Future Benefits  INCREMENTAL
Year   Smallholder  SCs  Smallholder  SCs  Training  2/  Scheme 3/        Roads   Costs  Production  BENEFITS  Without Project  NET BENEFITS
0       0.0      0.0      1.3       0.3     0.0             0.0         0.0      1.6      0.0         -1.6          0.0            -1.6
1       1.7      1.5      4.7       9.0     0.4             0.1         1.0     18.4      0.0        -18.4          0.6           _19.0
2       8.4      7.1      6.0     15.7      2.0             0.2         3.7     43.1      0.0        -43.1          2.4           _45.5
3      17.8     14.3      5.0      18.4     3.2             0.4         5.7     64.8      1.2        -63.6         4.8            _68.4
4      27.1     20.5      5.1      19.2     2.6             0.5         5.7     80.7      4.2        -76.5          7.9           .84.4
5      31.1     21.9      5.1      17.8     1.9             0.6         2.9     81.3     12.5        -68.8         9.3            _78.1
6      30.8     20.4      5.0       9.7     0.1             0.5         0.1     66.6     33.3        -33.3        11.0            -44.3
7      31.0     20.4      4.9      9.7      0.1             0.5         0.1     66.7     74.2          7.5        11.2             -3.7
8      31.6     20.9      4.9       9.7     0.1             0.5         0.1     67.8    136.8         69.0        11.7             57.3
9      32.9     21.5      4.9       9.7     0.1             0.5         0.1     69.7    208.1        138.4         12.6           125.8
10      33.9     22.1      4.9       9.7     0.1             0.5         0.1     71.3    275.3        204.0         13.7           190.3
11      34.8     22.7      6.5      14.2     0.1             0.5         0.1     78.9    327.8        248.9         15.5           233.4
12      35.5     23.0      6.5      14.2     0.1             0.5         0.1     79.9    359.9        280.0         16.2           263.8
13      35.9     23.3      6.5       9.7     0.1             0.5         0.1     76.1    378.7        302.6         16.2           286.4    1
14-21      36.0     23.4      4.9       9.7     0.1             0.5         0.1     74.7    383.8        309.1         17.7           291.4   X
22-23      36.0     23.4       7.3     32.9     0.1             0.5         0.1    100.3    384.6        284.3         19.1           265.2    '
24-30      36.0     23.4      4.9       9.7     0.1             0.5         0.1     74.7    384.6        309.9        19.1            290.8
31      35.8     23.2      4.9       9.7     0.1             0.5         0.1     74.3    383.1        308.8          9.6           299.2
32      34.9     22.7      4.9       9.7     0.1             0.5         0.1     72.9    376.6        303.7          9.6           294.1
33      33.6     22.0      4.9       9.7     0.1             0.5         0.1     70.9    367.1        296.2          9.6           286.6
34      32.2     21.3      4.9       9.7     0.1             0.5         0.1     68.8    356.9        288.1          9.6           278.5
35-40      31.6     20.9      4.9       9.7     0.1             0.5         0.1     67.8    351.8        284.0          9.6           274.4
Economic Rate of Return - 257.
1/ For details, see Tables 2 and 3.
2/ For details, see Annex 2, Table 2.
3/ Production costs (adjusted for economic analysis) for 500 ha pilot coastal dunes scheme in Orissa to be implemented by
Orissa Dept. of Agriculture in 100 ha units annually, years 1-5.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return to Smallholder Component (35,000) 1!
(Rs million)
Less:
Production         Capital and                    Production  4/ Value of              NET      Future Benefits          INCREMENTAL
Project Year        Cost      2/  Operating Costs  3/  Total    ('000 tons)   production              BENEFITS   Without Project  6   NET BENEFITS
0                -                1.3                1.3                             -           (1.3)               -                 (1.3)
1             1.7                 4.7                6.4             -                           (6.4)             0.6                 (7.0)
2             8.4                 6.0               14.4             -               --         (14.4)             1.2                (15.6)
3            17.8                 5.0               22.8           0.1            0.6           (22.2)             3.0                (25.2)
4            27.1                 5.1               32.2           0.4             2.4          (29.8)             4.9                (34.7)
5            31.1                 5.1               36.2           1.2             7.5          (28.7)             5.6                (34.3)
6            30.8                 5.0               35.8           3.0           19.2          (16.6)              6.1                (22.7)
7            31.0                 4.9               35.9           6.5            42.7           6.8               5.9                  0.9
8            31.6                 4.9               36.5         11.6             78.2          41.7               6.0                 35.7         1
9            32.9                 4.9               37.8         17.2           118.9           81.1               6.0                 75.1        m
10            33.9                 4.9               38.8          22.1           156.8          118.0              7.0                111.0
11            34.8                 6.5               41.3          25.7           186.8         145.5               7.9                137.6
12            35.5                 6.5               42.0          28.2           205.0         163.0               7.9                155.1
13            35.9                 6.5               42.4          29.7           215.9         173.5               7.9                165.6
14-21             36.0                4.9               40.9          30.1           218.8          177.9              8.7                 169.2
22-23             36.0                7.3               43.3          30.2           219.6          176.3              9.4                 166.9
24-30             36.0                4.9               40.9          30.2           219.6          178.7              9.4                 169.3
31            35.8                 4.9               40.7          30.0           218.1         177.4               3.6                173.8
32            34.9                 4.9               39.8          29.5           214.5          174.7              3.6                171.1
33            33.6                 4.9               38.5          28.7           208.6         170.1               3.6                166.5
34            32.2                 4.9               37.1          27.9           202.8          165.7              3.6                162.1
35-40             31.6                4.9               36.5          27.5           199.9          163.4              3.6                 159.8
Economic Rate of Return   317
1/  Aggregated costs and benefits for Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa smallholder components, new
and improved plantations, expressed in constant (October 1979) Rupees. Year 0 = Indian FY 79/80.
2/  For details, see Annex 4, Tables 2 and 4. Adjustments for economic analysis have been made for the fertilizer
component (35% of production costs) using a conversion factor of 1.215 (weighted for % N, P, K), for pesticides
(15% of production costs) by deducting local taxes (4.4%) and for farm labor (50% of production costs) by using
70% of the market wage rate. See para 8.03.
3/  State government departmental costs for administering smallholder development and Orissa pilot coastal dunes
scheme, including physical contingencies. For details, see Annex 2, Tables 3.1 - 3.4.
4/  See Annex 5, Table 4.
5/ Price is a weighted average for all states, based on world market projections, of Rs 6,405 in 1985 rising to
Rs 7,270 for 1990 onwards. For details, see Table 6.                                                                                                  >
6/  Existing plantations without project yields taken as 200 kg/ha. In the futuire without the project, it is
estimated that 10% of the new areas would be developed with a medium level of managemeu.t, yielding 400 kg/h a at
full development.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return to State Corporations Component (26,275 ha) i'
(Rs Million)
Less:
Production        Capital and                 production 4/ Value of               NET     Future Benefits         INCREMENTAL
Project Year      Cost      2/  Operating Costs  3/  Total  ('000 tons)   Production 5/    BENEFITS   Without Project 6/    NET BENEFITS
0              -                0.3               0.3          -              -             (0.3)             0                   (0.3)
1            1.5                9.0              10.5          -              -           (10.5)              0                  (10.5)
2            7.1               15.7              22.8          -              -           (22.8)            1.2                  (24.0)
3           14.3               18.4              32.7        0.1            0.6           (32.1)            1.8                 (33.9)
4           20.5               19.2              39.7        0.3            1.8           (37.9)            3.0                  (40.9)
5           21.9               17.8              39.7        0.8            5.0           (34.7)            3.7                 (38.4)
6           20.4                9.7              30.1        2.2           14.1           (16.0)           5.1                  (21.1)
7           20.4                9.7              30.1        4.8           31.5             1.4             5.1                  (3.7)
8           20.9                9.7              30.6        8.7           58.6            28.0            5.7                   22.3                X
9           21.5                9.7              31.2       12.9           89.2            58.0            6.6                   51.4               c
10           22.1                9.7              31.8       16.7          118.5            86.7             6.7                  80.0
11           22.7               14.2              36.9       19.4          141.0           104.1             7.6                  96.5
12           23.0               14.2              37.2       21.3          154.9           117.7            8.3                  109.4
13           23.3                9.7              33.0       22.4          162,8           129.8            8.3                  121.5
14-21           23.4                9.7              33.1       22.7          165.0           131.9             9.0                 122.9
22-23            23.4              32.9              56.3       22.7          165.0           108.7             9.7                  99.0
24-30            23.4               9.7              33.1       22.7          165.0           131.9             9.7                 122.2
31           23.2                9.7              32.9       22.7          165.0           132.1            6.0                  126.1
32           22.7                9.7              32.4       22.3          162.1           129.7            6.0                  123.7
33           22.0                9.7              31.7       21.8          158.5           126.8            6.0                  120.8
34           21.3                9.7              31.0       21.2          154.1           123.1            6.0                  117.1
35-40           20.9                9.7              30.6       20.9          151.9           121.3            6.0                  115.3
Economic Rate of Return   24%
1/  Aggregated costs and benefits for Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa state corporation components, new and improved
plantations, expressed in constant (October 1979) Rupees. Year 0 = Indian FY 79/80.
2/  For details, see Annex 4, Tables 2 and 4. Adjustments for economic analysis have been made for the fertilizer component (15% of
production costs) using a conversion factor of 1.215 (weighted for % N, P, K), for pesticides (15% of production costs) by
deducting local taxes (4.4%) and for farm labor (50% of production costs) by using 70% of the market wage rate. See para 8.03.
3/  State corporations' costs for administering development of 26,275 ha, including physical contingencies. For details, see Annex 2,
Tables 4.1 - 4.4.
4/  See Annex 5, Table 4.
5/ Price is a weighted average for all states, based on world market projections, of Rs 6,405 in 1985 rising to Rs 7,270 for 1990
onwards. For details, see Table 6.
6/ Existing plantations without project yields taken as 200 kg/ha. In the future without the project, it is estimated that 10% of
the new areas would be developed with a medium level of management, yielding 400 kg/ha at full development.
uQ



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Projected Incremental Production From the Project 1/
(Tons)
Smallholders                              State Corporations                         Total Development
New                                         New                                          New
Planta-        Improve-                     Planta-        Improve-                      Planta-        Improve-
Year         tion            ment          Total         tion            ment          Total          tion            ment        Total
2              -             20             20             -             15              15             -             35            35
3              -            125            125             -             80              80             -            205          205
4             75            325            400            55            220             275           130            545           675
5            535            635          1,170           405            425             830           940          1,060        2,000
6         1,980             980          2,960         1,510            650          2,160          3,490          1,630        5,120
7         5,185           1,295          6,480         3,950            860          4,810          9,135          2,155       11,290
8         9,990           1,595         11,585         7,620          1,065          8,685        17,610           2,660       20,270
9        15,325          1,875          17,200        11,695          1,250         12,945        27,020           3,125       30,145        1
10        19,975           2,150         22,125        15,245          1,430         16,675         35,220          3,580       38,800        X
11        23,335           2,395         25,730        17,805          1,595         19,400         41,140          3,990       45,130        4
12        25,620           2,565         28,185        19,550          1,710         21,260         45,170          4,275       49,445        1
13        26,995           2,665         29,660        20,600          1,780         22,380         47,595          4,445       52,040
14-30      27,450           2,700         30,150        20,945          1,800         22,745         48,395          4,500       52,895
31        27,450           2,565         30,015        20,945          1,710         22,655         48,395          4,275       52,670
32        27,450           2,025         29,475        20,945          1,350         22,295         48,395          3,375       51,770
33        27,450           1,215         28,665        20,945            810         21,755        48,395           2,025       50,420
34        27,450             405         27,855        20,945            270         21,215         48,395            675       49,070
35-40      27,450               0         27,450        20,945               0        20,945         48,395               0      48,395
1/  Raw nuts. Based on implementation schedule detailed in Table 5 (Year 1 = Indian FY80/81) and
projected yields after year 1 planting as follows:
Year   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10-40
New Plantation (kg/ha)                    -   -   -  50  150 400 600 700 800   900
Year   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10-30
Improved Plantation (kg/ha)               -  100 150 250 325 350 450 500 550   600                                               L t



- 90 -
ANNEX S
Table 5
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Annual Implementation of Cashew Development -
'(ha)
Indian FY                        80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85
Project Year                       1         2         3         4         5       Total
New Plantation
Smallholders
Kerala                           500      2000      3000     3000      1500      10000
Karnataka                        375      1500      2250     2250      1125       7500
Andhra Pradesh                   400      1600      2400     2400      1200       8000
Orissa                           250      1000     1500      1500       750       5000
Subtotal                    1525     6100      9150      9150      4575     30500
State Corporations
Kerala                           100       450       700      700       325       2275
Karnataka                        125       500       750      750       375       2500
Andhra Pradesh                   400      1600      2400     2400      1200       8000
Orissa                           525      2100      3150     3150      1575      10500
Subtotal                    1150     4650      7000      7000      3475     23275
Total New Plantation              2675    10750    16150    16150        8050      53775
Improvement
Smallholders
Karnataka                        125       500       750      750       375       2500
Andhra Pradesh                   100       400       600      600       300       2000
Subtotal                     225      900      1350      1350       675      4500
State Corporations
Karnataka                         25       100       150      150        75        500
Orissa                           125       500       750      750       375       2500
Subtotal                     150       600      900       900       450       3000
Total Improved Plantation          375      1500      2250     2250      1125       7500
Total Smallholder Development       1750      7000    10500    10500       5250      35000
Total State Corporation
Development                      1300      5250      7900     7900      3925      26275
TOTAL DEVELOPMENT                   3050    12250    18400    18400        9115      61275
l/  Implementation of new cultivation and improvement of existing plantations based
on estimated development of 5% total ha in year 1, 20% in year 2, 30% in years
3 and 4 and 15% in year 5.



- 91 -                   ANNEX 5
Table 6
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Price Summary for Economic and Financial Analysis
Economic -           Financial
1985    1990         1985   1990
Cashew Kernels (Rs/ton) 2!
FOB Cochin
Kerala                                38,900  43,230       32,675  36,2315
Other States                          35,950  39,810       30,200  33,565
Farmgate (Raw Nuts)
Kerala                               6,144   7,127         4,335   5,100
Other States                         6,473   7,306        4,900   5,590
Fertilizer (Rs/ton) -
Farmgate
N                                           5,000                4,000
P                                           4,200                3,500
K                                           1,700                1,500
Pesticide (Rs/litre)
Farmgate                                        57.4                   60
Farm Labor (Rs/workday) -/
Karnataka                                        5.6                     8
Kerala                                           7.0                    10
Andhra Pradesh                                   4.2                     6
Orissa                                           2.8                    4
1/ Economic prices for traded commodities (cashews and fertilizer) calculated
with foreign exchange valued at Rs 10 = US$1, reflecting an estimated
standard conversion factor for India of 0.8.
2/ Based on projection for 1985-1990 onwards for 320 wholes, expressed in
constant late 1979 Rupees. Adjustment has been made to reflect superior
outturn in India by applying an outturn conversion of 0.95, a weighted
average of processing in the four states participating in the project.
For details, see para 6.07 and Table 6.6.
3/ Based on IBRD projections of 1985 world market prices.See Annex 2, Rajasthan
Command Area and Settlement Project Staff Appraisal Report No. 2712-IN.
4/ Financial price for Endosulfan; adjusted by local taxes to derive economic
price.
5/ For economic analysis, farm labor is valued at 70% of market wage rates.



ANNEX 6
- 92-
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports relating to the Project
1. Government of Kerala "Cashew Development Project - Kerala," September, 1978.
2. The Plantation Corporation of Kerala Ltd. "Cashew Project Report."
3. Government of Karnataka "Project for Development of Cashews", September, 1978.
4. Government of Karnataka "Revised Programme of Cashew Development in
Private Holdings in Karnataka with IDA Assistance."
5. Government of Andhra Pradesh "Cashew Plantation Project," 1978.
6. Government of Orissa "Cashew Development Project of Orissa," September, 1978.
7. Central Plantation Crops Research Institute "Multi-State Research Project."
B. Selected Working Papers
1. Technical Aspects of Cashew Growing.
2. Corporations as Project Implementation Units.
3. Processing and Marketing of Cashewnuts.
4. Cashew Kernel Marketing.
5. Project Credit and Banking.



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
|  - - - COOROIN-T-ON             |    - -- - --- - - - ---- - ---- -
LL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_.-                                                                                        I : : -                    L                 :                                                   :
rIIKI                                                                                                                                                                                       ANON  K .  . C   .  j  LS tWENT  i  i   SECF ti   j   LE    i   _   CNS
L- - - -. -F- - -AJ
I                 r~~~~- - --     ----------                                                                            r     i                                 ir    
I ~ ~            ~             ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i                            I  
A          --At._._._._.1 Ii.
l_  UNIV8RSITY   TODl:        DAT          C DSRTEON  i    SOST            AD            CA      4l~TT O            COPTTO             OAITT
L.      .        .           .       .           I
I~~~~~ ~~~ i                                        i                     j                  I ,i'                                     I                         -i                      I             i' 
IA                           i                         .
Z1,           ..................~ ~~~~~~~~~~RLLOADA....L...............S
L 5M~~~~~~~~~~~~ALLODR jSMALOL 5  _fi_ ji_ _  SML LRS i;;O E |-       
OTOT  D,AIAg b,O A..ASAI rAA IAR.dDI 0  m  s                                                                                                                                                                                    -IAe
. o AOACwsUTu  Aelnur  d A D ewomn   Coola



-                                                                                                                          m 
C                                  Ql                                     II                                  I    
1; Q  .        .                   L           , E                     .-7                     7
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_o               II.
-"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  oF      



> >E r g C > > o r r r
c o z m vI > o > o > > >
Ix~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
a a                                                   W c 1 > > r r c  >
>      >                    I '
n   *            W    Y |    r  I                                                            n           = Q z i <0I~  I8   > 
A~~~~ r                           11             I l                 I             
=>   I                                               _ I               I                           m  _
-S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 96 -
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF EXTENSION AND CASHEW UNITS
KARNATAKA AND DRISSA
*---- .............           -      . Now serices to be provided by the project.........           -       -       -      -.Existin..............g...........................................----.--servicg--.----esisin..rvce........................s.............
Cashew  Unit                                                                                                   Horticultural  Soil Constroation Services                 Extension Strics
r~-  1   X.  7 
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 rS                                                                                                                                                                            DO/DC J  XC  
I     CASHEWS                                        _
DDH/DDS   |          l    FsANCF   2                 DDH/DDSC       I    -
DPEPATION     ADMIN S-ATION       I         AND
L. _-   __J                                              L        I NPU75   _J                                                                 H        i                                     i
_ | DHO/DSCO | .. ~... .... ........ .... . -    - --.---S  -............
CASHEWS         I 1 PI2 Dinl05- 01,10                         _
r  -- IS --H7  I        PINANCE5             I       SMS          14 in Ri:
COPS                      AND           I   I     CASHEWS            in KErnaTkT
__  ___                 LARMINISRATION  J    L                          ,____
1,~HSE11,_        L    C/IW            <S                     *                                                                       =              -*  _  --  i  .SA
HD1ASHD             *          /                                                                       -._
A    I      AHICAO                                                                                                                          DV
I           CASH1EWS    !    *t  z1.AE
2-S  SOApo H      .......OD. .....    .                           .
0 AD       AHD          / ADS
L_____O-      ,05s SI             I   I   IIlse II I5 I5, CT,,l 105111510105F CHIsI0  SIT  Sl,
AHO/SCA                   
T     CASHEWS 01001_ ..1.A , ,   .R.  VFW
2-6 SCA-prASCD-
Y-ROAHO-pe AD.   
F IIIA I..ID I  ............    1,/he CmpoAl-/Dwr~sim, Or,-i.,IS  -ID I.n P-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wSAItODir,, ... /.   iILe evco  !f              u                                                                                    SA f re.4 nKlork
DA/DH/DIIOSCO        Di-e0to1 ASVSsIIJIIIIH5,-tIl-I 15A ,Il CO-STC1IIIIT jOII ,                                                                             SI _n 3- I th i-l o--  III,                    A-.vice Il  Sl10i55 1    Sl 511 751101 S IOl    SI
SOAD  5l15-L5.oeiHsal ~~~~~ OS5~~,                                                                                    00015o1450 STISC SSI CHVseISOIIS50511I,115 OTHISIC-  Olilo,, Pr.j
DAD/D DO/DC sO        Oi,st ,  siufrl/oteIlo /S. I C-o Sel_ .1 on: i.1 n-c-
SDAO                  sub Dwi-lon Agiii-i Ill   tfcr      n                                                                                                      poa   bf h    lC c,ain6.sc    a  tOfc
AECO                            E--1-CSt                                                   . .iS.. 011 0e, , , ,  COORDINATION OH SEDTICES
AHO/ASCO           --Assis,anT s.i5I,s,ll1vaISs I CoSseoDolso 011ic
-A/SC.               l101 i- .;s .l1                                                              .I. C  .sewo-   . .  TRAININ-
V,W                   V l-Se  1-t0ns   -5 1.,



- 97 -
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
MODEL ORGANIZATION CHART FOR CORPORATIONS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MANAGING1'
DIRECTOR
HEADQUARTERS       ~CHIEF FINANCE            PERSONNEL                   CE F
OFFICER/SECRETARY            OFFICER           |       CHNIC                                                CUTIVE ENGINEER
ACCOUNTS OFFICE                                                                                     A                  ASIT[
2000 H.                                                          LAT
2000 Ha   |                           |         ~~~~~~~~~~PLANTATION                            9
PLANTATIONS                                                      MANAGERN
SENIOR  ~       DMIISTRATION                  ORSMEDICAL
COUTAN                                      WORKS - 
ACCUNTANT                                         SUPERVISOR                   RVICES
ACCOUNTS
|   OFFICE  
ASSISTANT PLANTATION                                                       ASSISTANT PLANTATION
1000 Ha UNITS                MANAGER                                                                    MANAGER
200 Ha BLOCK     I
1/ Or Generat Maneger
|FOREMAN             FOR N             k
World Sank- 19984



- 98 -
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
ALTERNATIVE MODEL ORGANIZATION CHART
FOR CASHEW DEVELOPMENT BY
PLANTATION CORPORATION OF KERALA AND ANDHRA PRADESH FOREST CORPORATION
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
IIL
MANAGING
DIRECTOR" 
CHIEF FINANCE OFFICER          PERSONNEL                                              EXECUTIVE
SECRETARY                  OFFICER                                              ENGINEERN       l
ACCOUNTS                                                           ASSISTANT              ASSISTANT
OFFICE                                                            ENGINEER               ENG INEER
MANAGER21|  MANAGER                                                                         MANAER        l
|  MANAGERI  l                      ~~~CASHEWS                                |MNGR 
IACCOUNTS3/       i PERSONNEL' I |CHIEF TECHNICL| MARKETING!/ |                                  I ENGINEERING3 I
I   SECTION N     I      SECTION             OFFICER                        OFFICER                    SECTION
PLANTATION5J
MANAG ER
11 May be assisted by General Manager.
Z1 Manager for other Crops - e.g. bamboo, eucalyptus and coffee in Andhra Pradesh and rubber and oil palm in Kerala.
3   These services may be provided by Corporation Headquarters to the Manager Cashews initially and
may be transferred to the Manager Cashews when the size of his operation warrants such transfer.
4   Post to be filled when new plantations come into full bearing.
5' Organization of plantations, units and blocks as in Chart 19984.
World Bank-21066



INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of Main Project Activities
1979                          1 980                          1981                           1982                           1983                           1981,
-1                                                          --                    -T
JIF    A MJ JIAISICIINID                     ATI: F. [T. I                                                              ITITMFIF- IM I A          III   ITIT.W.          A.
T- TA--,F, F--[- N D    m T- 9 Ts. H D
1. EARLYPROJECTACTWITCES
bObta',.t,. fo, SI.ff App-t
en f, D'0.,t-tal C.ht. U,U
(tJp.p-  Bakl                                                              u
(d) App.it-t'.gf `H(Z'dq..,t111 Stff by                      m mm n
2. DEPA RTMENTALCASHEWUNITS
W St. i
f
R`- "-t                                                 mmmm:m own                                    on
A
W Vhpi.pl ad Eqip-t
Tedt-q                                                  own mme                               0
SPply                                                           =mm =no
3, CORPORATIONS
FMd SlMf
Rt`-Z-t                                                                                                                          mm  0
App-t-,                                                                                                       Fs
I,IV,,, I` ..d Eq.,p-t
T-d -g                                                                                                                                                                                      mmmo
SPply                                                                                                                                                                                               somm
0 Cy'l
,,.=1/,DKg-g
sq S2
T-d-
C-v-ti                                                                                                                                                    mmmmul
(d) P(m.ti-                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10
Ud Cl..-'                                                                                                            mm                                                                                                             la
Ld P,p.,                                                                                    WIN
IPt P-h',t,i"                                                                               no
4  SMALLHOLIDERS                                                                                                                                                                                               7
) P,.Jt p'-,i_                        I I I          I I I
b) Id f B.-.-
bil,ly                                                                                                                                                                                      7      1,
dL
... P"'
WL-d P,P-t-'
(f) PI--g I IP'.-q
5, KERALA FEEDER ROADS
IR-11
h) D-,. -d Pl,-g
A,-g,g C..t-t-d
P-h-
6. [NUSTWES STUOY
SO n'.4
Fi'Id W.A                                                                                                                                                                                f
RP.,t Wmmq                                                                                                                         m
7, FtESEARCH
P'-g-- PI---9
S.bZtion L-d Acq.iw-
S1.ff
F; --t
App nt-t
(d Wh.d ad Eq.,p-t
T-d 0,,g
S.Pply
I.) CMI W-k
Tld-ng
C-t-ti-
If) C..,h.. Pl--q                                                                                                                                W n
IL LIL                                                                                                                                                   JLLL L  LL) A! -i-Li
II Addifi.-I ti-                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV,,Id FA-,   20OGr






IBRD 14193R1
DEM.2EROF* t~   l  Approouote Line Control                    8r                                  9J 0?                    !
DEM. REP. OFC *'                                                              ~ 
AFGHANISTAN  ',,,,,                                                                                                          N                                         L :
_! '                          ',,/'~'t & C H I N A                     ..B I H A R                                                                           /
PAKISTAN  "                                                                                                             *          V                                        i-tr.
zr_             ',*   PAL   .HNTNf'-'        .. .                                                                                                     WEST
.~~~~  ~~~~' ~~~BENGAL   \
> X -._____.                                             MADHYA  PRADESH                                                                    B
I N D I A                    <
ABJRMA                                                                                            i r          7I> . 
<"   BA 1' 0/ BY Of        GAL    ;                                       t8                                                          y S A   _            20'-
S]EA~~~~m
NSRI LANKA                 .                                 /j ,-.                                                  E    N          A
700   .  ;  ! ve t a ~~~~~~~o6.! 
MAHARASHTRA   
7'                              /'       ~            /    0 9
Vengur                   '                      D.  891_                                              W                B/ EN  GA
ARABfi/AN                     XtX                        ez,,~,2n<CASF-EWNLJT PROJECT
SEtA                 citii,fhS   ,>           ~t>if  '                                     .'j   Prtoect States
5EA        Q>                   X   ma  ,              ;                          ,__ aLProject Districts                   -
Wtta,/sm
-  SAanisgehod                                                                               '.'' vMinor Cashew Production Areos
Clos',uns
L7       Mator Cashew Production Areos
f :?fcz70h0467c,                 TAM  I L       ANfadeoa                                 *     Minor Cashew Processing Centers
II01ap      \;                  NADU   '$                                                *     Medium  Cashew Processing Centers
Maof pprotr\a$ysvAcR                   /  .- .$/                                      *      tai1or Cashew Processing Center
-10-          i1Mcm't                                                                                                       _ E Notional Cashew Research Center    ,                0.
41                        Cochin                                                                             A     Cashew  Research Stations
Mctor Cashew Export Port
Other Stote Boundaries
Internationoi Boundaries
This enep has been prepared by the
World dank's staff #e-Icsively for
the convenience of the readers of
the report to which it is attoched-                                                                                  0       t
rha denominations used and the                                                                                               1        200      300       400       500
boundaries shown an this map                                                          t                                        I '-1
do not iply. ont the pert ofthe                                                                                                       K ILO MET ERS
World Bank and itts ffiliates, any                                                      SRI  LANKA
judgment on the legal status of
ony terntory or any endorsement
or ecceptat-e of such boundaries                                                    . 80
APRIL 1980



