Document of                    FILE  CflPV
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2770-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AS SOC IAT ION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
April 10, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of April 1, 1980)
US$1.00             Rs 8.278765
Rs 1.00         =   US$0.12079
Rs 1 million   =   US$120,790
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed against
a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are now
floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject
to change. Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were
made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.40, which represents the projected
exchange rate over the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
ARDC     -   Agriculture Refinance and Development Corporation Limited
CCI      -   Cashew Corporation of India
CNSL     -   Cashewnut shiell liquid
CPCRI    -   Central Plantation Crops Research Institute
GOI      -   Government of India
ICAR     -   Indian Council for Agricultural Research
LDB      -   Land Development Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:        The States of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka and
Orissa, the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation (ARDC) and participating banks, Andhra
Pradesh Forest Development Corporation, Karnataka
Cashew Development Corporation, Orissa Cashew Develop-
ment Corporation, Plantation Corporation of Kerala,
Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR), and
smallholder farmers.
Amount:               US$22 million equivalent.
Terms:                Standard.
Relending Terms:      GOI to the States and ICAR:  Financing in accordance with
Borrower's standard arrangements for development assist-
ance.
GOI to ARDC to refinance loans to farmers and the
State Corporations:
(a) GOI-to ARDC, interest rate at 6% per annum in
respect of ARDC refinancing for up to 9 years
and 6-.5% for refinancing for up to 15 years.
G01 to bear foreign exchange risk.
(b) ARDC to Participating Banks, interest rate at
6.5% per annum for lending to small farmers 1/
and 7.5% for lending to other borrowers.
Installment repayments to coincide approximately
with expected collections of loans financed.
(c) Participating Banks to Borrowers, interest rate
at 9.5% per annum to -small farmers and 10.5% to
other borrowers. Farmers' contribution to be a
minimum of 5% of investment cost and Corporations'
contribution to be a minimum of 20% of investment
cost. Repayment periods to be based on borrowers'
repayment capacity.
1/   Small farmers are defined as those cultivating land providing a pre-
development net return to family income not exceeding Rs 2,000 annually
(based on 1972 prices).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project
Description:         The project would help finance a cashew production pro-
gram in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh
and Orissa, together with necessary supporting facili-
ties. Cashew plantations would include new planting on
53,775 ha and improvements of existing plantation on
7,500 ha. About 30,500 ha of new planting and 4,500 ha
of improvements would be carried out by smallholder
farmers, and 23,275 ha of new planting and 3,000 ha of
improvements by State Corporations. The project would
also strengthen cashew development units in each State,
strengthen State Corporations, and implement a program
of research and training and a cashew industry study.
Project rislks include the possible lack of coordination
among the numerous agencies involved in implementation,
and a possible lack of adequate response from the farmers
for the proposed long-gestation investments. Measures
have been included to coordinate, monitor and expedite
all phases of implementation, and necessary services and
incentives would be provided to farmers. The risks are,
therefore, no greater than normally found in this kind
of project.
Estimated Costs:                                     Local   Foreign   Total
…-   (US$ millions)----
Smallholder Cashew
Planting/Improvement        10.2       1.1      11.3
Cashew Support Units            3.0       0.2       3.2
State Corporations             16.3       1.1     17.4
Cashew Industry Study           0.1        -        0.1
Research                        0.9       0.1       1.0
Training                        0.1        -        0.1
Orissa Pilot Scheme             0.2        -        0.2
Kerala Feeder Roads             1.9       0.1       2.0
Total Base Cost            32.7       2.6      35.3
Physical Contingencies          0.9        -       0.9
Price Contingencies             8.8      0.7        9.5
Total Project Cost /a    42.4         3.3      45.7
/a   Includes US$1.8 million in taxes and duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                     Local   Foreign   Total
-----(US$ millionsyT ---
IDA Credit                    18.7       3.3     22.0
GOI/States                    12.6        -      12.6
ARDC                           8.3        -       8.3
Banks                          2.3        -       2.3
Growers                        0.5        -       0.5
Total Cost                 42.4       3.3     45.7
Estimated                                                 (US$ Million)
Disbursement:                                FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
Annual                  0.6    2.7    4.2       6.5    8.0
Cumulative              0.6    3.3    7.5    14.0   22.0
Rate of Return:       25%
Appraisal Report:    No. 2437-IN dated April 10, 1980






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
INDIA FOR A CASHEWNUT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opmenL credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$22 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a project designed to improve cashewnut production
in India.  The Govelimrsient of India (GOI) would relend US$13.7 million to the
Agricultural Refinauce and Development Corporation (ARDC) for 15 years at 6.5%
annit31 interest with GOI bearing the exchange risk. ARDC would use this por-
ti'.^ to refinance loans to cashewnut growers in the States of Andhra Pradesh,
Ka)nir aka, Kerala and Orissa.  GOI would channel US$7 million to the four
StaLes in accordance with its standard arrangements for development assistance
to tb)r States in India. The remaining amount (US$1.3 million), would be used
by COI to finance cashew research and study.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 652 million people (in
mid-1979) whose average income is US$150 per annum. The agricultural sector
dominates the economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and con-
tributing over 40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides
a fullsome subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all
families in rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions,
and many who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough
to bring about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity
and rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as a
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food. Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in-many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project
(Report No. P-2753-IN), dated March 27, 1980.



-2-
5.         This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domesLic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.         India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resour,zes, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.         India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%.  Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, stagnating
output and world inflation have lied to significant increases in prices during
the first half of the 1979/80 fiscal year. The wholesale price index for
September 1979 was 18.4% above that of the previous September. Together, the
rise in the prices of food products, crude petroleum and mineral oils accounted
for over two-thirds of the increase in the index. However, prices of almost
all commodities moved up significantly over this period as reflected in the
9.6% increase in the prices of the residual commodities. Government attempts
to regulate the supply and price of commodities like sugar and edible oils,
ceilings on credit, adjustment of some interest rates and the seasonal downturn



- 3 -
of the fruit and vegetable prices after summer helped the wholesale price
index to level off after September. However, if allowance is made for the
seasonal factors, prices are still rising at approximately an 18% annual rate.
The Indian economy will no doubt continue to face inflationary pressure during
the 1980/81 fiscal year. Its intensity will to a large extent depend on the
developments in world inflation, especially the rise in oil prices and India's
success in alleviating the supply bottlenecks that emerged during 1979.
Although the current inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-
term growth prospects, given available aggregate resources and production
capacity, significant improvements are likely to be required in the organ-
ization of key sectors if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.         The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of
126 million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains
were timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed
both lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricul-
tural production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions
to area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth has been impres-
sive, particularly since it followed two successive years of very high growth--
18% in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption in 1978/79
was 75% higher than in 1975/76. However, prospects for agricultural produc-
tion in 1979/80 are not good. India experienced a severe drought in 1979.
The monsoon was delayed and subsequent rainfall was deficient throughout the
country. Consequent damage to the kharif crop has been substantial. Tenta-
tive estimates indicate a shortfall of 13-15 million tons in kharif crop from
last year's level of 78.7 million tons. Delayed sowing, lack of soil moisture,
low levels of water in tanks and wells as well as power cutbacks and recent
shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are adversely affecting the rabi
crop. Depending on the performance of the rabi crop, total shortfall in grain
crop is expected to be 17-20 million tons below the 1978/79 level.
9.         The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand. During the first
half of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to retard
overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement, sugar,
cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels. Strong
demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as fertilizers
and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these can counter-
balance the constrained sectors.



- 4 -
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 72% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth in
1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somiewhat.  After rising by 12% in 1975/76                       -
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in. 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part
of the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit rcsulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion :i.n 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid Oisbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$. .5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion. Exports during the first
three months of this fiscaI year are 32% higher than the same quarter of
last ye.--.  Although part of the increase is due to the dollar depreciation
and recove;y in coffee prices, the prospects of sustaining a volume growth
of at least 7% during 1979/80 appear good. Imports in the first quarter
of 1979/80 are around 7% higher than the same period of the previous year.
However, the impact of recent increases in petroleum prices are only partially
reflected in this figure. India's total POL import bill for 1979/80 is likely
to reach $3.2 billion, $800 million higher than earlier estimates. As a
result, there should be a sharp deceleration in the rate of growth of reserves
sufficient to significantly reduce the number of months of imports covered by
reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
11.       The faster growth of the recent past has been made possible by the
much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased exports, workers'
remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agricultural performance;
the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of import controls; and ex-
panded public expenditure on development programs. Although sustaining the
high growth rates of the recent past in the medium-term is by no means assured,
especially if there is a repeated drought in 1980, India has a level of re-
sources with which to manage the economy that had not existed before. The
comfortable foreign exchange position, and the large foodgrain stocks have
greatly eased the pressures to deal with short-term crises and freed India's
economic managers to continue planning a more ambitious course for the economy.
The policy improvements needed to achieve the better performance now possible
have begun in some important areas but in others have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant



-5-
underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and.distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, dev-
elopment programs and secular trenids all seem favorable for resuming a period
of sustained high growth after 1979/80. Fertilizer prices have been reduced
progressively from their very'high level in early 1975 and despite some fall
in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer: foodgrain price ratio has fallen
to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests and higher farm incomes provide
the money to finance higher fertilizer purchases, creating something of a
virtuous circle. Pricing policies. for many crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane,
pulses and others--have concetntrated recently on. supporting prices to maintain
incentives to'farmers rather than trying to administratively control prices
to contain inflation.  The ambitious irrigation and rural electrification
Lnvestment program in the new'Five-Year Plan, if fully funded, will help pro-
vide the water control needed to increase yields directly and to induce further
productivity-increasing investments. The effective reorganization of the
agricultural extension service will raise yields as it takes hold gradually
across India.  Finally, there are several hearteining trends in foodgrain pro-
duction: one is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties
of rice; another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the
traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends
along with the other favorable developments have caused rice production to
rise impressively in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain
production is the rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditional rice
areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces, increase in planned invest-
ment along with adroit input supply management should allow the industrial
sector to continue to grow at the improved rate of the recent past, at least
for the near- and medium-term future. Over the longer term, growth of indus-
trial production at or above the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g.,
7% per annum during the last four years--will require some changes in policy
to induce a more efficient industrial structure. Recent industrial policies
have sent mixed signals to private manufacturers and investors. Some, such as
reserving certain lines of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibit-
ing the location of new firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive.
'Others have been stimulative, such as the raising of the exemption limit of
industrial licensing for capitai investment or favorable adjustments in the



-6-
pricing and production controls in several major industries, including cement,
steel, and textiles. In addition the liberalization of import controls is of
considerable benefit to increasing industrial production. However, there are
some worrisome supply shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid
industrial growth. Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long
as India maintains a healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply
constraints likely to persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and
power -- cannot be eased through itaports. The new Plan contains a major power
investment program to increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment pro-
gram is more modest. Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and
into most other major sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to improvement in agricultural output. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself feLt and is expected to continue into the future unless the growth
in agricultural output is constrained by repeated droughts. Another source
of demand is public expenditure on development projects, which has grown in
a major way in the last few years and is scheduled to continue to grow under
the new Five-Year Plan. A third source of growth is export demand for indus-
trial goods, There has been a sustained growth in the export of manufactures
such as engineering goods, garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical
products. This export growth should continue in the future with proper policy
support.  A final source of growing demand is private investment by both the
household and corporate sectors.  There are as yet only a few signs of this
growth, such as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and in-
creased use of inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the
other sources of demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to con-
strain production in more industries.  The net result of increasing demand
should be continued high growth in industrial production in the near and
medium. term within existing policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/
83), foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or
less, and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part
of the adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of
imports; the import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to



-7-
sustain the target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the
achievement of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in
volume terms. Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign
exchange to sustain the rapid growth in.imports but also to allow foreign
demand and competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally,
part of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 30 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level. The low
performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth control
policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning performance has
been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible before it
was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued support for
the program of family welfare, Bank estimates indicate that India's rate of
population increase should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by about
the year 2000. Despite the declining trend in the rate of population increase,
a net reproduction rate (NRR) equal to one (replacement level) would only be
achieved around the year 2020. At this time, the total population is estimated
to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 84% over the mid-1979 level
of 652 million.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these families with
more land are not good because of the virtual absence of uncultivated arable
land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and the limited amount of
land that would be available if land reform were carried out. Estimates of
the amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried out vary
greatly. One estimate is that there would be about 9 million hectares avail-
able for distribution. This compares to roughly 45 million families in the two
poorest groups in rural India: landless families and families owning less than
one hectare of land, whose average holding is 0.31 hectares.  An approach to
the amelioration of poverty more promising than land reform is the creation
of more employment opportunities for the landless and small farmers in rural
areas. Although the basic thrust must come from the market by a more rapidly
increasing agricultural output, there will be a role for employment-intensive
rural works programs. The new Plan provides for increased rural employment
both through direct employment schemes and through ambitious programs of
investment in rural infrastructure in addition to the more general rural
development programs.



PART II - BANK GROIJP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 118 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US$7,255 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,051 million had
been repaid, and US$3,377 million was still undisbursed as of February 29,
1980. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
February 29, 1980, totalled US$366 million, representing an increase of about
32% over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of
disbursements as of February 29, 19180, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.6
million, of which US$17.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$40.7 million, US$31.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$9.1 million equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of February 29, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better
capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in
supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and tihe Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need



-9-
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocaled to India remains-small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. Tlte ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
February 29, 1980, outstanding loans to India held by-the Bank totaled
US$1,519 million, of which US$579 million remained to be disbursed, leaving
a net amount outstanding-of US$940 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly.  In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively; in 1978/79. On Ma.rch 31, 1979, India'.s outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion, or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion).  Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.  In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE CASHEW INDUSTRY
General
26.       The cashew industry is of considerable importance to the Indian
economy as a source of foreign exchange, employment and farmers' income.
Cashew trees were introduced from Brazil by the Portuguese in the 16th century
to prevent soil erosion and are now grown, mostly by smallholders, on about
400,000 ha in India. The value of India's cashew exports has averaged US$100
million per year over the last five years and the crop has ranked third or
fourth in value among agricultural exports during the past two decades. The
processing industry in Kerala above employs about 150,000 laborers, mostly
women (see paragraph 31).
Cashew Production
27.       Cashew trees are hardy and tolerate most conditions except frost
and impeded drainage. In India, they grow largely in coastal areas, from
Maharashtra on the west coast to West Bengal on the east coast. It is a



- 10 -
minor crop except in Kerala, whicli accounts for at least half of India's
production. Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa are among other cashew-
producing States. There are a few, plantations, mostly owned by State Gov-
ernment departments, but most cashiic's are grown by smallholders in small
clumps, in hedgerows or as backya:i.. trees. Assessment of cashew areas and
yields are, therefore, difficult aud estimates are subject to wide margins
of error.  Commercial and GovernmeuL sources estimate India's domestic con-
sumption at about 40,000 tons and total raw nut production at about 140,000
tons annually. India is one of the three largest raw nut producers; the
other two are Mozambique and Tanzania.
28.       Depending on growing conditions and the care given to the plants,
cashew trees start bearing fruit in three to six years and reach full produc-
tion in ten to twenty years. Trees flower in November/December and nuts are
harvested between March and May. Each nut forms at the end of a swollen fruit
stalk, the apple, which drops to the ground on maturity. The nuts are detached
from apples and are then sun-dried in cement yards for two to three days. At
this stage, nuts are known as raw nuts and consist of kernels (25-30%), testa,
a thin brown skin covering each k,ernel (2%), shell. (40-50%), and cashewnut
shell liquid (20-25%) contained in the honeycomb structure of the shell.
Cashew products which are traded include cashew kernels, mainly consumed as
roasted and salted nuts (97% of total traded value) and cashewnut shell
liquid, a phenol used mainly in the manufacture of friction materials (3% of
traded value). Cashew apples and testa are other by-products. Cashew apples
are used as fresh fruits in some areas and to make wine in others. A pilot
scheme is being implemented under the Kerala Agricultural Development Project
(Credit 680-IN) to explore other possible uses. Testa contains tannin and
there is an extracting plant in Kerala.
Raw Nut Procurement
29.       Until 1970, each processor procured his own raw nut supply, both
local and imported. In that year, GOI established the Cashew Corporation of
India (CCI) as the sole importer of raw nuts. CCI distributes the imported
nuts to processors in accordance with their export performance. Until 1976,
local nuts were procured by processors through a series of middlemen. Raw
nut prices were set by processors, based on forward New York kernel prices,
and rose steeply from about Rs 2.50 per kg in 1975 to Rs 6 per kg in 1978.
This type of marketing continues in all States except Kerala. In Kerala,
the Government became concerned by the large outflow of nuts to neighboring
States where wage rates, and therefore processing costs, are lower. Conse-
quently, in 1976 Kerala established monopoly procurement through the Kerala
State Cooperative Marketing Federation, which distributes the nuts to pro-
cessors according to previous export performance. The prices in Kerala were
fixed relatively high in 1978, which benefitted growers and caused losses to
processors. But in 1979 prices were lowered again (by about 25%) causing
considerable amounts of nuts to bypass the State purchasing organization
to neighboring States. Future procurement policy in Kerala remains uncertain
at this time, and a proposed cashew study (see paragraph 51) would examine
most suitable raw nut procurement policies.



- 11 -
Processing
30.       India pioneered cashewnut processing (extraction of kernels and
cashewnut shell liquid from raw nuts) and, up to the mid-1960s, accounted for
90-95% of the world kernel trade. With only about 25-30% of raw nut pro-
duction, Indian processors imported 70-80% of their raw nut requirements from
East Africa. During the 1960s, East Africans began to develop their own
processing facilities and have been supported by two Bank Group projects (Loan
06         No. 1014-TA and Credit No. 801-TA).  Partly because of the growth of process-
ing abroad and partly because of raw nut procurement problems that have
occurred in East Africa, nut imports into India fell from an average 160,000
tons per year over the decade 1965-75 to only 20,000 tons in 1978.  Indian raw
nut production has not increased sufficiently to compensate for loss of
imports. Consequently, 1978 kernel exports were less than 30,000 tons.
Compared to average exports of 55,000 tons of kernels over the 1965-75 period,
this represents a loss of almost US$100 million in export revenue and about 10
million labor-days of employment in the processing industry.
31.       In India, all cashew processing operations are manual.  The pro-
cessing results are good and out-turn of high value; whole nuts average 80%
of output compared to 40-60% in the case of mechanized processing abroad.
Kerala's cashew processing industry is the most efficient in India, and
accounts for 80-90% of India's production and export. But the cost of pro-
duction is somewhat higher in Kerala due to the State's minimum-wage laws.
There are about 260 factories in Kerala, employing 150,000 people and having
450,000 tons of raw nut processing capacity. Although these factories were
established in the private sector, Kerala created the Kerala State Cashew
Development Corporation in 1969, and has since taken over 34 "sick" factories
employing 34,000 people, thus becoming the largest cashew processor in India.
Factories outside Kerala are scattered throughout raw nut producing areas.
The factories in India presently run considerably below capacity mainly due
to reduced imports of raw nuts from abroad and inadequate domestic supplies.
Government Policy
32.       GOI and the State Governments are determined to restore cashew
kernel exports at least to the level of about 55,000 tons per year which
prevailed in 1965-75.  While the initial Government support was confined to
research and credit programs to expand cashew areas, GOI established, in 1966,
the Cashew Council and Cashew Directorate to prepare plans to help other
aspects of the cashew industry as well.  The first programs were limited to
some research and demonstration of improved practices, particularly pest
control. More recent programs have included the provision of Rs 200 million
in equity for establishing State-owned cashew plantation corporations and
Rs 600 million to provide a subsidy of Rs 300/ha for cashews planting by
smallholders and Rs 500/ha for planting by corporations. The subsidy pro-
gram has succeeded in promoting the planting of cashew trees, particularly
in Kerala where planting of 35,000 ha by smallholders over the last three
years has been reported. The steep rise of nut price has also provided an
incentive to the farmers to plant cashews. However, the subsidy program by
itself does not lead to adoption of improved cultivation practices, which
would require a Rs 2,800-3,600/ha investment. GOI and the cashew growing



- 12 -
States have, therefore, recognized that tb subsidy program needs to
be combined with improved technology.
Cashew Research and Status of Technology
33.       Until recently, in India and elsewhere, cashews had been treated
more or less as wild trees. There was little research on which to base cul-
tural recommendations and the only cultural treatment was slashing of weeds
to facilitate harvest. In 1951, the Indian Council for Agricultural Research
(ICAR) initiated cashew research iwhich now forms part of the All-India
Coordinated Spices and Cashew Improvement Project, which also undertakes
research on seven other commoditiies. Cashew research is carried out at two
sub-stations of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) and
at five other sub-stations operat(ed by universities in different States.
Because of the increasing importance of the crop, ICAR is planning to inten-
sify cashew research efforts and to elevate cashew research to a separate
project.
34.       The main emphasis of research has been on identification of high
yielding plant types, pest controL, fertilizer use and vegetative propaga-
tion. Some work has also been done on cashew breeding and introduction of
germ plasm from abroad. As a result, there is now a package of practices
including fertilizer application, control of major pests and use of seed from
selected mother trees. The package, in conjunction with reasonable care of
plantations by way of careful planting, roil conservation and weed control,
should increase yields from two- l:o four-fold. There is also evidence that
the package would double yields of. young and reasonably well-cared-for exist-
ing plantations. More research is needed on plant spacing, vegetative pro-
pagation methods suitable for large-scale field use, identifying suitable
clonal material for vegetative propagation, fertilizer recommendations for
different soil types, and, in the longer run, on breeding of high-kernel-
content nuts.
Institutional Framework
35.       Cashew crop development is the responsibility of Central and State
Ministries of Agriculture, while processing and trading is handled by Com-
merce and Industries Ministries. Agencies that deal with cashew production
include Central and State Agricultural Departments for crop development and
ICAR and universities for research. Agencies which serve the cashew industry
at the Central Government level irnclude: the Indian Cashew Development Council
which was established under the GC)I Ministry of Agriculture to advise GOI on
cashew policy and review proposals; for cashew development programs to be
financed by GOI; the Directorate of Cashew Development which provides the
Council's Secretariat and linkage between cashew States and cashew institu-
tions; the Cashew Corporation of India which was established under the GOI
Ministry of Commerce as a subsidiary of the State Trading Corporation, to
import raw cashews; and the Cashew Export Promotion Council which also oper-
ates under the GOI Ministry of Commerce and attends trade fairs, collects
and disseminates trade statistics, publishes a quarterly journal and mediates
in case of complaints by overseas customers.



- 13 -
36.       At the State level, there are corporations established to undertake
large-scale plantations based on improved technology and practices. In Kerala,
the Plantation Corporation of Kerala was established in 1972; it is well man-
aged and financially sound. The Karnataka Cashew Development Corporation,
established in 1978, is an offshoot of the Forest Development Corporation.
It has undertaken only a small program to date. In Andhra Pradesh, the Cashew
Development Division of the Forest Development Corporation, established in
1975, has started a 10,000-ha cashew development program. In Orissa, a cashew
development program was established in January 1979. In addition, there is a
cashew marketing organization and a cashew processing organization in Kerala
(see paragraphs 29 and 31).
The Project States
37.       The proposed project would be implemented in 22 Districts of four
States - Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa. The States vary in
size, with Andhra Pradesh (276,814 sq. km.) ranking fifth in India while
Kerala (38,864 sq. km.) is one of the smallest States. Agriculture dominates
the economies of the four States, accounting for 50% to 66% of total income
and about 50% to 85% of employment. Foodgrains constitute the most important
crop in all States, occupying from 76% of the sown area in Andhra Pradesh to
30% in Kerala.  Farms are mostly owner-operated and are small in all four
States. Most holdings are less than 0.5 ha.
38.       The supply of fertilizer and pesticide inputs is satisfactory in
all project Districts; their distribution is handled by village primary coop-
erative societies as well as private distributors.  Storage facilities of main
distributors are also satisfactory. Because cashew is a minor crop in most
areas, comparatively little attention has so far. been devoted to it by exten-
sion services, except in Kerala project districts; In Orissa and Karnataka,
extension services are provided under the IDA-assisted extension projects
using the Training and Visit System (Credit 682-IN and.Credit 826-IN, respec-
tively). A similar extension project in Kerala is being presented to the
Executive Directors later this year. Andhra Pradesh has also shown interest
in reorganizing its extension system along this line, but it is unlikely to
start early enough to benefit this project. Until then, Agriculture Depart-
ments in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh would continue to provide smallholder cashew
extension services in these two States along lines agreed with IDA.
39.     . Institutional credit is provided by cooperatives (short- and medium-
term), land development banks (long-term) and rural banks and commercial banks
(for all types). All of them are involved in IDA-supported lending through
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) lines of credit.
The strengths and weaknesses of these institutions vary from State to State.
The land development bank is particularly strong in.Andhra Pradesh, reasonably
so in Kerala and Orissa, but suffers from poor loan recovery in Karnataka.
The Government of Karnataka is taking measures to improve the recovery. There
were 11 ARDC-refinanced cashew schemes under implementation in India at pro-
ject appraisal, covering about 12,000 ha, for which Rs 35 million in loan fin-
ance had been approved. These schemes are partly financed by the Second ARDC
Project (Credit 715-IN) and will continue to be supported by the Third ARDC



- 14 -
project (Credit 947-IN). Some of the schemes are new, but for those under
implementation for some time, farmers' response has been disappointing.
On September 30, 1978, only Rs 1.2 million had been disbursed by banks out
of the Rs 13.9 million target. Reasons for slow progress are: insufficient
promotion of the new (and to farmers unfamiliar) type of lending; inadequate
inducement by way of subsidies for farmers to undertake this type of long
term investment; insufficient extension service support; long distance of many
farmers from long term credit agencies; and burdensome loan application pro-
cedures.
Similar Bank Group Operations in India
40.       This would be the fourth Bank Group project in India dealing with
tree crops. Two of the ongoing projects, the Himachal Pradesh Apple Proces-
sing and Marketing Project (Credit 456-IN) and the Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture
Project (Credit 806-IN), deal with processing and marketing. Credit 456-IN
suffered prolonged initial delays, but it is now expected to be completed by
the present Closing Date of December 1980. Credit 806-IN is progressing well.
The Kerala Agricultural Development Project (Credit 680-IN of April 1977) is
a tree crop production project, similar to the proposed cashew project. Its
objectives are mainly to increase coconut and pepper production, but it also
includes about 2,300 ha of cashew rehabilitation and about 1,700 ha of new
planting, all in one District, by the Plantation Corporation of Kerala.
The project had start-up delays, but the cashew component is now close to
the original implementation plan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was prepared by the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa with assistance from the GOI Ministry of Agriculture
and from staff of the World Bank New Delhi Office. The project appraisal
was concluded in October 1979, and negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. in March 1980. The Indian negotiators included representatives of the
four participating States, the GOI Ministry of Agriculture, the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation, and was coordinated by Mr. S.G. Jain,
Director, Department of Economic Affairs, GOI. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 2437-IN) is being distributed separately. A Supplementary Project Data
Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
42.       The proposed project wouLd finance, over five years, a cashew pro-
duction program in Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa, together
with necessary supporting facilities and services. The project area would
include four Districts of northern Kerala, one adjoining District in Karnataka,
ten Districts in eastern Andhra Pradesh and seven Districts in eastern Orissa.
The production program would be financed mainly by institutional credit chan-
nelled through the Agricultural Rei-inance and Development Corporation (ARDC),
while other components would be financed directly through State Governments
and GOI. The project components would include the following:



- 15 -
(a)  Cashew planting and improvement on about 61,000 ha, of
which about 35,000 ha would be developed by private
farmers and about 26,000 by State Corporations;
(b)  Strengthening of State cashew development units and
supporting services for the smallholder farmer program;
(c)  Strengthening of State Corporations;
(d)  Strengthening of cashew research;
(e)  Implementation of a 500 ha pilot scheme for cashew planting
on coastal dune land in Orissa;
(f)  Improvement of about 200 km of feeder roads in Kerala's
cashew areas; and
(g)  Implementation of a study to improve the institutional struc-
ture of the cashew industry in India.
43.       New cashew planting would be undertaken on about 53,775 ha in the
four project States, about 30,500 ha by smallholder farmers and about 23,275
ha by State Corporations. The project would finance credit for the purchase
of planting materials, fertilizer, and pesticides, and the cost of labor
needed for land preparation, soil conservation, planting and maintenance of
plants. Most plantings would be with seedlings derived from selected mother
trees, mostly situated in progeny orchards, except in Orissa where there has
been some success in vegetative propagation. There, about half the planted
area would be carried out by side grafting from selected clonal material.
In other project States, vegetative propagation efforts have recently started
and, with the proposed stepping up of research activities, chances are good
for this method of planting to be more widely used.
44.       Existing planting would be improved on about 7,500 ha--3,000 ha by
State Corporations in Karnataka and Orissa and 4,500 ha by smallholders in
Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. The improvement program would involve invest-
ments similar to those for new planting, except that new plants would be
needed only for filling gaps in existing plantations. The plantations to be
improved would be carefully selected to avoid fields that would not respond
adequately to treatment. ARDC would, in consultation with the Project States,
establish criteria for selecting cashew plantations for improvement in the
project area (Section 2.08 of the ARDC Agreement).
45.       Smallholder production would be promoted in all four States by
providing a combination of intensive promotion, skilled advisory and support
services, and adequate incentives. Special cashew development units would be
established to perform tasks beyond the usual scope of-extension services,
including identification of project participants, selection of suitable land,
laying out of orchards and providing cashew nursery services, and assisting
farmers with receipt and use of institutional credit and Government subsidies
(para 46). The project would finance staff and operating costs, vehicles and
equipment. It would also provide for training.



- 16 -
46.       Despite attractive financial returns from tree crops, subsidies
are often necessary to ensure widespread smallholder participation in such
projects, as an inducement to ccmpensate for the slow maturity of the invest-
ment. The farmers in the project area would, therefore, receive financial
subsidies in three annual installments, in addition to the combination of
intensive promotion, and skilled advisory and support services discussed
above. For new planting, each project State would provide the subsidies to
cover 25% of the cost of plantation, up to a ceiling of Rs 900. (Section 2.05
of the Project Agreement). For cashew improvements, both Kar-nataka and Andhra
Pradesh, the two States where the improvement activities are to be implemented,
already have subsidy program to cover 25% of the costs.
47.       The Corporation planting program would be implemented on two or
three blocks of at least 200 ha of land situated within a radius of 15 km.
The project would finance incremental costs of staff, necessary infrastructure,
vehicles and equipment, and incremental operating and maintenance costs. At
least fifty percent of the land to be developed by the Corporations has
already been acquired, the remaining land is also expected to be transferred
without causing any delay in implementation.
48.       Cashew research under the project would emphasize the development
of vegetative propogation methods and identification of suitable clonal
material for widespread use, as well as staff training. The project would
strengthen cashew research by improving and expanding the Central Cashew
Research Station and three regional sub-stations in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and
Orissa, and by establishing one regional sub-station in Karnataka. Financing
would be provided for incremental staff and other incremental recurrent
costs; the construction of laboratories, staff housing, training facilities
and farm sheds; purchase of vehicles, laboratory and field equipment; and
staff training programs. Details of the research program would be submitted
to IDA by September 30, 1980 (Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement).
49.       The Orissa pilot scheme would be implemented on a 1 km strip of
shifting sand dune land which runs at least 150 km along the Orissa coast--
an area of 15,000 ha. At present, the land is useless and dunes encroach
on adjoining farm lands. Trials conducted by the Orissa Soil Conservation
Service show that cashews, once established, stabilize the land and thrive on
it. Further work is needed to identify the best method of cashew establish-
ment. The project would finance a 500 ha pilot scheme to be executed by the
Soil Conservation Service, by providing funds for planting and maintaining
cashews and windbreaks during the project period. Several methods of estab-
lishing cashews would be tried, to find ways of converting these presently
useless dune areas into commercially viable cashew plantations. The Government
of Orissa would prepare and make available to the Association, by December 31,
1980, plans for implementing the dune reclamation pilot scheme (Section 3.05
of the Project Agreement).
50.       The road petwork is satisfactory in most of the project areas except
in parts of the State of Kerala, which accounts for more than half of India's
cashew production. The proposed project would finance the improvement of
about 200 km of roads in smallholder cashew areas. The roads proposed to be



- 17 -
improved were selected jointly by the Government of Kerala and World Bank
staff. Kerala would furnish to the Association its annual road improvement
program under the project by June 30 of each year (Section 3.06 of the Project
Agreement).
51.       In India, there are numerous institutions dealing with cashews (see
paragraphs 35 and 36), whereas for other major commodities a single organiza-
tion, like the Tea Board or the Rubber Board, handles all aspet-ts of the
commodity including research and extension. The proposed project would
finance a cashew industry study to examine the need for possible institu-
tional reorganization of the industry, with particular emphasis on improving
the efficiency and competitiveness of the industry, inter-State coordination
of both production and processing, specific needs of smallholder plantations
and cashew trade promotion. The study would be supervised by the GOI Ministry
of Agriculture and would be conducted by suitably qualified local consultants
including universities or other institutions. Terms and conditions of the
study have been discussed and concurred with IDA. The cashew study would
commence by September 30, 1980 (Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment).
Project Implementation and Coordination
52.       Implementation of the smallholder cashew plantation and improvement
program would be carried out by cashew development units (see paragraph 45)
to be established under the State Agriculture Departments in Kerala and
Andhra Pradesh, under the Horticultural Department in Karnataka and under the
Soil Conservation Department in Orissa. An Officer of Additional or Joint
Director rank would head the cashew unit in each State. The Corporation
plantation and improvements would be carried out by Corporations which are
already established (paragraph 36). Staffing of the corporations is adequate
except that the Karnataka Cashew Development Corporation needs a qualified
finance officer with adequate experience for instituting a management account-
ing and reporting system. Karnataka would appoint such officer by December
31, 1980 (Section 3.07 of the Project Agreement).
53.       GOI would onlend the major portion of the proposed credit (US$13.7
million) to the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC),
under financial arrangements under terms and conditions agreed between GOI and
IDA. ARDC would refinance commercial banks' or land development banks' lend-
ing to smallholders and Corporations for plantation development. To ensure
adequate and suitable banking arrangements, ARDC would prepare a banking plan
for each State in consultation with the Governments and banks in the partic-
ipating States. A draft banking plan has been discussed and concurred with
IDA. Execution of financial arrangements between GOI and ARDC would be a
condition of disbursement against the credit component (paragraph 4(b) of
Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement).
54.       Many agencies would be involved in the project implementation, inc-
luding the GOI Ministries of Agriculture and Commerce, ARDC, the Indian Council



- 18 -
of Agricultural Research, the Cashew Council, the Cashew Directorate, agencies
of the four State Governments and the lending banks. GOI would establish
a Coordination Committee to coordinate their activities. The Committee would
also deal with the problems that cannot be solved at the State level, and
would monitor the project activities. GOI has appointed a senior officer,
responsible to the Secretary of Agriculture, to act as the project officer and
the Secretary to this Committee. GOI would establish the Coordination Com-
mittee in its Ministry of Agriculture by September 30, 1980 (Section 3.06 of
the Development Credit Agreement).
55.       In each State a coordination Committee would be established under
the State's Agriculture Production Commissioner or a senior Secretary and a
senior project officer would be appointed to be responsible for project
management including project monitoring and evaluation. Each State would
establish a coordination committee with terms and conditions mutually agreed
between the Association and the Project States, and appoint a project officer
by September 30,1980 (Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement).
Market and Price Prospects
56.       Based on population, income levels and income elasticity, a World
Bank study forecasts steady growth of world consumption, with demand reaching
about 200,000 tons of kernels by 1990 (Commodity Note No. 5 - Cashew Nuts:
Review and Outlook, June 1978). The projection, equal to 870,000 tons of raw
nuts, is close to the world procluction forecasts. Kernel prices, quoted by
grade 320 (number of whole kernels per pound) CIF New York, quadrupled between
1958 and 1978 in current terms, from about US$1,000 to US$4,100, and about
doubled in constant terms. Prices for the expected production level are
forecast at US$4,360 per ton (CIF New York) in 1985 and US$4,817 per ton in
1990, expressed in 1979 constant terms.
57.       The proposed project would result in an additional production of
about 5,000 tons of nuts at the end of 1984, when the production would just
have started, increasing to 53,000 tons at maturity in 1994. Smallholder
production would account for about 60% of production. Since 85% of Indian
production is exported, world market price would determine local nut prices.
Indian prices depend on mix, since broken nuts bring 50% to 70% of whole nut
prices. The mix of nuts varies between States. Projected FOB prices for
Kerala kernels would be US$3,890 and US$4,323 per ton in 1985 and 1990,
respectively, and then for Andhra Pradesh US$3,595 and US$3,995 per ton during
the same years, with all prices expressed in 1979 constant terms.
Project Cost and Financing
58.       The total project cost is estimated at US$45.7 million equivalent,
including taxes and and duties of US$1.8 million, of which US$3.3 million,
or 7% is foreign exchange. Included in this cost is US$11.3 million for
smallholder cashew planting and improvement, US$3.2 million for the cashew
units in the States, US$17.4 million for State Corporation planting, improve-
ment and operating costs, US$1.2 million for research, training and study,
US$0.2 million for the Orissa's pilot scheme for plantation in coastal dune
land, US$2 million for feeder roads in Kerala, and US$10.4 million for con-
tingencies.



- 19 -
59.       The proposed IDA credit of US$22 million equivalent would finance
about 50% of the project cost, excluding taxes and duties. The balance
would be met by GOI and the States (28%), ARDC (18%), lending banks (5%) and
smallholders (1%). The project would provide retroactive financing of up to
US$200,000 for expenditures after December 1, 1979 to cover costs of early
plantation activities and for the State cashew units.
60.       GOI would onlend US$13.7 million of the IDA credit to ARDC, to
refinance cashew planting and improvement loans to farmers and corporations
at 6% per annum for lending to farmers for up to 9 years and at 6.5% interest
per annum for up to 15 years. GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk. Of
the balance, GOI would use about US$1.3 million for the cashew industry study
and research activities and pass the remaining US$7.0 million on to the
participating States to meet costs of cashew units, training, the Orissa pilot
scheme and Kerala feeder roads. Funds to the States would be channeled as part
of Central assistance to the States for development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time.
61.       GOI's onlending rate to ARDC and the interest rates to be applied
through the ultimate borrowers (see details of the rates in Project and Credit
Summary) are consistent with the prevailing overall rate structure in India.
These rates are the same as those used in the recent Third ARDC Project
(Credit 947-IN, of August 20, 1979). Intersectoral rate differentials are
small. Inflation in India between 1975/76 and 1978/79 has averaged 2.1%
annually. Inflation in India between 1974/75 and 1978/79 averaged only 1.5%
per annum. With the sharp increase in oil prices during 1979 coinciding with
a severe drought, prices spurted by almost 15% between April and December 1979
and are anticipated to increase another 10% during 1980/81. Given past GOI
determination and success in containing inflation, and the likelihood of a
strong agricultural recovery and improved supply of industrial inputs, the
rate of price increase over the project period is expected to average somewhat
below 7% per annum. The proposed on-lending rates to farmers would be posi-
tive in real terms throughout the project period and would compare favorably
with real rates in other developing countries.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       Civil works to be implemented under the Corporations component
(US$4.3 million) would be carried out over scattered sites in four States
and be phased over four years. Contracts for such work would not attract
foreign bidders, and would be awarded after local competitive bidding, using
procedures of each State Government, which are satisfactory to IDA. Feeder
roads in Kerala (US$2.0 million), would be constructed by force account under
procedures developed by GOI for its large rural road construction program
which are also satisfactory to IDA. Similarly, civil works under the
research component (US$0.3 million) and any minor civil works arising from
the Orissa pilot scheme would be scattered over a large area and would be
implemented departmentally phased over the project period under GOI and the
State's procedures which are satisfatory to the Association.
63.       About 30 motor vehicles (US$0.9 million) of various types would be
required by project units and corporations. They would be purchased in small
quantities over four years and would be widely spread in rural areas. Adequate



- 20 -
maintenance and availability oiE spare parts would be of paramount impor-
tance, and this would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types
already used by Corporations and government departments. Thus, procurement
would be by local competitive bidding under existing government procedures.
Motorcyles and bicycles (US$0.08 million) would be purchased by individual
staff from loan funds provided by State Governments.
64.       Farmers drawing cashew planting or improvement loans (US$11.3 mil-
lion) would purchase fertilizer and pesticides from local suppliers of their
choice. About 50% of the loan would be for labor and not subject to procure-
ment procedures. The Corporations' planting and improvement programs (US$8.2
million) and the Orissa pilot scheme (US$0.2 million) include purchase of
fertilizer (US$3 million) and pesticides (US$1 million) over the five-year
project period. The balance cconsists of a small amount of consumable items
which would be procured by locaLl bidding procedures, and of labor. The
Corporations and the States would procure fertilizer locally, under State
Government procedures, which are satisfactory. Pesticide would be procured
at short notice by local bidding procedures if time allows, or by prudent
shopping in case of sudden pest outbreaks. Equipment for the four Corpora-
tions and four State Government departments (US$0.6 million) and for research
(USO.1 million) would consist of numerous small items including office and
laboratory equipment, furniture and farm tools and would be procured by local
competitive bidding.  The balance of the project cost (US$7.3 million) would
cover operating costs and salaries of Corporations, cashew units and research
staff, and training and study-costs which would not involve procurement. All
the above figures exclude contingencies which amount to US$10.4 million.
65.       IDA would disburse 5.5% of loans to smallholders and corporations;
90% of civil works costs for Kerala roads, for staff, vehicles, equipment and
operating costs for smallholder cashew support units and the training costs;
90% of plantation expenses of the Orissa pilot scheme; and 100% of the cost of
cashew industry study. Disbursements for all ARDC refinancing and for other
expenditures would be made against certificates of expenditures, except
expenditures exceeding Rs 150,000 for vehicles, equipment, staff salaries and
incremental operating costs and exceeding Rs 300,000 for civil works, for
which disbursements would be made against full documentation. Supporting
documents for which payments are made against certificates, would be retained
by the implementing agency for review by IDA missions and these documents
would be audited at least every six months.
Project Benefits and Risks
66.       The project would contribute substantially towards GOIt's goals of
restoring Indian cashew exports to at least the level which prevailed in
1965-75.  At full development in 1994, the project would result in an addi-
tional annual production of about 53,000 tons of raw nuts with an economic
value of US$51 million (in 1979 terms). The income of about 40,000 small-
holders, the majority of whom are subsistence farmers, would be increased.
The project would generate annually about 15,000 labor-years of employment
on the farm and about 35,000 labor-years in the processing industry. The
benefits would also be felt outside the project area because of the proposed
research activities and the cashew industry study. The economic rates of



- 21 -
return are estimated to be 31% on the smallholder component, 24% on the State
Corporations component, and 25% on the overall project.
67.       The most significant risk inherent in the project lies in the com-
plexity of the project itself, which involves thousands of smallholder farmers,
four State Governments, Corporations, several GOI agencies and a number of
other institutions for banking, research and training. Development programs
with relatively long gestation periods and smallholders farmers entail risk
of inadequate response. Measures to provide necessary services and financial
inducements, which should minimize the risks of inadequate participation of
the smallholders, are included in the project. Similarly, measures to coor-
dinate, monitor and expedite all phases of implementation have been incorpo-
rated in the project to minimize risks of delays and inadequate coordination
in agencies involved with the project implementation. The risks are no
greater than can normally be expected with projects of this type, and are
acceptable in view of the benefits which would accrue to a large number
of small farmers, laborers and to the economy as a whole.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the States
of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Orissa, the draft ARDC Agreement
between the Association and ARDC and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Direcotrs separately.
69.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
70.       The additional condition of disbursement, specified in paragraph
4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, would be that no
withdrawals shall be made against credit component until GOI and ARDC have
made a financial arrangement under terms and conditions mutually agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
Ernest Stern
April 10, 1980



ANNEX I
INDTA - SOC t IN3ICATORS DATA SNEET                    Page  1  of  5
ATRZ7ERmICZ GROUPS (ADJUSTED ATAGES
LS3  REA (TP,03SAN SQ.                      nMMA )D                       -OST REC£NT EST7TE) -
TOTAL           32876                                                  SUER       SA6ME    Nt MT   CI
AGUCULT1311AL   lSlB.3                            'MST  ECT         GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       IZC00U
1960 lb    1970                      E ESTG7E A  RGION Le  GROUP d   GROUP a
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1                 60.0        90.0    180.0            191.1     209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    142.0       181.0    218.0            69.1       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MI-YTEAR MlLIONS)   434.9         547.6     631.7a
URBAN POPULAIION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9       19.7      20.7            13.2       16.2       24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 MLLIONS)                      973.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     1643.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REA&ED                 2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER  SQ. DES.                   132.0       167.0    192.0            86.6       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0      308.0    347.0           330.2      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                        40.8        42.5      42.0           44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                        55.7        54.6     55.0            52.4       53.2        51.9
65 YIS. AND ABOVE                  3.5         2.9       3.0            3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.9         2.3       2.1             2.4       2.4         2.7
URBAN                             2.5/A       3.3       3.1            4.1        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRIR RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.0        40.0      35.0           44.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATR RATE (PER TEOUSAND)    21.0        17.0      14.0            16.4      15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2         2.9       2.4            3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0      3782.0   4518.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOHZN)   ..        12.0      16.9            7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
13D0X OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.0       102.0    101.0            99.4       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENS)                   95.0        92.0      89.0           93.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         51.0        53.0     48.0            56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WiIICE ANIMAL AND PULSE     19.0        16.0      12.6            10.4      13.6        17.4
CRI3D (AGES 1-41 MORTAITT RATE    28.0        22.0      18.0           19.2       18.5        11.4
YFALTY
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TYARS)   43.0        48.0     51.0            49.1       49.3        54.7
INFANT NORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            *-       134.0       ..              ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        17.0      33.0           31.5       26.3        34.4
URBAN                              ..        60.0      83.0           63.9       58.5        57.9
RIIRAL                             ..         6.0      20.0           20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        18.0      20.0           15.7       16.0        40.8
CRBAN                              ..        85.0     87.0            66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                              ..         1.0      2.0             2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULAIION PER PHYSICIAN         5800.Oh    4890.0   3135.0           7107.9   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    963O.0&h    5220.0   6320.0         12064.0    5552.4       1522.1
POPULAIZON PER 'iOSPITAL EED
TOTAL                          2590.0/1   2020.0   1231.0           2738.4    1417.1        726.5
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER EOSPITAL BED          ..         ..        ..              ..       24.8        27.5
EOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.2         ..       5.2              ..        5.3         5.4
URBAN                             5.2         ..       4.8              ..        4.9         5. 1
RL'RAL                            5.2         ..       5.3              ..        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NLISER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                             2.6         2.3       ..
URBAN                                                      ..              ..
RLRAL                              ..         ..        ..
ACCESS TO _LECTRICITY (PERCENT
8F ONSL-NGS 
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..      '22.5        2.1
C3AN                               ..         ..        ..             ..        17.8       4$5.1
RLUAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..         ..         9.9



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
IIfDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DiDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAKE     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GOCRAPlRIC    IMCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIlATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                61.0         72.0      79.0            59.5        63.3        82.7
HALE'                80.0        87.0       94.0            74.9       79.1         87.3
FthAZ                40.0        55.0       63 0            43.7       48.4         75.8
SEcoNDARY:   TOTAL                20.0        29.0       28.0            19.5        16.7        21.4
MA<L                 30.0        39.0       38.0            27.8       22.1         33.0
FmuL!                10.0        17.0       18.0            10.0       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OZ SECONDABY)  8.0           6.OLI      ..             1.3         5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMUY                            29.0        40.0       42.0            42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                         16.0         17.0        ..              ..       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28.0         33.0      36.0            25.5        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7          1.0       1.2             2.3        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        21.0       24.0            15.5       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.1        0.5              ..        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0         16.0      16.0             6.2        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0          6.3       3.8              ..         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)  188670.0    226870.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.3        32.6       32.2            21.4       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             73.0         73.0      73.0            66.3       69.4         62.7
tNDUSTRY (PERCENT)                l1.0        11.0       11.0             9.6       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               43.0         40.2      39.2            35.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                57.1         52.3      51.3            52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              27.9         27.1      26.2            15.7        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1       1.1             1.3         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOtE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/1       ..              ..         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7        48.97        ..              ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF RDUSEROLDS    4.1         6.77        ..              ..         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENr Of HOUSEHOLDS   13.6         17.27       ..              ..         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       83.0            86.5       99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..       73.0            74.2       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               ..       91.9        179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..       50.0            50.4       54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       47.0            44.3       44.1         24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       52.0            52.4       53.9        37.5
Not available
.Yoc applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
c    Souch Asia;  /d  Low Income (S280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita,
1976);  !f  1978 mid-vear population is estimated at 6440. million;   Li  195160;   Ih  1962;
1959;  / j  1967;  /k  1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 million;   /1  1964-65.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



ANNEX I
Dfl1fITI     PP BOCAL ThICATORH                                                                      Page   3   of   5
Nlots   Ahu h th  data are Arswn from  sources genera.lly judged the mast authoritative sod reliable, it ehoold also be noted that they an  sot be interns-
tionsil t cop    .bebcueof the leek of stadardboed definitions end concepts used by different eoootrlsin co llectiog the data. The data ar, nonthelese,
useful to de..crihe orders of eagottude, indeate trends, end oh-waterine certain Xajor differences beto.e.ocutis
The  dise   ropaeae  for each indicator ar  popuiaton-eighoted gosetrio aemu., roolodlg the erne- value  of the lodiossor acd the  -ot populated
counry  I  eah grup. the  tolak of data, gentp a-erget of al  idadlotor  far Capitol Sorploo Oil hsprtcro and of ioddoator  of Ac-ras to Water and Ecrts
Dispy..al, Houslon,, Inco.e Dintributioo  and Poverty for other ocotry grups  -r  popolatlon-seighted geonsteic neeno  ithoot ecoloeion of the e-te-   vluec end
the mast popnlate  dcountry.  nine the coverge of ocutrisasmo  the indIators deeos  n  vilabillty of data end to oct -oII.r.  -toIn  ooa be eorcioed
in reationaverges o  one  ndictor t  sooter.   hese  veraes ar    stIrusefl, asapproinatooe oi't oeotad odor nehe .compringtho eluvo- f on
indcaor  t    tie   mo  the country end referenc  goUp.
EANl ARTh (thoued ut.hk.)                                                                    Aoenoto Elocreta Dliopoo   (preto   ouato)-ttl   ohn   n   ua 
Ttl-otal mafac  are -    c-rioing lend are  end ilend eater.                              Ibro   _peopl  (totl, urban, end rural  servo  byeot *dio al-s
Agricultural -  PSet recet -ntinte of sgioolt-orl .re u.e.d t-mp-sllp                        peroetge- of their repectio- pnp,ilstion. Ccrta duspo...Iasp include
or perocetly for cropo, p-ature, raket cod kitchen gardens or to                           the colcined disposal, cth or  dithoot trea.t-net, of bunce-                 rr
lIe flce.                                                                                 and  -ate--at-r by cater-boyc  syot-  or the no  of pit privieend   -oolla
GNP PER CAPITA (Ui$) - GPOP pe  caPita ontinato  atc          net na t price-                PptolatioprPyiin-   Popointioc diohidd by ouste  of pr-oioteg phyotisi-
calculated by can  conerion nettd as World  SPank Atlas (1976-78 banish                      quaifidpfr-n a ndica.l achel at en-o-ity 1e..1
1960, 1970,-ed 1978 data.                                                                  PopuI-laicoer  tior g P.r..o .Ppulatioo diviced by ouser of pructiviog ml
ENERGY CINSP54PIONI PIR CAPITA - Annual o-neptia of c oeri.1 enemy                             end frool  gradunte n-se, practical o-os, end  -ciotnt caee.
(ca _nd g ito,petrleo, ostural ga  end hydr--, enear end ge-                        Popuintioce pdoHspital pod - total, -bo, end rural - Popootien (total, urIn,
thero   eierot) to tilgrn   of coal equivlent Per capita; 1960,end ruro) divided by their  -epe-tiv  center ofihoopotnl bedo  -vilnhle en
1971, cod 1976 into.                                                                         pbli  end private georro  end cpeoaic_d b.stpital end rohobi~litticd centers
Hoptals ar  e-tbliohaeato  pernn-ty oWtaff    by ot loct cc   hyucic
PIHUIATION AND0 VITAL STATISITCS                                                               totaliobt.vt  proiding pricetpoly cectedu  onre arnt i.nclded   ur_i
795t   4icP.   U           r(ilin)-Au of Soil' 1; 1960, 1970, end                            h_opitals, h--ce, isobAr henitbedh            eis   ettrnopencticafd
1977 das,-                                                                                 by o phyolohen  (but by . -rdi-Il -nistet,  _eos. odIfe, etc.)  htich offer
Peteb Poutli          - (pecet of total) - coie of ere  to iciol popu,Iatici;                i-pati-ot oc-sndatico cod proide a hlted rage of nodical focliti-c.
diffren  defntin    ofuranarn  Mo  offeot compaahility of data                          Adeodosieope PRHOopital led - Total sorte  of sin osicos to or dis-h-gr- Free
amn toutrr; ibyd,  97, end 195di.hc-itsio divided ty the suaher of brie.
oPI_lt il   isya   01-C_rvt po.pultti- proJectioa are bae ... diHOUING
1975 teenS populatice by ag  and   cmdoteir  -otality cod fersility                   Avera ge Seer of tcucesld (per..co  per boood  - otl                 bure, end ruru   -
rate. P-ojethie p-rmter  for motality rateo eeprise of th-e                              A houshold econi ts of a groP of indloiduo n   sar ,living quarter  end
level  -osuing life e-pe-t-ny st birth i-ceaiag eith  -estryo.                          their coin  -es.  Aboarder or lodger ay orcy sot he u-ohdod is ttv
pe  capei to iosne hevel, end f-mle life copectenny stabIiboig at                       h-eshohd foe sat~istca  purpce.-
775 ye-r.  Te parenters for fertility rate also have tire  levels                    Avorage o       Iue f peso    err-n- total, uvbe, end rura  - beA-ge  unhe,
scesiag d-l-s  us fertility accerdung to inoen  leve  end pact                           of peroo   po  room ho allurFban, end rura  occpiedcoetlohd-elliogo.,
fecip olacing p-rf- -ene    ob cuntry to thon aoaig-ed on  of thes                      r-potively.   oelliags eslude sce-ponacet otruterc  end oec-peed p-r-e
sine cosi-iti-s  of motality end fertility treds for pr-j-ctice                       Acceno to  Elec7triity (p-eret of doelligco) - totu1, -bte, end  -uro  -  Co-
purpses                                                                                  vstic_l dueligo sith e1cotricity is livig qeart-r  so peroetago  o~f
ISoticcrypopslotioc - inP  . Ituti-7r Pupaltae   teer ie no grouc h                        tbtd,  rte_, end rura  d-rllicgere-p-ctlely.
since the birth rate isequal to the deoth rate, and aloe the age
otruct-r  reeisovo-tent. This is enhi-vd  only after fertility  -ste-               hiLKiATION
deolise to the rplac -et leve  of unit set  ep-ud-etio rote, chat                     Adj-stee cFroh1mst Patios
_ah g_-evtson of  s=_ replacesitcoltf e-stly.  The stationary pepo-                      Pri-ny school -ttl,sl  end fenale     rs  total, male end femahe  --1o1l
ntIni- -sco  e-tiaatvd en the basis of its projted charateristics                          meat ofallges at its pi-uy leve  asp_rotge- of r-peoti-e primay
of the pepoltien  is lthe yer 2000, end the rate if do1se  of fertility                    school-age ppulotio..o; acoeally is-lde- ohildr-  aged 6.-il peac  bet
rate to r_pl_veet  eve.                                                                    sdjusttd foe differsot 1-ogtt  of prisory odeotioc; for  -costooc   ith
Year oshti-nory pepuhitien is reacted - The year stec sttien-y pepuhatios                    orveus  sctiec sor..lenot nay occeed 100 p-rcet cis-.ns  pupils
sice ten tscoreact~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                    arc~~~~~, hel   or above the offiodil school age.
P .pulation De-ity                                                                           Gecoay sotho  - octal cole end fe-ol  - Compu tedsocveoootr
Per eq. ken. - Kod-yea  populntiec per oqur.hil-mte-  (lii he-tarc) ofedecatiosr-q1eie   at l-st fou  year  of approve  Prioy ist_uto-s
teish sespr-idec g9-era  voontio-l, or te-hte  t-aisiag i-tr-tiu-: foe pepule
Per 0. len.grioelt-rl lend - Conpeted en stov  fsragl                  1e ed                 u_ooly ef i2 to 17 yeses of age;  --repe.ndee  euuc   r  go--rly
only.                                                                                      seluded.'
s.ItiesAg etltru     -r   erees.t)   Childre  (0-lb year), -sriog-ago                     Vostiocal c-oll ent (percet of o-ndary) - Vootetr  i-stitutie                  In es-lde
(ly0~ -6hreird                    psr  endoe)s  p-r-tigen of mid-ya                          teoocl          strin,  c  otterP proram    hit operto  iodop-od-tly  rs
a.,~ toc, ~.1  0, .1970, end 1977 data.                                                    dep_tenats of secon.dary isotitetios
Pena sGoth  at  (cres)- sa   - incuo  groh rates of total mid-                       Pupul-t-hctrrtie - pri-y, sod seecedoy - Cotsi  ted-nto  -ar1iso  ic
yerP,puoseofor 1951M-t, )1950-70, en  1970-77.                                               primay end so...idry level  divided by sort c    f teenheroic  thocerr--
Populstics=Gruitcat  Cpe__es) -_uba  - Aooual g-th rates of arte                                pccding levels.
P.olatiofu  1950.6b0, l5c-70, end 1970-75.                                                 Adult ltersy Ist I(psocot) - Liert-t  sluice  (..Io to roa  end s-it) us
CrdeP  LtPte o  thoesend) - Aoosual live bietbo pR- th...do   ed                             prstaoo totatl adet popoisti-s aged 15 py-   ndevr
yea   sylic  1   ,170, end 1977 dat.
Crude leach ente (Per Anoued) - M-en1 deaths per ttoead  s aid-yea-                       GiHII
populnti-o; 1960, 1970, end 1977 dsia.                                                   P--eger Cars (per th-ued ypuplstioc( - P-ov-ce  ear  -cp-os  enter   r
Geese  -erd-cti-t Pate_-Ae agesunb-r of esughtr  a  cen h  bee                               seating.leos thre  eight p--co; -cld-e orbul-n , h-es-  end sihtiy
is tee cora  rproductive perIod if steecyricc   pr _ct ag-  _ehu-ls.
sPecIfic fst ilty  -st-; u-eoly fur-yea  ave-g- ending ic 1950,                         Rodi Pervr   er  h ed P.pulitIo)-All tys o-f  -eoie-  for redo-
191,ed GSCO                                       .trn                                         esoretlpbi   e   hued of poltos -reloden estice..eed
gently P1iscoie - A.-ePt,o, Annua  (theuseno) - dncosl suhro                                  eciesucoree   n   0  ee   bsreooetc f                          endie tot  ac  i
acceptors of birth--oat_l devicecunder suspioc   of -tattoos1 family                       vffeot ;dta  for rocent yeses sep t coo he       ..ep..nh   siso  s-..-  eo  r
hancing progrc.                                                                            oheliohed li-ecog.
Famiy Pluf-iag-Isr  (sesof soried woen) -Prragof caried                                    TV Peceives'Per th-eac  poplntie-) - TVroo--er  for hb-d-se  to. g--cr
nosy of  hild-beaing age(15-Il pace) ob   bs th-r-cctr-  d-vi-e                public per th -ed populotioc; e-lude- eoliv--o    TV revl e-  ivvoe-tri-
to all  -ovetd  -eme  isene age grop.                                                      en   c    _ec   h_r  rgis-teios of TV e-to  -s -ecffeot.
Pessr Ciolito  (per ithsend --~ltriuc   -  htoo  tlc overge  --reeltieo
POOl 101 NUTITIONI                                                                             of 'dily gerel ist-retce-opspe-`   e ledn      viedo   paivatioc
oIrd- of P      rdcicpR-O Capts (l969-.7l~10t( -  oInde of Per -pit5                         d-vted promorey tod recoding ges-ra  e              tcac.. Iti-odedi 00 by "dolly'
aceSprodeetio  of all feed vnsnditiu.' Prdutls senlud-  seed end                       if it app--nrot leat fou  tine- cec
feed end in co -s-dac yea  basis.  Cosnditer- cover pri-y goods                          le,isc   tednecrCpt  e   vr-iod0   i   edro   ieo
(e.g  saorene  osred o  suar)otib ar  edbleendcetis  utrent1sed-iduig its yea, icoluding snddisoic. to dr-v-ic ciooso  sod inbite
(e.. Icffee end tea se  occlded)   Aggregate production of -ch country                  oi
is  _nsd 00P nat-cn  avrge producer pIer sihts.
Pee o t  suppl  ofcoeies (percotof rpt et)-Cespeted free                               nRc pio
sorrytequiv-lco  ef st food ouppli-o -vilntlc In sstry Per  -spita                    temi inhEr- Forc  (tho..enosj        - Gooio-ly  vt-ec persons..  roledio1 u..eve
Per dy.  Ae-ilatle oupplies d-prioc dometic p-d-otioc, impots lean                      forces end oremployd bt   vldihg ..uenec,-             tu-o,     etc- lEfi-ot-.o
soPorro, end ohangecfisosonk.  Nte  supplies e-ldde eninal feed, seds,                   to vaiou  -oet-oe  arc cot e_psrabie.
qa_tiuc t_ ard is-odd p-coesstg, end looses in diutelbtico. Pequir- -                 F-lyjyrr-es) - FemohI  labor foc  a               eraoo  to-tot lobor foce
vet in ecr 'codb   A   sedo   tcocimloeefrcra                                 AgIid.turi7ecss   - inber forc  icfamig tfreotry, hceing end
entiiry end health coInsideig e-i-"-eont  tenpe-tue, body ceighto,                      fiohig so pereetage of total labor force
ag  en  ccc diotritetiusi  of pcpolst-, end sllcsing LI percent Fee                    ndustry (percen t) - inte  feo  es..   s. oig,  cotruceo    ouufact-riag usd
oste at ztousetld ls-1.                                                                 eleerroity, snt_ end coo soPeecetago of totsl inter forc.
rue capita upply of protein (grac  pe  day) - Peteisoost-nt WPer                        P-rticirnti-s cRe (p-rcet) -total, male, ace feah   - g_ticupatico or
caPita net supplY offodpea,ti  -pply of food so seti-rd e                                  ticityrores  see oaputed on total, nale, end fen.le tutor fsrc  s  er
nbove. Pequiresorts for all  _ootei_ e_tblished by lIlA  provide f or a                  _cg-o of tetol, sale end femal  ppulatie- of all ageorepeoir
clolest  alnec      f 6o gr-m  of total proteu  Per d   end 20 gram   of                1960, 1970 , end 1975 dasa.  These ac  GIn'OI pnticiptroc   ra ltes   flettong
enisl end pulse pr-teho, of stint 10 gram   shoed be enina  prorcis.                    age-usc ntructee of tie populsios, end lnog rise trec.d.  ACes estimatee
Ths   ocd -sar   oe  Ahnn  tho-r of 75-gram   of total pretelo cod                oefe   cl lsucs
25 gesm  of ami  -lpris. so en  avrge for the  -eld, proposed by Phi                  tEnoonto lensodeecy Ostic    Patio of pepulsto-  urd- 15 end 65 end over to
in the Third W-eld Feod lur-y.                                                          the lsbor Core  in age grop of 15-64 yra-.
Per  tso ta rosi  supl frI        mmlen        le -Prtein supply of food
der-ived from  anial  endf pue   na grm  perNC 0000  DISTRIBUTION
Cid (ags1- Irilt  Hat (pe rhco=                   - A -  -innI de-tho per thcueand      Percetage of private  I...e (btote is   -h end huod) -  eR-ie-d by- rihe-t
to age grop 1-4 y-sr, to children In thia agegroup; for 0000 de-l-                         5 prcenat, lioheat 20 percet, poores~t II p_rort, end pooret 40 percet
eying  _etrIe- dnta derivd C re  life tbhle..of thoaetlda.
HEALTH                                                                                     POVE10ff TARGET GROUPS1
Life lEpcota y at Pet  (yeses  - Averge  ob-e ef year  of life                            Intimated Absoluts P.ereIen   ee   Ctpr  nis      re   n   un 
reminiing at birth"; 1951, 1970, end 1977. dar.Abooute poverty tocemyleve  is tint I..-o  l-el belen   tihasuc. tni_
Isfent Mt trtoity late (P., tbocend) -A-mou   desith  ef isfacta under-c                     istiri ...oly adequate diet plus es-etia1 see-food  equiremesr  is cct
per  f age pR  thnusacd live birtho.                                                     sffrdnbls.
Accs tolCI        ne  crsa   fpplto)- total.cohen  end rPr                                 EPoilctel  Peltee Poety         -     L ... Ice    (11$ Per  -pstr) -  lrba  end rarl -
Nubrof p_ep.  (t      "ES,utbac, mad rura) slsh rsacaals noves  to                     PRali relasr  pererty loc    en-Ic i0cc-third of  -eag   Per -pits
onfest-cropply  (iolodco treted sufac  cato- or entreted but                               per...al iscne- of ite coutr'y.Itcbre 1 1To de-ie-d fre  the rura  level
unest Intoad ea terochs  thnr  eo  protected b..eholso, springs,slith adJu_tm t for higher cost of ltvtng Tn urbanaes
end aenitor    et)n  percstge  of their respectIve popolatta. An                        Potinsted Popultio  Bs1ec Absolute Povety Icm   Level (qrvett( - urba  end
an  rtn ae   publi  fountain or otadndyt incahed Oct mar  then                           rural - Prcent of pupulatica  (-ba  end rurl)  htear   aoclut  por..
10atero  feca s chose as  be  -aideed asa being eithin resoable
Idia  e  that ho.'  In rurl areas rss...able  -nves  could taply
rtat tho    -woeife er  -ob-r  of she houaehcld do not hses to spend                                                               E c...nio ed S-eia1 iatn PIi-uio
dlpoctoaep-t of the day To fetching tie fanilys. cater seeds                                                       Zcn_.d Anslysis end P-je-ti... Peparr..est
August 1979



ANNEX I
zomalc DVMEPIT MU                                         Page 4 of 5
c PR r    I? w N 1917: VW  150
b/                                                                                                  e
GRCS  AIOtL iP2cr tI 1977/7118                                                                    K    CU-F GW=F  t2. Content *rice$)
Qs$ B51.      *L.                                            1960/61-1946/65     1965/64-I99/70    1970/71-1976/77
GOP at Market Prices           101.47      100.0                                                 3.9                  3.8                3.2
GCroa Doetic 10vest nt          21.65       21.3
Gross National saving           22.77       22.4
Currant Account Balance  d/      1.04        1.0
Lesource  ala nce  d/          - 0.31      - 0.3
OMt, L. WR FO tCR AND Pn nnDCTIVX  Ilt 1971
Value Added (at factor costi        lnbor Force             V.A. Per    r
UN  j1D                       % It l.       2                       % of lational Averafe
Agriculture                      24.5           46.6              130.0    72.1             151              64
ladustry                         11.8           22.3               20.2    11.2             582             199
Services                         16.3           31.1               30.2    16.7             542             186
Total/sverage                    52.6          100.0              180.4   100.0             292             100
coVUZ FT FINA"c                                               !/
Cenral Coverment                                            Central Govert
&A. Un             2 of 'a            -                       Sln Bic
l977/7S   197717S    19174175-1977178                                1977/7S    197717E  s8t-s77
1977/76HIM 9  F
Current Receipts                164.42         18.9          18.2                            95.62         11.0           10.5
Current Expenditures            157.29         18.1           9. 5S.2t7                                    l9              9.9
Current Surplus/Deficit           7.13          0.8           1.6                             0.35         n.e.            0.6
Cepital Zxenditures  f/          62.58          7.2           7.0                            43.31          5.0            5.0
Isternal A1siance (net) A/        9.82          1.1           1.6                             9.82          1.1            1.6
WO     CIT AND PRCS                1970171    1973/74    1974/75   1975/76    1976/77    127778       SEt_ber 1977       Smtsas 1978
(Rs Billion outatanding at end of period)
Koney and Quasi lney                121.4      198.4      220.3      254.7      308.9      365.1          334.8            395.d
Bank Credit to Govermnnt (net)       52.6       87.3       95.3      101.1      110.2      129.7          119.3            139.5
lank Credit to Coercia-  Sector      64.6      107.0      126.7      153.9      185.1      210.0          195.3            223.5
(Percantage or loeizx Numbers)                           January 1978      JAnur   1979
Money and Quasi money as 2 of MtP    30.1       33.5       31.'       34.5       38.8        41.9
Wholesale Price Indax
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0      139.7      174.9      173.0      176.6       185.8        184.5            14.6
kAnal perantase changes in.
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7       20.2       25.2      - 1.1        2.1         5.2          3.2               0.1
Bank Credit to Govermnent (net)      10.8       12.3        9.;2       6.1        9.0        17.7         13.4              16.9
ESok Credit to.Comercial Sector      19.4       21.6       18.4       21.5       20.3        13.5         16.6              14.4
1/ The per capita CIP *etimate is at _rkat prices, calculated by the convereion techiqus used in the World Atlas.
All other conversion to dollars in this table are at the an erage exchange rate prevailing during Ahe period cowered.
b/ Quick latietas.
c/ oputed from trend line of IN1 at factor cost series, including one observation before first yer and one
observation after last year of listed period.
d/ World lank estimtes; not necessarily consistent with official National Account Statistics.
*l Transfers betwen Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All lo an and advances to third parties have been netted out.
i External grants and loans, less principal repayments, as recorded in the Central ludget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
=/         C/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79                  MERCHANDISE RYPOKIS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(U$ million)                                                        USS  Mln.       %
Exports of Goods                  4,672     5,753        6,276        6,800              Engineering Gu,ods              610        11
Imports of Goods                 -6,449    -5,928       -7,237       -8,400              Tea                             417          7
Trade Balance                    -1,777      - 175       - 961       -1,600              Gems                            377          7
NFS (net)                           310        360          650         700              Clothing                        331         6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                 -1.467        185       - 311       -  900                       Products               278         5
i/                                                              Jute Manufactures              267         5
Interest Payments (net)           - 216      - 180        - 50          -                Iron Ore                        265         5
Other Factor Payments (net)          -          -            -          -                Cotton Textiles                 248         4
Net Transfers  j/                   470        730       1,400       1,300                Sugar                          244         4
Others                       2,530        45
Balance on Current Account       -1,213        735       1.039         400
Total                        5.567        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                  2,341     1,953        1,628       1,805               EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1978
Amortization                   - 531     - 560        - 645       - 725                                                     US$ billion
Transactions with IMP               242     - 337        - 330       - 158               Outstanding a*d Disbursed                14. 8
All Other Items                    - 45      - 216         384          205              Undisbursed                               4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)          - 794    -1,575       -2,076      -1,527                     Undisborsed                        19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)         2,172     3,747        5,823       7,350                                                 h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/       1,365     3,276        5,668       7,350               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FoR 1977/78           15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                               IBRD/IDA LENDING  DECEMBER 31. 1978
Imports                           1,417     1,581        1,817       1,980                                                     us$  illion
of which: Petroleum             1,417     1,581        1,817       1,980                                                 IBRD          IDA
Exports                              43         37          33        n.a.               Outstandi., ..d Disbursed          613         3,864
of which: Petroleum                22        21           18        n.a.               Undisbursed                        615         1,992
Outstanding, including                 m/
Undisbursed             1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971           US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972       US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978              US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
US$1.00 - Rs 0.122
h/ Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
a included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/, Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 29, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                              1,163.2
60 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,624.6
312-IN     1972   India    Population                  --        21.2      .68
342-IN     1972   India    Education                   --        12.0    5.92
356-IN      1973   India    IDBI I                     --        25.0    8.44
378-IN      1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    4.31
390-IN      1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --           55.0    7.22
456-IN      1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    7.66
481-IN      1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --           50.0      .44
1011-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          --      22.61
482-IN      1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --        30.0   21.55
502-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD         --        83.0   36.15
520-IN     1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer           --        91.0    1.04
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   15.89
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    6.34
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0   11.33
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer           109.0      --      10.75
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI             95.6      --       4.17
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0   10.58
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   13.44
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    7.70
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   12.89
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   24.24
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry         --       105.0   59.90
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   84.90



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN      1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0      2.41
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    14.40
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    108.56
1260-IN      1976   India    IDBI II                  40.0        --      24.30
1273-IN      1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0       --      24.22
1313-IN      1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0          --      23.47
1335-IN      1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0          --      10.36
680-IN      1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   29.04
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   16.76
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0  112.46
687-IN      1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   15.74
690-IN     1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --          4.0    1.44
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries           14.0      --      14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.24
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --         23.0   17.35
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.22
1473-IN      1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --      67.51
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   52.06
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   10.93
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --         58.0   49.46
1475-IN      1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0      --      37.75
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   95.97
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   62.79
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.75



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN      1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                  25.0       --      25.00
1549-IN      1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power          105.0       --      94.13
788-IN      1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --            117.6  106.73
793-IN      1978   India    Korba Thermal Power         -         200.0  179.25
806-IN      1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture           --         14.0   13.96
808-IN      1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation          --         85.0   79.84
815-IN      1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries               --         17.5   17.23
816-IN      1978   India    National Seeds II           --         16.0   15.97
1592-IN      1978   India    Telec:ommunications VII 120.0          --      62.55
824-IN      1978   India    National Dairy              --        150.0  143.57
842-IN      1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II               --        196.0  194.78
843-IN      1979   India    Haryana Irrigation          --        111.0   85.47
844-IN      1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance           --        190.0  172.90
848-IN      1979   India    Punja.b Water Supply
& Sewerage              --         38.0   35.66
855-IN      1979   India    National Agricultural
Research                --         27.0   26.90
862-IN      1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension               --         25.0   24.29
871-IN      1979   India    NCDC                        --         30.0   24.61
1648-IN      1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   50.0       --      50.00
874-IN      1979   India    Ramagundamn Thermal
Power                   --        200.0  200.00
889-IN      1979   India    Punjab Irrigation           --        129.0  123.34
899-IN      1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                  --         48.0   48.00
911-IN      1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II                --        175.0  175.00
925-IN      1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry                --         23.0   22.47



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN     1979   India      ARDC III                  --      250.0     250.00
1743-IN*    1979   India      Thal Fertilizer         250.0       --      250.00
963-IN*    1979   India      Inland Fisheries                   20.0      20.00
Total                                  2,528.8  7,255.0
of which has been repaid               992.1      58.4
Total now outstanding                  1,536.7  7,196.6
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   116.2        17.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,519.1  7,196.6
Total undisbursed (excluding*)           579.4  2,797.6
*    Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENI' OF IFC INVESTMENTS
TAs of February 29, 1980)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                         Loan     Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5       -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9       -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4       -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2       -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7       0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8        1.4      13.2
1964        Laksbmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0       0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1       1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8      18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                             6.6        -         6.6
1978        Housing Development FinLance
Corporation                                4.0        1.4       5.2
1980        Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.            7.5        1.1       8.6
TOTAL                               61.1       11.5       72.6
Less:  Sold                                  5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                              17.4         -        17.4
Cancelled                            6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                            31.6        9.1       40.7
Undisbursed                         11.7        1.7       13.4



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$538 million in FY79, compared to US$497 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
February 29, 1980 totalled US$366 million, representing an increase of about
32% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,377 mil-
lion as of February 29, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of 'projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain St:orage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: February 29, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The Sindri project has also been commissioned and commercial produc-
tion is expected shortly. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a
result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in comple-
tion of engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project prep-
aration and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-
projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or comple!ted, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually comple!te. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training, of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slcwly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal.  In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
Aections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
the financial analysis and market:ing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with the!se problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesn Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date:  December 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under conisiderable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project: operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date:  June 9, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Conmmand Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 1.7
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.



ANNEX II
Paee 13 of 17
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa AgriculturaLl Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultuaral Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are tnder preparation.  In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementat"ion, although progress in areas where



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, "he pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Projice  TJnit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
ptoject.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
ovecall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementatioa.of most components is p,-oceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Cr-edit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 19I76; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational



ANNEX II
Page 16 nf 17
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National anid State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program suDported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet exparsion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities havF been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, altho'igh efforts are being made to speed up the works program..
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date:  October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.        US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Pa   17 of 17
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The secmnd such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Eifective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which would cover about 140 rural electrification schemes. There are now
thirteen State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared
with six at the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due
principally to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures
to international competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the
full amount of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 would provide con-
tinued support to the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program,
and help finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs,
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an
early stage of implementation, and preparation of bid specifications is
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
CASHEWNUT PROJECT
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The States of Kerala, Karnataka, Orissa and Andhra
Pradesh, under overall coordination of GOI.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
September 1978;    October 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
Appraisal carried out by a mission in September/October
1978 and follow-up missions in March 1979 and September/
October 1979.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 31, 1980.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 1980.
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOI and ARDC to execute a financial arrangement,
as a. condition of disbursement against the credit
component (para 53);
(b) The States and ARDC to work out suitable criteria
to select fields to implement cashew improvement
program (para 44);
(c) The States to provide subsidies to smallholders
(para 46);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) Orissa to prepare and submit to IDA the imple-
mentation plan for sand dune land (para 49);
(e) Kerala to submit its annual road construction program
by June 30 of each year (para 50);
(f)  GOI to start cashew study by September 30, 1980 and
provide its report to IDA (para 51);
(g) Karnataka to appoint a finance officer in the State
Corporation by December 31, 1980 (para 52);
(h)  GOI to submit research proposal to IDA by September
30, 1980 (para 48);
(i) GOI to establish the Project Coordination Committee
by September 30, 1980 (para 54); and
(j) The States to establish State-level Coordinating Com-
mittees by September 30, 1980 (para 55).



________________________________oiconlrol                      J       )  \         80°  9 92@       ?va\                                               IBRD   14193R1
Apprx,ox.tetiLm of Contro                           ,                  I,/JI                                                                  
DEM.REP.OF(                                                             
AFGHANISTAN                              ,                                                                 ...
<'CHIA 5*                                          5                   iB I H A R%
PAKISTAN                                                                                                                                    S-T-
z_t \->EPAL <<g~HUTAN                                                                                                                               IL?  EST  :
_.NEPAL-'r~ f ~            'WES
-.4 ,-                              VMADHYA  PRADESH                                       *                '  BENGAL
\M                                         PAMA  .   E               . H
-N~~~~~~~~~~~-e
t / ~~~~~~~~~'                                                        r     .  -/t<9,  ;02,,,7,5,,
AREA  0F                             <s                                                                          f'      -X&s 
MAP    BAY  O EF                  -20° 2RiS0S                                                                            "'I, lr0
710'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
MA HAR ASHTRA
AN D A                                                          BAY  A
A RA .IA Al               MAHARASHTRA  /  $                                                 ,              .P
I       SAerrep ~ ~ ~ ~ Mio Cse   Poucin  ro
Pr0/M                                                 Cos'new P        c     Areas
F.:/TKARNATAKA                                                                             N Mfa
.~~~~~f/                                       NAD                                                        Mediu Cahe ProeSin Center
-   :   h            X                       \   1.\.\                    ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F I  Natoa  Cahe  Reeac  Cete
A RABIJAN                   t                            ' & 'm, o 2                                     CASI-HEWNUT PROJECT
I Crashew StReserhSaon
SEA~~2 -                                                                                                     )_X,_   Project DIstricts
- St0et0oir '    ^                r       s               /       -      -      -(/  .       Minor Cashew      Production Areas
Coornzonrez      <         g                           eff/e.                                Mojar Cashew Production Areas
AY'ShornBo/rnrthr tae  oudaie
t.azhikc&;\ 9 sA             /       ~Stecr,ee        .u    Minor Cashew Pracessing Centers
.   .  E     .f   i(^w            NA DUs/:  - -./                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~* Mediurr Caushew Processing Centers
t ~  ~    ~        rapgam, P;r/ -ag/af             /   --/*                                           Major Cazshew Processing Center
. .  .   hlonr>asti *;  }                t  . jz                                      il~~~~~~~~~~ Natfional Catshew Researchz Center
-iOa~ ~      ~ ~~oci ;                                                                                     Atsa_    sf      -a  Cashew Research Stations      lr
.heepe                                                              - ,                                      Ihn%    I  $    Major Cashew Export Part
Werld Bonk's steff oxcJs'vely fef
tr cofnvenience of tfe readers of
the .epon rt which it iS attached                                                                            a        a
The denoinetioos used and the  -                    '         .                                                    _   _  _   _00  200  300    400      500
boundase sshawn e tho,imap                    -                     -OMETE*                                                                -
dor tnt impfy. on re po of the                                                           LAN   A                                0 AA E T ETRS
Wo;rd  aok aond its offidiates, exy                                               SRI  LANK
judgment 0n the legal xtaeoo of
aey ternri or atoy endorsementr
or acc*ptance of such boxndarieo.                                   :          - 80°                                                                                9,0
APRIL 1980



