CREDIT NUMBER 1012 IN
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTj
Project Agreement
(Cashewnut Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
and
STATE OF KARNATAKA
and
STATE OF KERALA
and
STATE OF ORISSA
Dated          (  2    "           ,1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1012 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       011,    10            , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (hereinafter called the
Association) and STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Andhra Pradesh), and STATE OF KARNATAKA,
acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Karnataka) and STATE OF
KERALA, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Kerala) and
STATE OF ORISSA, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called
Orissa), all being States of India (hereinafter collectively
called the Project States).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that the Project
States agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date between the Association
and the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (here-
inafter called ARDC), ARDC has agreed to undertake certain obliga-
tions in respect of the carrying out of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the Asso-
ciation's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Rs." means rupees in the currency unit of the
Borrower.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Project States shall carry out Part B of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each Project State undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds or the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by such Project State to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each
Project State shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project State shall at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) Each Project State shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by such Project State of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. In implementing cashew planting program under
Part A.1 of the Project, each Project State shall provide or cause


﻿- 3 -
to be provided a subsidy to the farmers to a level of 25% of the
cost of new planting or Rs. 900 per hectare, whichever is less.
Section 2.06. Each Project State shall, by September 30,
1980: (i) establish a State Project Coordination Committee with
terms of reference mutually agreed upon between the Project States
and the Association; (ii) and appoint a Project Officer at the
state level.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Project States shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of their departments or agencies responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.02. The Project States shall cause their depart-
ments and agencies responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) in respect of the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associ-
ation such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. The Project States shall, by September 30,
1980, draw up their staff training programs to be carried out
under Part B.2 of the Project and furnish said programs to the
Association for comments, if any.
Section 3.04. Karnataka and Kerala shall give priority to
the Project Area for implementing the Training and Visit Extension
System.


﻿Section 3.05. Orissa shall, by December 31, 1980, prepare
and make available to the Association, plans for implementing a
dune reclamation pilot scheme to be carried out unaer Part B.3 of
the Project.
Section 3.06. Kerala shall, not later than June 30 of each
year, furnish to the Association its annual road construction
program to be carried out under Part B.4 of the Project.
Section 3.07. Karnataka shall, not later than December 31,
1980, cause the Karnataka Cashew Developmert Corporation Limited
to employ a finance officer with adequate experience for insti-
tuting a management accounting and reporting system.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the Project States thereunder shall termi-
nate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Project States of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Andhra Pradesh:
Secretary to the Government
of Andhra Pradesh,
Department of Finance and Planning
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh
India
Cable address:
APFIN
Hyderabad
For Karnataka:
Secretary to the Government
of Karnataka
Department of Planning
Bangalore
India


﻿-6-
Cable address:
PLANNING SECRETARY
Bangalore
For Kerala:
Special Secretary to the Government
of Kerala
Department of Agriculture
Trivandrum
India
Cable address:
AGRISEC
Trivandrum
For Orissa:
Secretary to the Government
of Orissa
Department of Agriculture and Cooperation
Bhubaneswar
India
Cable address:
AGRICULTURE SECRETARY
Bhubaneswar
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Project States may be taken or
executed by a Secretary to each such Project State or such other
persc,n or persons as each State shall designate ir writing, and
each State shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
Section 5.04. Any amendment to the provisions of this Agree-
ment, as applicable to each Project State, may be made by an
agreement between the Association and such Project State alone.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /c     w
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
STATE OF KARNATAKA
STATE OF KERALA
STATE OF ORISSA
By    /
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   General
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally under procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Road construction under Part B.4 of the Project and civil
works related to the pilot scheme and research component under
Parts B.3 and C.1, respectively, of the Project may be carried out
by force account.
2.   Motorcycles and bicycles may be purchased by individual
staff directly from loan funds provided by the Project States.
3.   Small items estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or
less may be procured off-the-shelf by prudent shopping through
normal commercial channels.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to contracts for (i) civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and (ii) equipment and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower or the State
concerned, as the case may be, shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 9 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower or the State concerned, as the case may be, shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the
name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and
shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower or the State con-
cerned, as the case may be, and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower or the State concerned, as the case may
be, shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal. of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower or the State
concerned, as the case may be, and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower or the State
concerned, as the case may be, shall inform the Association of the
proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and the


﻿- 10 -
reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform the Borrower or the State concerned,
as the case may be, and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   L    1   day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


