OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS       CREDIT NUMBER 1012 IN
ARDC Agreement
(Cashewnut Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated           t()                   1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1012 IN
ARDC AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     WU-' 10     1980, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter
called ARDC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that ARDC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by financial arrangements to be entered into between
the Borrower and ARDC, part of the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to ARDC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARDC shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement in
accordance with a banking plan, and shall act with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative
and financial practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
ARDC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. ARDC shall enter into Financial Arrangements
with the Borrower on terms and conditions agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association. Except as the Association may
otherwise agree, ARDC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the provisions of the Financial Arrangements.
Section 2.05. The lending terms and conditions for carrying
out Part A of the Project shall be mutually agreed upon among
the Borrower, ARDC and the Association.
Section 2.06. ARDC: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of Part A of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditures of the
proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. (a) ARDC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) ARDC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ARDC of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. ARDC shall, in consultation with the Project
States, establish criteria for selecting cashew plantations
for improvement in the Project Area.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARDC
Section 3.01. ARDC shall: (i) at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound
business and financial practices and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management assisted by experienced and
competent technical staff in adequate number; and (ii) take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business or in the carrying out of Part A of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARDC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of ARDC and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. ARDC shall cause the Participating Banks (i) to
maintain separate accounts for loans made in respect of Part A
of the Project; and (ii) to send to the Association through ARDC
their audited accounts (together with an analysis of overdue and
bad debts and a statement certified by ARDC of their Project
lending) not later than four months after the end of their
fiscal years.


﻿Section 4.04. ARDC shall, after the completion of the Pro-
ject, make available adequate credit funds in the Project Area to
ensure completion of the plantation program initiated under the
Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of ARDC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ARDC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿-5-
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ARDC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation
Shri Niketan
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India
Cable address:
AGREFINANS
Bombay 18, India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ARDC may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as ARDC shall
designate in writing, and ARDC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-6-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By        K
Regional Vice President
South Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   /OA- day of
1980                            V
FOR SECRETARY


