- - CREDIT NUMBER 1012 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Cashewnut Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      5     u    L0        , 1980


﻿CRZDIT NUMBER 1012 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            v      (0        , 1980, between
INDIA, acting by its President '(hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Agri-
cultural Refinance and Development Corporation with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corpora-
tion part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) Part B of the Project will be carried out by the States
of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Orissa with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to said States part of the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Orissa, and
with the ARDC Agreement between the Association and Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms -efined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Andhra Pradesh" means the State of Andhra Pradesh, a
State of India, or any successor thereof;
(b) "Karnataka" means the State of Karnataka, a State
of India, or any successor thereof;
(c) "Kerala" means the State of Kerala, a State of India,
or any successor thereof;
(d) "Orissa" means the State of Orissa, a State of India,
or any successor thereof;
(e) "Project States" mean collectively the States of Andhra
Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Orissa;
(f) "ARDC" means Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, a statutory corporation established and organized
under the laws of the Borrower, or any successor thereof;
(g) "Project Area" means the districts of Srikakulam,
Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari,
Krishna, Khammam, Prakasam, Nellore and Chittoor in Andhra
Pradesh; the South Kannara district in Karnataka; the districts of
Cannanore, Kozhikode, Mallapuram and Palghat in Kerala; and the
districts of Balasore, Cuttack, Dhenkanal, Ganjam, Keonjhar,
Mayurbhanj, and Puri in Orissa;
(h) "Participating Bank" means any State Land Development
or Mortgage Bank, State Couperative Bank, Regional Rural Bank or
Commercial Bank making loans, which are, or are proposed to be
refinanced by ARDC under the Project;
(i) "State Corporations" mean collectively the Karnataka
Cashew Development Corporation Limited, the Andhra Pradesh Forest
Development Corporation Limited, the Plantation Corporation of
Kerala Limited and the Orissa State Cashew Development Corporation
Limited;


﻿- 3 -
(j) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association Pnd the Project States of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement; and
(k) "Financial Arrangements" mean the arrangements to be
made between the Borrower and ARDC pursuant to Section 3.02 (b)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
1985 or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.


﻿Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January
15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1990, and ending January 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to
be carried out Part C of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Project States and ARDC to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the ARDC Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable the Project States and ARDC to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend $13,700,000 out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit to ARDC under Financial Arrangements to be
entered into between the Borrower and ARDC under terms and condi-
tions mutually agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Financial Arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Financial Arrangements or any provision thereof.


﻿- 5 -
(d) The Borrower shall make $7,000,000 out of the proceeds
of the Credit available to the Project States in accordance with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance
to the States of India.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes that the study to
be prepared under Part C.2 of the Project shall commence by
September 30, 1980 and a copy of the report arising from said
study will be made available to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall cause to be prepared and
furnished to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower, the Project States and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
Project Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1980,
furnish to the Association proposals for carrying out cashew
research under Part C1 of the Project.
Section 3.06. For the purpose of better coordination in
implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall, by September
30, 1980, establish a Project Coordination Committee in its
Ministry of Agriculture.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part C of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out Part C of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any Project State shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) ARDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ARDC Agreement;
(c) ARDC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by ARDC or by others whereby any of the property of ARDC shall or
may be distributed among its creditors;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ARDC or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that: (i) any Project State will be able


﻿-7-
to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; or (ii)
ARDC will b- able to perform its obligations under the ARDC
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and the Project States or
ARDC, as the case may be; and
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
by the Project States, and is legally binding upon each Project
State in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the ARDC Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ARDC and is legally binding upon ARDC in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date 4      "      tO   l&Z   is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.03. The provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 4.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 9 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By   4/      4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of t1ie Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage )f
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Plantations
(a) by farmers               5,700,000        55% of loans
(b) by State                 7,800,000        55% of loans
Corporations
(2) Civil works for Kerala        2,500,000        90%
feeder roads
(3) Staff salaries,               3,800,000        90%
vehicles, equipment,
operating costs and
training for depart-
mental support units
(4) Orissa pilot scheme             300,000        90%
(5) Research                      1,150,000        90%
(6) Study                           150,000        100%
(7) Unallocated                     600,000
TOTAL        22,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that, subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) immediately
following, withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $200,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1)
and (3) on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after December 1, 1979; and
(b) subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
expenditures under Category (1) until the Financial Arrangements
have been made.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 12 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to help finance a program of cashew
production in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and
Orissa and consists of the following:
Part A:
1.   Implementation of a cashew planting and improvement program
on about 35,000 hectares by farmers in the Project Area.
2.   Implementation of a cashew planting and improvement program
on about 26,000 hectares by the State Corporations, and construc-
tion of buildings and roads, and provision of staff, vehicles and
equipment for the State Corporations.
Part B:
1.   Provision of increases in staff, vehicles, equipment and
operating costs of supporting services for the implementation of
cashew planting and improvement by farmers.
2.   Training for staff of the Project States and State Corpora-
tions.
3.   Implementation of a pilot scheme to determine appropriate
cashew planting practices on about 500 hectares of coastal dune
land in Orissa.
4.   Improvement of about 200 km of feeder roads in Kerala.
Part C:
1.   Strengthening of research facilities by improving and
expanding the Central Cashew Research Station and three regional
sub-stations in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa, and by estab-
lishing one regional sub-station in Karnataka, for carrying out
cashew research.
2.   Preparation of a study for improvement of the organizational
structure of the cashew industry.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   /0.t     day of
198 cL
FOR SECRET


