Cr. q41                        FILE COPY
RESTRICTED
Report No.    PU-64a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
INDIA
March  30,  1971
Public Utilities Projects Department



CRENCY E UVALNTS
US$1         -Rs        7.50
Re 1         - US$      0.133
Rs 1 million - US$1,333.00
I$EASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer - 0.622 miles
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 _ Narch 31
LIST OF AMBIIEVIATIONS USED IN THE REPORT
ARC         - Administrative Reforms Commission
r&AG        - Comptroller and Auditor General
CIDA        - Canadian International Development Agency
DEL         - Direct Exchange Line
GOI         - Government of India
HCL         - Hindustan Cables Limited
P.TL        - Hindustan Teleprinters Limited
INTEISAT    - International Telecommunications Satellite Consortium
ITI         - Indian Telephone Industries Limited
OYT         - Own Your Telephone
PABX        - Private Automatic Branch Exchange
P&T         - The Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department
PCM         - Pulse Code liodulation (System)
RAX         - Rural Automatic Exchange
STD         - Subscriber T-unk Dialing
TAX         - Trunk Automatic Exchange
VHF         - Very High Frequency
YFPT        - Voice Frequency Telegraph
UHF         - Ultra High Frequency



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH TELECOINTJNICATIONS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUNIARY AND COINCLUSIONS                                     i - ii
1.   INTRODUCTION                                                   1
2.   THE SECTOR AND THE BORROWER                                    2
The Economic Setting                                        2
Sector Organization                                         2
P&T Operations                                               3
Existing Facilities                                          4
3.  THE PROGRAJq AND THE PROJECT                                    5
Project Targets                                              5
Project Costs                                                5
Progress Under Existing Loan 615-IN/Credit 153-IN            6
The Proposed Credit                                         6
Items for IDA Financing                                     6
Contingencies                                                7
Procurement                                                  8
Disbursement                                                 9
Project Execution                                           10
4.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION                                         11
Market Demand                                               11
Least-Cost Solution                                         11
Internal Financial Rate of Return and Economic Benefits   12
5.  FINANCES                                                       13
Financial Reorganization - Telecommunications Branch        13
Audit                                                       14
Tariffs                                                    14
Pro Forma Financial Statements                              14
Present Financial Position                                  15
Past Earnings                                               16
Future Finances - Financing Plan                            16
Future Operating Results                                    18
Future Financial Position                                   18
6.   RECOUHENDATIONS                                               19
This report is based on the findings of a mission consisting of
Hessrs. I.A. Newstead and J.k. Vance who visited India in November/
December 1970.



LIST OF' ANNEXES
1. Telephone Density in a Number of Asian Countries
2. Organization Chart - Telecommunications Sector
3. Staff Levels
4. Project Service Targets
5. Project Costs
6. Schedule of Disbursements - Loan 615IN/Credit 153IN
7. Items for IDA Financing
8. Notes on the T lecommunications Manufacturing Industries
9.  Measures for Improving Crossbar Production
.0. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements - Proposed Credit
1. Demand for Telephone Service
12. Internal Financial Rate of Return on the Project
13. Financial Reorganization - Telecommunications Branch
l4. Summary of Tariffs
15. Pro Forma Balance Sheets 1965/66-1975/76
16. Pro Forma Statements of Income 1965/66-1975/76
17. Pro Forma Sources and Applications of Funds 1965/66-1975/76



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
S 122IARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Posts and Telegraphs Department (P&T) is approaching mid-term
of its 5-year telecoramnications program, forming part of India's Fourth
Five-Year Plan (April 1969 - March 1974). The expansion program is a con-
tinuation of sch'emes successfully carried out previously as part of India's
Third Five-Year Plan with financing from IDA (Credits 28-IN and 58-IN).
ii.       The program aims at the balanced development of telecommunications
to support the growing needs of industry, trade and Government through con-
nection of an additional 540,0oo telephone services, extension of telex
services and rehabilitation and expansion of the long-distance network.
This program constitutes the project under appraisal.
iii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$652 million equivalents
with a foreign exchange content of US$168 million. Financing of foreign
exchange costs during the first phase (approximately three years) of the
project was provided by Loan 615-IN/Credit 153-IN each of US$27.5 million
and by a CIDA credit of C$35.5 million (US$32.5 million) recently increasev
to C$37.8 million (US$35 million). GOI is now seeking a Credit of US$78
million to complete the financing plan.
iv.       As with the previous Loan/Credit the proposed Credit would be
used for direct imports by P&T (US$26 million) and for reimbursement of
the foreign exchange content of goods supplied by the government domestic
telecommunications factories (US$52 million).
v.        Progress to date has been satisfactory despite shortfalls in
supplies from the cable factory in West Bengal where there is acute indus-
trial unrest, and shortages in crossbar switching equipment due to procure-
ment and production difficulties at the ITI factory. Increased cable imports
are proposed to offset local deficiencies, and measures to help overcome
problems of crossbar production - relatively new and complex - are being
taken by the Administration, including employment of production consult-
ants and streamlining of procurement procedures for emergency purchases.
Despite these delivery problems, the overall quality and price of locally
produced telecommunications goods are competitive in world markets.



- ii -
vi.       P&T has a high degree of autonomr, technical management is sound.
and financial reforms, now being implemented according to agreement reached
on specific issues and timetables during negotiations for Loan 615-IN/
Credit 153-IN, are creating the basis for eventual operation along commercial
lines. Tariffs are reasonable and sufficient to ensure an adequate rate of
return on average net plant in service of 11% which is necessary to ensure
that P&T can finance a reasonable portion of its capital expansion from
internal funds. The internal financial rate of return for the 5-year project
is 16%.
vii.      All goods purchased under the Credit with the exception of rela-
tively small quantities of proprietary components available only from one
supplier will be procured through international competitive bidding or
equivalent procedure acceptable to the Association.
viii.     The project forms a suitable basis for a further credit of US$78
million to complete the financing plan.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH TELECOOMUNICATIONS PROJECT
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPART'ENT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has applied for assistance in financ-
ing the foreign exchange costs required to complete the financing plan for
the telecommuiuications expansion program of the Posts and Telegraphs Depart-
ment (P&T), forming part of GOI's current Fourth Five-Year Plan (1969/70 -
1973/74).
1.02      There have been three Bank/IDA lending operations for P&T's tele-
communications development in India. Two previous IDA credits, for US$42
million (1962) and US$33 million (1964), were made during the Third Five-
Year Plan period (1961 - 1966). Foreign exchange for the first part of the
current P&T five-year program was financed by Loan 615-IN/Credit 153-IlUJ,
each for US$27.5 million, and a Canadian International Development Agency
credit of C$35.5 million (US$32.5 million) recently increased to C$37.8
million (US$35 million). The Bank/IDA funds were intended to cover about
three years' imports of finished goods and the foreign exchange content of
about two years' supply of goods from the local, government-owned factories;
the latter will now extend to almost three years due to shortfalls in factory
production that necessitate an increased level of imported goods to complete
the five-year program.
1.03      The proposed credit of US$78 million would cover the rest of the
program.  It is estimated that the current Loan/Credit will be about 90O
disbursed by lIlarch 1972 and fully disbursed by the closing date of
December 31, 1972. Additional foreign exchange is required now in order
to allow a smooth tendering, ordering and delivery process without disrupt-
ing the program because of a required lead time of two years.
1.04      This report, which is confined to the telecommunications aspects
of P&T's operations except where the context indicates, is based on infor-
mation provided by P&T and on the findings of an appraisal mission by
Messrs. I. A. Newstead and J. h. Vance, who visited India in November/
December 1970.



- 2 -
2.  THE SECTOR AND THE BORROJWfER
The Economic Setting
2.01      India has a population exceeding 550 million, second largest in
the world, and an area of over 3 million km2 which makes it the world's
seventh largest country. Since 1951, GOI has initiated a series of Five-
Year Plans designed to foster balanced development of agriculture, industry,
power supply and communications and to raise the standard of living, Which
today is indicated by a GNP per capita of about US$80 equivalent.
2.02      Telecommunications services are able to meet only about two-thirds
of the present demands of administration, commerce and industry. With 950,0CG
direct exchange lines (DEL's) connected there is a waiting list of nearly
500,0OO which is expected to exceed 1 million by 1974. The telephone density
in India of 0.2 telephones per hundred population is one of the world's lowest.
For comparison purposes, Annex 1 gives statistics of telephone density for
a number of Asian countries.
2.03      The wide dispersion of industry -- cotton and textiles in the west,
iron and steel in the northeast, forestry and timber in the central area and
agriculture along the river deltas-- generates an enormous movement of goods
throughout the country. This places special demands on telecommunications
to aid the flow of information within these regions and between the principal
trading centers of Bombay, Madras, Calcutta and Nagpur. Similarly, the orga-
nization of State Governments, with their close dependence on the Central
Government, generates considerable traffic between the fifteen State capital,
and Delhi.  Except for a few links, the long distance network is heavily over-
loaded and trunk calls are subject to long delays.
Sector Organization
2.04      The organization of the telecommunications sector is illustrated
in Annex 2. P&T operates all public telecommunications facilities in India
and to adjoining countries; overseas services are operated by the Overseas
Communications Service (OCS), a separate government authority. P&T is a
government department under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Informatioa,
Broadcasting and Communications. It is controlled by a Board comprised of
the six senior executives of the P&T directorate and chaired by the Director
General, who also holds the rank of Secretary in the Ministry. Only the
Minister for Communications, the Minister of State for P&T, and the Finance
Minister (to whom the finance member of the Board has some direct responsibil-
ity) are interposed between the P&T Board and the Cabinet. The Department
therefore has adequate autonomy in policy formulation and day-to-day operaSicris
although its finances are subject to government control, with receipts paid
into a consolidated revenue account, and both capital and operating funds
coming from the Government Budget.
2.05      Nearly 70% of telecommunications plant for P&T is manufactured by
three government factories -- Indian Telephone Industries Limited (ITI),
Hindustan Teleprinters Limited (HTL), and Hindustan Cables Limited (HCL)



and the P&T workshops. The factories are separate entities, with independeut
Boards of Directors.  ITI and HTL are responsible to Government through tLe
Ministry of Information, Broadcasting and Communications while HCL reports
through the Hinistry of Industrial Development, Internal Trade and Compaxy
Affairs.
2.06      In May 1970 the Administrative Reforms Commission published its
report on Posts and Telegraphs, which is now under consideration by Govern-
ment. Its recommendations include the retention of P&T as a Government
Department, operating on commercial lines; the question of separation of
posts and telecommunications would be reviewed at a later date when the pace
and intensity of development may outweigh the present balance of argument
favoring administrative unity. This is acceptable to the Association.
P&T Operatio-ns
2.07      P&T has a strong headquarters organization, located in New Delhi.
Telecommunications in eight of the largest cities are controlled by District
telephone managers responsible for design, construction and operation   Foi
the remainder of the country there are 15 large regions known as Circles,
each under the control of a Postmaster General with responsibility for postL,_
savings-bank and telecommunications.  Four functional units deal with exchare-:t
construction, and construction and operation of long distance services.
2.08      The ARC has recommended grouping Circle telecommunication functicin
into four Zones with headquarters at New Delhi, Bombay, aldras and CalcUtta,
to carry out integrated planning, installation of major wiorks and maintenarce
of long distance lines within Zonal areas. This would help reduce present
problems in overall planning, control and coordination resulting from the
large number of territorial and functional units, each reporting independent-
ly to New Delhi, and is in line with the views expressed by the last appraiJl
mission. At the time of the last Bank/IDA lending operation, agreement was
obtained that GOI will consult in advance with the Association about any clrii
for the reorganization of the Telecommunications Branch. This also applies
under the new credit agreement; in addition it was agreed, during negotia-
tions, that Government's view on regional reorganization will be made knoTsn
by September 30, 1971 or such other date as shall be mutually agreed.
2.09      Technical management of the department is sound, and there is no
shortage of well qualified and competent people. MIajor technical decisiorns
over the last decade, such as standardization of crossbar switching equip-
ment and the inauguration of a broad-band national trunk system, were ad-
vanced in terms of development at that time, and have been proved correct
in the intervening years. A sizable P&T research establishment contributes
materially to the development and modification of telecommunications systems
to best suit India's particular needs.



- 4 -
2.10      In contrast, general adninistration of the Department is not so
impressive; some cumbersome practices are evident, compounded by the high
degree of centralization in New Delhi, and the organization tends to be
rather authoritarian. There is a general policy to move senior staff every
few years to broaden experience and also to prevent anyone having a
"vested interest" in a particular job. While it has some advantages,
rigid application of this policy has caused some disruption at a time of
rapid growth when continuity is most important. This is now recognrized,
and staff rotations will be made more selectively. Action to improve the
other matters is in hand on several fronts, particularly in relation to
financial reorganization. (See Section 5, 'Finances'.)
2.11      In December 1970 the Telecommunications Branch had a staff of
nearly 150,000, including some 12,000 in telegraphs and 7,000 in the P&T
workshops. Wages are low and because of the labor surplus in India, it has
not been the policy of government to restrict the intake of personnel. The
present level of staffing is high, but the 1969 figure of 17.9 staff per
100 DEL's is expected to fall to 17.4 in 1974, (despite a more than doubling
of the long-distance network during this period) because of increased tele-
phone mechanization and installation of more modern plant. Consequently,
the planned rate of increase of staff over the period 1969-74 is not much
more than half the corresponding rate of increase in plant in service.
Annex 3 gives details of estimated staff levels at 1969 and 1974.
Existing Facilities
2.12      Since March 1969, the start of the Fourth Five-Year Plan, the
number of telephone subscribers (DELs) had grown from 810,000 to 950,000
in January 1971. The telephone network now comprises some 2,100 automatic
and 1,600 manual exchanges, with a total installed capacity of 1,161,000
lines. Of these, 910,000 lines (or 78%) are automatic equipment, of which
70,000 are crossbar and the remainder step-by-step equipment. There are
approximately 5,000 Telex services.
2.13      The existing coaxial cables, carrier cables and microwave routes
of the long distance network are shown in the Map which also indicates the
expansion program. Spur routes of low capacity UHF and VHF radio and opon-
wire systems supplement the main routes shown.  Automatic trunk switching
equipment, required for STD, is installed at the Main trunk switching centers
of New Delhi, Bombay and Madras and at the Secondary center of Kanpur. STD
facilities have also been installed on a limited, point-to-point basis at a
number of other centers; overall, about 305, of all long distance calls in
India are subscriber dialed. A new earth station at Arvi. commissioned in
March 1971, now gives international access through the INTELSAT Indian
Ocean satellite, supplemented by HF radio systems.



3. THE PTROGRP4M AND THE PROJECT
3.01      P&T is engaged on an extensive program for expansion of tele-
communications services during India's Fourth Five-year plan period, Apr-iJ
1969 - M'arch 1974. This program constitutes the Project for Bank/IDA
financing. The initial phase (approximately three years) of the project
is being assisted by Loan 615-IN/Credit 153-IN (US$55 million), and a fur-
ther Credit is now proposed to complete the financing plan; at the time of
the last Loan/Credit, it was envisaged that there would be further lending
to complete the program, subject to satisfactory progress being made.
Project Targets
3.02      Details of the project service targets are shown in Annex 4.  The
principal targets are:
(i) An increase in the capacity of local telephone networks to
permit connection of an additional 540,000 DEL's.
(ii) Extension of long distance networks by radio, cable and
open wire transmission systems providing an additional
26,000 trunk channels. About 7,500 km of coaxial cable
and 12,000 km of microwave radio routes are included in
this large program of trunk network expansion. The major
links of the trunk network (existing and proposed) are
shown on the Niap.
(iii)  Extension of trunk exchange capacity and installation of neTW
automatic trunk exchanges at 18 locations. This will permit
the growth of subscriber trunk dialing (STD) from the pre-
sent level of 30% of all trunk calls, to about 55% by 1974.
(iv) Expansion of existing Telex exchanges and installation of
new exchanges to permit an increase of 9,300 Telex services.
Project Costs
3.03      The project cost of Rs4,888 million or US$652 million equivalent
includes foreign exchange of $168 million. The cost breakdown by years
and service category is shown in Annex 5 and summarized as follows:
Rs Million               US$ M4illion
Tocal Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   %
Local Exchange Syrstems    1,714     764   2,478    229.3   101.9   330.5   51
Long Distance Systems        795     421   1,217    106       56.2   162.2   24
Open Wires, Telex
and Telegraph             595       66     661     79.3      8.8    88.1   ,L
Land, Buildings
and Miscellaneous         521       11     532     69.4      1.5    70.9  11
TOTAL          3,625   1,262   4,888    483.3   168.4   651.7  100
___m______



- 6 -
3.o4      At the time of approval of the existing Loan/Credit, the project
cost was estimated at US$624 million, including $155.5 million foreign
exchange. The foreign exchange has increased by approximately $13 million
due to the need for increased imports to offset shortfalls in local produc-
tion (paras. 3.13-15). The estimated project cost has increased by US$28
million due to customs duty, insurance and freight on these additional
imports (approximately US$12 million) and because of expected wage increases
(see para. 3.09).
Progress Under Existing Loan 615-IN/Credit 153-IN
3.05      The Bank/IDA funds were intended to cover about three years imports
of finished goods and the foreign exchange content (in the form of raw mate-
rials and components) of about two years' production by the government fac-
tories. Due to shortfalls in factory production (see paras. 3.13-15) the
Bank/IDA funds will now provide nearly three years of factory materials and
components. Annex 6 indicates the actual and estimated disbursements under
this Loan/Credit, which are expected to be fully disbursed before the closure
date of December 1972.
3.06      Connection of new telephone services during the first two years
of the project period exceeded targets by 10% but the exchange installation
program is slipping due to late deliveries of crossbar switching equipment
from ITI. The increase in long distance circuits was about 25% below target,
also due to late deliveries of coaxial cable from HCL and imported equipment.
As a result of the supply difficulties, the effects of which will carry over
into the next few years, the five-year targets have been adjusted to levels
generally about 10% lower than the original targets. With the adjusted
targets given in Annex 4, the project is progressing satisfactorily.
The Proposed Credit
3.07      With procurement lead times of up to two years, foreign exchange
for the remainder of the five-year program is required now in order to allow
a smooth tendering, ordering and delivery process without holding up the
project. There would therefore be a time overlap between the existing
Loan/Credit and the proposed Credit of US$78 million.
Items for IDA Financing
3.08      The Credit would provide US$26 million for goods directly imported
by P&T and US$52 million for the foreign exchange content of local production
by the factories, representing imported materials and components. Shown
below are the amounts under various categories. Further details of these
items and the approximate breakdown of raw materials among the three factories
are given in Annex 7.



-7-
(a)  P&T Imports
US$ Million
(i)  Local exchange systems - (RAX's, PCM & Misc.)       4.3
(ii)  Coaxial cable, copper wire, and cable
accessories                                      13.3
(iii)  Radio systems and test equipment                    3.4
(iv) P&T Workshop - materials and machine
replacements                                      4.0
(v) Research, training and testing equipment             1.0
Total           $ 2614
(b) P&T Purchases from Government Factories
(i)  Foreign exchange content of normal production-
raw materials and components                     48.2
(ii) Imported components for trunk exchange (TAX)
production                                        3.7
(iii)  Consultants                                         - $2
$ 52M
TOTAL                $ 7MM
Contingencies
3.09      Telecommunications development is a continuous process which occurs
through the installation and augmentation of plant at thousands of locations
in any program year; an overall increase in program cost therefore results in
a corresponding time deferment in achieving the physical targets. Except for
a few of the largest installations such as trunk exchanges and microwave
radio systems, which are individually costed, estimates are based on a for-
ward projection of unit-costs for the various types of installation. Because
of the variety and wide spread of telecommunication works, the overall risk
is negligible and no explicit contingency allowances are included in the
project cost estimates. There are however, certain implicit contingencies:
(a) Included in the amount of US$48.2 million for factory produc-
tion (item b (i)) is US$3.4 million for overseas purchase of
strategic raw materials. These stocks represent a quantity
contingency against the rejection or non-delivery of indige-
nous items essential to factory production.
(b) An overall contingency in local currency costs of approxi-
mately Rs200 million (6%) is contained in the project esti-
mates. This covers (1) an expected wage increase in 1971,
estimated to cost approximately Rs150 million over the final
three years of the project and additional to annual cost-of-
living adjustments included; the overall increase in wage
levels averages about 619 per annum; (2) a 5% contingency
(approximately Rs5O million) in estimating the quantity of
subscriber cables to be laid; thousands of small to medium
capacity cables are installed each year in a continuous con-
struction program, hence precise quantities are not known
until each task is undertaken.



Procurement
3.10      All IDA-financed imports by P&T will be subject to international
competitive bidding.  Equipnent manufactured locally will be purchased by
P&T from the government factories or obtained from its own workshops. Ex-
cept for trunk automatic exchanges (TAX's are a special case discussed
below) and for proprietary components available from only one supplier and
amounting to less than 7% of the value of factory imports, all materials
and components imported for local manufacture will be obtained through
international competition, including tendering and purchases from the inter-
national metal markets.
3.11      Specialized proprietary components for TAX's, representing about
US$3.7 million or 60% of the value of these exchanges, will be imported under
reserve procurement. ITI will complete the assembly and trunk exchange manu-
facture using locally produced crossbar switches. TAX's are key installations
in the P&T program for trunk network expansion and for further introduction
of subscriber trunk dialing (STD). TAX manufacture being at an early stage,
not all required components are produced locally; about $2.4 million or 40%
of the value of the TAX's ($6.1 million) will be local added value. The
price of the finished equipment is competitive with overseas prices.
3.12      Annex 8 gives some details of the background and operations of the
three government factories -- ITI, HCL and HTL -- which GOI has established
within the past 20 years in order to procure its expanding telecommunications
requirements at least-cost and conserve foreign exchange. The most recent
factory, HTL, continues to do well; over the past two years it has raised
its level of profit, lowered the prices of teleprinter products, increased
the local content of production, and strengthened its export earnings.
3.13      Intense labor problems continue to retard production at the
Hindustan Cables Limited (HCL) factory in West Bengal, where output is
unlikely to exceed 60% of capacity for the next few years. Consequently,
there will have to be large imports of cables and wire of which US$13
million would be financed by the proposed IDA Credit. Despite the reduced
output, the quality and price of HOL cables are highly competitive in the
world market.
3.14      ITI is the oldest and by far the largest of the three companies;
it manufactures practically all of India's requirements for switching and
transmission equipment and an increasing percentage of microwave radio equip-
ment. During the last two years ITI has attempted to increase rapidly its
output of crossbar switching equipment. Crossbar is a modern switching
system, now adopted for development in India; the first crossbar lines were
produced by ITI in 1967. With the increasing scale of crossbar production
and the simultaneous attempt to produce locally more of the components re-
quired, problemis have been encountered resulting in an imibalance in crossbar
output, whereby many installations cannot be commissioned because of non-
delivery of a few essential items. These problems stem from production-
planning and procurement difficulties, including the high rate of rejection



of indigenously produced raw materials such as steal sections, brass sheets,
etc. and the difficulties of getting rapid supply from an alternative source.
Nearly 2,000 items of raw materials and components are needed for crossbar
manufacture.
3.15      Recommended measures to ensure the timely supply of crossbar equip-
ment from ITI were discussed by the mission with the Director General, P&T,
and the top management of ITI. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that action is being taken as outlined in Annex 9. Nweasures include employ-
ment of production and material procurement consultants, strengthening
liaison between P&T and ITI, the creation of contingency stocks of strategic
materials and components, and a streamlining of government procedures
to facilitate urgent purchases by ITI.
3.16      Despite these difficulties in crossbar production, which is still
in the early years, the overall price and quality of ITI's products are
competitive in world markets.
Disbursement
3.17      Disbursement of IDA funds would be made against CIF cost incurred
directly by P&T in importing, for the purpose of the project, equipment and
cables, and materials for manufacture in their workshops.
3.18      For materials and components imported by the government factories,
it is proposed, as with the current Loan/Credit, to disburse against invoices
to P&T a pre-determined percentage representing the average foreign exchange
content of the product mix supplied from each factory for the remainder of
the project. These were estimated during the appraisal mission to be:
- for HTL:  900 of selling price - this is a reduction from the previous
figure of 13%., as a result of the increased local content of production.
- for HCL: 55% of selling price, the percentage currently applied.
- for ITI: 25% of selling price (except for TAX's) - this is an increase
of 5% due to the high rate of rejection of indigenous material experienced
in the past two years, requiring additional imports of strategic items to
ensure continuity of production.
- for TAX's: 60% of selling price - this is a new type of exchange for
which the full range of components and piece parts are not yet produced
locally (para. 3.11).
These percentages will be subject to review if substantial changes occur
in material prices or exchange rates during the period covered.
3.19      Because of the long lead times required, P&T will need to commence
procurement action for coaxial cables, copper weld wire, TAX equipment and
microwave antennas to a total of US$17 million, in advance of credit approval
but no commitment or retroactive financing will be involved.



- 10 -
3.20      A schedule of estimated quarterly disbursements under the proposed
credit is shown in Annex 10. The size of the current expansion program is
limited partly by the funds available and will not meet all the forecast
demand for services (see para. 4.03). Therefore, any unused credit balance
could be applied, after consultation with the Association, to the purchase
of additional goods similar to those procured under the credit, provided
that local physical resources are adequate to ensure their effective use.
Project Execution
3.21      Installation and maintenance of all telecommunication equipment is
by P&T. They have a large and technically competent staff and comprehensive
training schemes ensure an adequate supply of technicians and lines staff for
future maintenance of project installations. Buildings and associated civil
works are constructed by contractors after public tenders advertised locally.
3.22      Delays in the supply of cables and switching equipment from the local
factories and in overseas procurement of coaxial and microwave equipment
(see paras. 3.05 - 3.06) have caused bunching in the 1971/72 and 1972/73
years of the Program. Nevertheless much preparatory work (such as access
roads, buildings and towers for microwave systems) can proceed and the equip-
ment installations should be completed within the project time frane. Final
acceptance testing and commissioning may delay the "fin-service" date of some
trunk network installations, but not more than six months beyond the end of
the project period.



- 11 -
4. PROJECT JUJSTIFICATION
4.01      The primary issues in the justification of a telecommunications
project are whether its component services are in line with the real
priorities, and whether the project design represents the least-cost
solution in meeting the prescribed portion of demand at an adequate
standard of service.
4.02      The financial estimates originally submitted by P&T for the
Fourth Five-Year Plan aimed at reducing over a long period the 500,000
waiting applicants for service, but the funds allocated by Government
were insufficient and P&T therefore was forced to modify its original
program. Priority was wisely given to the network traffic-carrying plant
(including long-distance facilities) to restore a balance between the number
of subscribers connected and the quantity of plant provided for their use, so
that the network will operate efficiently.
Market Demand
4.03      Provision of local telephone services constitutes over 60% of the
project investment. Annex 11 shows graphically the past and forecast recorded
demand for telephone services and lines connected. About a year ago P&T
called for reregistration and payment of a fee of RslO from all outstanding
applicants, in order to determine an up-to-date picture of unsatisfied demand.
The review is not yet completed but the figure of waiting applicants is already
approaching 500,000. Consequently, there are dela-ys of many years in providing
service, even for applicants under the CYT (own your telephone) scheme who are
given priority and pay a large capital deposit on connection, equivalent to
US$400 in the big cities. The extreme shortage of telephones is a severe
impediment to government, trade and commerce and results in excessive usage
of existing facilities, with frequent overloading of the network and degradation
of service. The number of purely private telephones is negligible. Despite
the connection of 540,000 new DEL's during the project period, the estimated
number of waiting applicants at March 1974 will have increased to approximately
one million. Further increases over the next decade seem inescapable; even
if additional funds were available, it is unlikely that any telecommunications
organization could successfully mount a program of expansion faster than the
present rate in which plant assets are doubling every five years.
4.04      Long-distance services account for approximately 30% of the project
iLvestment. A serious shortage of long-distance circuits is causing long
delays in service on all but a few of the major routes and is restricting
further introduction of subscriber trunk dialing. An important objective of
the program is the rehabilitation of the existing trunk network as well as the
provision of new long distance services.
Least-Cost Solution
4.05      Selecting the least-cost solution to meet prescribed portions of the
forecast demands for service involves: (i) making the correct technological
decisions when planning the basic network structure, and (ii) following an



- 12 -
optimizing path with respect to the design, dimensioning and timing of the
thousands of installations carried out annually as part of the continuous
development process. For the larger projects, this is achieved by making
present-value studies of engineering alternatives over a period of typically
20 years, using an appropriate discount rate. For the remaining smaller
projects, the principle is the same but generalized solutions are obtained
for the various classes of plant to guide decisions about the particular
type and size of plant to be selected.
4.06      The fundamental decisions determining the network structure over
the next decade or so were made in the early 1960's and include the national
numbering, charging, switching and transmission plans, the choice of crossbar
equipment as the national standard and the pattern of broad-band transmission
systems for the long distance networks. These decisions were soundly based
and provide the framework for the most economic overall development.
4.07      There is evidence that the design periodsl/, laid down for planning
purposes as standard for various sizes of subscriber cable, have been rather
too long for optimum economic development in the light of capital shortages
and the low ratio of labor to capital costs in India. However, because of
the large backlog of applicants,leading quickly to full utilization, the
penalty has been minimal.  Instructions are now being prepared to reduce the
design periods--for example, from eight years to five years for secondary
distribution cables. Otherwise the development course determined by current
planning practices is sound and will result in a least-cost network.
Internal Financial Rate of Return and Economic Benefits
4.08      The improved communications service resulting from the project will
confer benefits on all sectors of economic activity and help achieve the
Government's objective of further decentralization of industry. Improved
service will facilitate business information flow and greatly reduce economic
losses due to present telecommunication delays. These benefits are extremely
difficult to quantify but are nevertheless important. A measure of one aspect
of the economic worth of telephone service is given by the extent of current
deposits made by existing subscribers under the OYT schemes which stands at
Rs273 million (US$36.4 million), or on an average US$300-400 each subscriber.
4.09      The internal financial rate of return for the project is assessed
as 16% at current prices. (See Annex 12,) The figure of 16% is judged to
be consistent with that expected from a project which embraces a five-year
time slice of all telecommunication activities - the less remunerative as
well as the more remunerative - and is acceptable. The internal financial
rate of return is judged to give a minimum measure of the project's internal
economic return mainly because revenues plainly do not include all user
benefits as demonstrated by the extent of unsatisfied OYT demand, estimated
as a minimum of 100,000 by 1974.
1/ The time over which a newly installed item of plant reaches full utiliza-
tion.



- 13 -
5. FINANCES
Financial Reorganization - Telecomuinications Branch
5.01      P&T is proceeding satisfactorily with its financial reorganiza-
tion according to agreement reached on specific issues and timetables
during the negotiations for Loan 615-IN/Credit 153-IN. These undertakings
will be continued under the new credit agreement. Important steps toward
establishing commercial accounting for the Telecommunications Branch have
been taken that closely follow the recommendations of its consultants,
Peat, Marwick, Miitchell & Co. of London, wiho reviewed the Branch's account-
ing organization and procedures. Detailed information is given in Annex 13.
Two major changes already made are the transfer of the accounting function
to P&T from the Comptroller and Auditor General, completed on schedule as
of September 1, 1970, and the preparation of pro forma commercial accounts,
which have been audited by the C&AG and will soon be presented to Parliament.
5.02      The changes under way will help establish a firm basis for the
Telecommunications Branch to make a start in operating along commercial
lines. It should be recognized, however, that it may take a number of
years for commercial accounting principles to become meaningful and be
universally accepted and fully used on a day-to-day basis.
5.03      As agreed with the Association during negotiations for the last
lending operation, P&T has appointed consultants, satisfactory to the
Association, to help set up an effective stock control system and look
into the feasibility of establishing a career service or similar form of
organization for the stores operation within P&T. This work has been
assigned to the Consultancy Division of the Administrative Staff College
of Hyderabad, India, with the participation of P&T's former consultants,
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. P&T has decided to establish a staff
experienced in modern stock control methods. This would be timed to
coincide with implementation of the Staff College Consultants' recom-
mendations on an effective stock control system. Agreement to this
effect was obtained during negotiations.
5.04      P&T's latest finalized accounts are for fiscal year ending March
31, 1969. It has taken longer for P&T to produce the accounts than might
otherwise have been the case, because the Telecommunications Branch was
in the midst of the accounting function transfer and this is the first
time that accounts on an accrual basis have been prepared and submitted
for audit. To speed up the future preparation of accounts, P&T plans to
calculate the revenues and expenses and to separate the postal and telecom-
munications accounts on a monthly rather than an annual basis, now that
the Branch's accounting function rests with P&T. Double entry bookkeeping
methods will be established and working at division level and above by
December 1, 1971.



- 14 -
Audit
5.05      Under the Constitution, the Comptroller and Auditor General is
responsible for auditing government accounts. He discharges his audit
responsibilities in P&T through one of his senior officers, the Accountant
General, P&T. As the C&AG is no longer responsible for maintaining the
accounts of the Telecommunications Branch, the independence of the audit
should be assured. In addition to the audit of the cash accounts, there
will be an audit of the commercial accounts by the C&AG.
5.06      Due to the Government audit procedure, it has not been possible
to obtain audited P&T accounts in less than nine months after the close
of the fiscal year. During negotiations it was agreed that unaudited
commercial accounts would be made available no later than four months
after the close of the fiscal year and that P&T will make every effort
to begin making the audited commercial accounts available within six
months after the close of the fiscal year. It was also agreed that the
audited cash accounts would be submitted promptly as available.
Tariffs
5.07      Forecasts show that, based on the pro forma commercial accounts,
the present tariff level is adequate to continue providing a level of
earnings sufficient to meet the minimum rate of return of 11% required
under the present loan/credit agreement and to finance a reasonable portion
of capital expansion. During negotiations it was agreed that the require-
ment will continue under the proposed credit. The valuation of fixed assets
is covered by the agreement described in paragraph 5.13.
5.08      There are presently no regulations establishing a specific tariff
policy, but a tariff review is made annually and considers the cost of pro-
viding service and revenue requirements. The overall tariff structure is
reasonable, with long distance and local call rates comparable to those in
more developed countries. Proposals for tariff changes are formulated
within P&T and reviewed and approved by the P&T Board. They are required
to be placed before both Houses of Parliament for a period of 30 days.
Normally there is little delay in effecting changes. In the past five
years there have been tariff increases for all the main services. A
summary of the tariffs is given in Annex 14.
Pro Forma Financial Statements
5.09      Although the Telecommunications Branch is in the process of
setting up commercial accounts and an operating statement/balance sheet
has been prepared for the first time, covering one year's operations
(fiscal year ending March 31, 1969), certain refinements need to be made
before these statements show the Branch's complete financial picture on a
commercial basis. In order to show such a picture, this report gives a



- 15 -
pro forma commercial presentation of the past, present and forecast finan-
cial operations and position of the Telecommunications Branch, including
balance sheets (Annex 15), statements of income (Annex 16), and sources
and applications of funds (Annex 17).
Present Financial Position
5.10      The telecommunications and postal accounts are kept separately,
hence all financial data in this report apply only to the Telecommunications
Branch.
5.11      The finances of P&T, as a government department, form part of
the National Budget. All of its funds are paid into the Central Govern-
ment's consolidated fund and made available to P&T through appropriation
by action of Parliament. Funds made available by GOI to the Telecommmni-
cations Branch in excess of those from internal sources are called "capital-
at-charge" and consist of Central Government contributions and foreign ex-
change loans, such as the current Bank loan/IDA credit, borrowed by GOI on
behalf of the Branch. GOI is responsible for servicing the debt on these
loans. 'Capital-at-charge'! is treated as a non-repayable loan to P&T on
which annual interest at between 4-3/4% and 6-3/4% is paid, depending on
the year involved.
5.12      Using assumptions contained in paragraphs 9 and 10 of Annex 15,
a sunmary of the pro forma balance sheet of the Telecommunications Branch,
as of March 31, 1970, is given below.
Rs Million
ASSETS
Net fixed assets                                          3,959
Net current assets                                          338
Deferred charges                                            170
Total Assets
LIABILITIES
Equity - Capital-at-charge representing
Central Government contrlbutions              2,283
Reserves                                        1 136
Total Equity
Long-term debt - Government loan (current maturity)          79
Capital-at-charge representing
foreign exchange loans                   780
Total long-term debt less current maturities           780
Subscriber deposits                                          34
Deferred credit                                             234
Total Liabilities                                   4,467



- 16 -
5.13      With the introduction of commercial accounting concepts and the
stipulations of a rate of return covenant, the value of the plant will
attain a basic significance and therefore should be reviewed from time to
time to determine whether adjustments should be made on account of varia-
tions in the applicable price levels in the economy. During the negotia-
tions for the last Bank/IDA lending operation, it was agreed that, whenever
appropriate and in any case at least every five years, P&T would review
the value of the Telecommunications Branch's net fixed assets in operation
to determine whether adjustments are required, and appropriate adjustments
in the value of net fixed assets in the commercial accounts would be made
to the extent agreed between GOI and the Bank. The effects of a change in
the stated value of P&T's fixed assets on the rate of return calculations
will be carefully assessed whenever such a change is made. This arrange-
ment will continue under the proposed credit.
Past Earnings
5.14      Pro forma statements of income for the past six years ending
March 31 are in Annex 16. The rate of return over the six-year period
ranged between 11.3% and 13.4% and the operating ratio varied between 68%
and 73%, which is satisfactory. On a notional basis, after deducting debt
service from internally generated funds and including Postal Branch trans-
fers as a requirement of funds (averaging about 20% of the Teleconmunica-
tion's Branch's net operating income), net internal cash generation was
equivalent to 51% of construction costs and working capital increase as
shown below:
1965/66 - 1970/71
Rs -Million    %
Internally generated funds                       2,d75        77
Less:  debt service                                994        26
Net internal cash generation                1,1831      7T1/
Central Government contributions                   916        24
OYT payments                                       161         4
Subscriber deposits                                 52         1
Borrowings                                         742        20
3, 722      55
Cost of construction plus working
capital increase                               3,367        90
Postal Branch transfers                            385        10
Future Finances - Financing Plan
5.15      On a sirilar notional basis, the net internal cash generation
over the five-year period of the project would be equivalent to 43% of
construction costs and working capital increase as shown below:
1/ See footnote, page 17



- 17 -
1969/70-- 1973/74-i.
Rs      US$
Million  Million    %
Sources
Internal cash generation                         3,549     473      65
Less: debt service                               1 211     161       22
Net internal cash                                        3 w 7  12
Central Govt. contribution                       1,572     209       29
OYT payments                                       189      25        3
Subscriber deposits                                 87      12        1
Borrowings:
IBRD Loan 615-IN )
IDA Credit 153-IN)                               413      55        8
Canadian Credit                                  263      35        5
Other foreign exchange loans                       5       1       -
Proposed IDA credit                              585      78       11
Total Sources                          5,452      757     100
Requirements
Capital construction                             4,888     652       90
Working capital increase                           330       44       6
Transfers to Postal Branch                         234      31        4
Total requirements                     5,452      727     1U
Borrowings would amount to 24% and OYT payments and subscriber deposits, 4%.
Government would contribute 29%. In fact, the total requirements of the
Telecommunications Branch would be met by specific Government appropriations
under the Parliamentary Grant System, as in previous years.
5.16      Postal Branch transfers are assumed to continue in line with past
practice (see page 3 of Annex 16). During the negotiations for the last
Bank/IDA lending operation, it was agreed that funds of the Telecommunica-
tions Branch will not be diverted to the Postal Branch, or for any other
use, unless all funds required for carrying out the proposed project are
available to the Branch.  It was also agreed that, for purposes of cal-
culating the interest on capital-at-charge, the amount of interest payable
wJill be computed after reducing the capital-at-charge by the amount of any
funds diverted to the Postal Branch. These agreements will remain in
effect under the proposed credit.
1/  The pro forma commercial accounts in this report show net internal cash
generation as a percentage of total requirements after including postal
transfers as a requirement of funds, but without including amortization
of foreign exchange debt, which is the responsibility of Government
(paragraph 5.11).  If amortization at Bank terms had been included, the
percentage would be reduced by about 2%. The relatively small amount
of debt service is due primarily to the large amount of notional equity
contributed by Government.



- 18 -
5.17     Borrowings by GOI for the P&T project are shown in paragraph 12
of Annex 15. The financial statements in this report show the Tele-
communications Branch paying annual interest at about 7% on the total
amount of GOI's borrowings for the F&T program, which form part of P&T's
capital-at-charge. The amount of interest on capital-at-charge paid by
the Branch would cover with a considerable margin the actual debt service
payable by Government.
Future Operating Results
5.18     Forecast statements of income through fiscal year 1975/76 are in
Annex 16, along with notes and assumrptions. Total operating revenues over
the seven-year period, beginning with the first year of the project, show
an average annual rate of growth of 13.6%, with telephone revenue estimated
to grow at an average annual rate of 14.5%, telegraph at 3% and telex at
27%. Operating expenses, excluding depreciation, provide for an average
annual increase of about 13%.
5.19     The rate of return on average net plant in service is shown to
decline from 13.4% in 1969/70 to 11.1% in 1974/75, the first year follow-
ing completion of the project, and to rise to 11.4% in 1975/76. The oper-
ating ratio varies between 70% and 75% during this period. These are
satisfactory.
Future Financial Position
5.20     Balance sheets as of March 31 for fiscal years through 1975/76
(Annex 15) show that the value of net plant in service is expected to in-
crease by Rs2,620 million -- almost doubling -- during the five-year pro-
ject period. In the following two years net plant in service is expected
to increase by another Rsl,640 million, assuming a continuation of capital
expansion at the same level as in the past. The debt/equity ratio is shown
to be 19/81 in 1969/70, rising to 27/73 in 1974/75 and 1975/76. These
ratios reflect a financing pattern wherein, besides internally generated
funds, the Government would be making substantial contributions which are
treated as capital-at-charge representing equity (see paragraph 9 of
Annex 15).
5.21     Internal cash generation (Annex 17) is estimated to increase from
Rs589 million in 1969/70 to Rs862 million in 1973/74 and to Rsl,179 mil-
lion in 1975/76, covering debt service between 2.6 and 3.5 times during
the forecast period. This is satisfactory. Internal funds less debt
service would amount to about 47% of total requirements during the five-
year project period and about 51% during the seven-year period. This is
a substantial contribution considering that the entity's total net fixed
assets would more than double during the project period and increase by
about 140% over the seven-year period.



- 19 -
6. RECONMENDATIONS
6.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) Consulting in advance with the Association about any plan
for reorganizing the Telecommunications Branch (para. 2.08);
(b) action to be taken to correct imbalances in the crossbar
production from the ITI factory (para. 3.15);
(c) continuation of the financial reorganization (para. 5.01);
(d)  establishment of an experienced staff for the stores
organization (para. 5.03);
(e) audited commercial accounts to be available within a
reasonable period and unaudited commercial accounts
within four months after the close of the fiscal year
(para. 5.06);
(f) tariffs to be maintained to assure a minimum rate of return
of 11% on average net plant in service (para. 5.07).
6.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an
Association Credit of US$78 million for a term of 50 years including a
10-year grace period.
March 30, 1971



ANNEX 1
DIDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTTENT
Telephone Density in a iNumber of Asian Countries
Country          Telephones per
100 Population
Singapore                        5.95
Lebanon                          5.76
China (Republic)                 2.o5
Klalaysia                       1.80
Syria                            1.70
Jordan                           1.62
Korea                            1.60
Iraq                            1.30
Iran                             0.92
Saudi Arabia                     0.62
Ceylon                           O. Li8
Thailand                         0.34
India                            0.20
Pakistan                         0.16
Cambodia                         0.11
From The Worlds Telephones (AT&T Publication),
applies at January 1969



INDIAN POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT                                                           ANNEX2
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT,
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION, BROADCASTING             INTERNAL TRADE
MINISTRY OF FINANCE                                              AND COMMUNICATIONS                      AND COMPANY AFFAIRS
CABINET MINISTER
MINISTER OF STATE
MINGISTER OF STATE           FOR INFORMATION
FOR OCS AND PFT                           I O                                  MINISTRIES
AND BROADCASTING                                - INSRE
,,'  _   Z SECRETARY'^ 
.  OVERSEAS            HINDUSTAN       /EINDIAN                                          HINDUSTAN
6   COMMUNICATIONS       TELEPRINTERS                                   INDUSTRIES            CABLES
|  i   SERVICES               LIMITED                                    LIMITED              LIMITED
I  I                 /                                
DIRECTOR             MANAGING                                  MANAGING              MANAGING
GENERAL              DIRECTOR                                  DIRECTOR              DIRECTOR              OTHER ENTITIES
I I
i ffI                                                CHAIRMAN*                                                         <-  PaT BOARD
I  I  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _          ________                ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
I     MEMBER            ~~~~~~SENIOR      DIRECTOR                             SENIOR
MSENIOER          MEMBER            MEMBER            GENERAL           MB MEMBER                            MEMBER
FINANCE          (TELECOM)         OPERATIONS                         ADMINISTRATION        POSTS            SAVINGS
FINANCE  (TELECOM)         (TELECOM)
-   l    -        I        I                                            I                 I                  I
F/NANCE           PLANING             STAFF                           STAFFSELATIOS         STAFF            BAANK//NG         DIRECTORATE
ACCOUNTS            DESIGN          OPERATIONS                          INFORMATION          MAIL             SAVINGS
AUDIT          CONSTRUCTION       MAI/TENA/CE                       PUBLIC RELATIONS       STAMPS
EFFICIENCr         RESEARCH         MANUFACTURE
PROCUREMENT
(JABALPUR)          (8 LOCATIONS)        (4 LOCATIONS)         (IS LOCATIONS)
CONSTRUCTION          TELEPHONE              REGIONAL               CIRCLE
WORKSHOPS              CENTER               DISTRICTS             CENTERS            HEADQUARTERS             STORES
GENERAL             ADDITIONAL            MANAGER              CONTROLLER           POST MASTER              CHIEF
MANAGER                CHIEF                  OF                   OF                 GENERAL             CONTROLLER
ENGINEER            TELEPHONES            LONG LINES                                                     OPERATIONAL
MANUFACTURE          CONSTRUCTION            DESIGN             CONSTRUCTION             POSrS             PROCUYREMENr              UNITS
CONSTRUCTION           OPERATION             SAVINGS             DISrRIBUrION
|    OPERATION  l                 ||TELECOMMUNICATIONS          ACCOUNTING
* Three positions held by one individual.
IrALICS = Functionl responnwb,Ihhes.
-Secondary line of responsibilIty
JAN 1971                                                                                                                           IBRD - 4356IR)



ANNEX 3
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DF2ARINT
TELECOAiTJLRN ICATIONS BRA1NCH
S'TAFF LEVELS
Estimated as of 31.3.69   Estimated as of 31.3.74
Hiaintenance Const. TotaL inam tenance Uonst. Total
Gazetted Officers
Engineers                                       666                         988
Assistant Engineers                           1,666                       2,324
Non-Gazetted Staff
Ehgineering Supervisors       6,300      295  6,595      13,063     522 13,585
Telephone Inspectors          3,757       -   3,757       5,477      -   5,477
Repeater Stn. Assistants      2,284       -   2,284       9,323      -   9,323
Wireless Operators              500       -     500
Mechanics                     6,931   1,444  8,375       12,802   2,409 15,211
Wiremen                       3,444      385  3,829       7,757      547  8,304
Batterymen                      140       -     140         275       -     275
Telephone Operators          25,049       - 25,049       43,583       -  43,583
Teleph=one hionitors          2,505    -      2,505       4,359      -   4,359
Linemen                      28,935      131 29,066      39,874     215 40,089
Sub Inspectors                5,787       26  5,813       7,975      45  8,020
Line Inspectors                 577        3    580         793        4    797
Cable Jointers                  928       68    996       1,508     112  1,620
Clerical Including Accts.   18,761       392 19,153      33,036     795 40,131
Telegraphists                 6,975       -   6,975       7,693       -   7,693
Telegraph Supvy. Staff        1,426       -   1,426       1,5714     -   1,574
Telegraphmen                   4,718      -   4,718       5,204      -   5,204
Other Staff                  19,118      291 21,409      26,559     733 27,292
145,502                    235,859



INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTM4ENT
Project Servioe Tarqte    8a   eeme   90
AdditonalServces__196_7__9__ 071_     17 at December1 -19730)Toa
Facilities Provided    (actlual)
1. Direct Telephone
Exchange Lines
(thousands)         80       85       100      125       150       540
2. Telephone Sets
(thousands)        102      110       130      162      196        700
3. Exchange Capacity
(thousands)         86       89       102      127      161        565
4. Voice Frequency
Channels commissioned*:
a) Microwave       -         696    1,380    2,052    2,088      6,216
b) VHF/UHF          19        35      410      765       765     1,994
c) Coaxial       1,128    1,608    2,268    1,932    2,904       9,840
d) Cable Carrier   300       312      372      384       420     1,788
e) Open Wire       712       982    1,312    1,512    1,560      6 078
TOTAL         2,159    3,633    5,742    6,645    7,739    25,916
5. Telex Lines            800      450    4,200      810    3,000      9,260
6. VFT (Telegraph
Channels)          828       485      500      400      400      2,610
7. Combined Telegraph
Offices            418       500      500      500       500     2,418
* The percentage of STD will increase from the present level of 30%
of all trunk calls to about 551' in 1974.



INDIA
pCSTS 1i5D TELFIOIJ?FIS i)s-.PAIRT,i'
0?LE9N:IMUNICI.TIOJS RA CH
PROJECT CCSTS
(Rs. million)
1969/70                 1970/71                  1971/72                   1972/73                  1973/74                Total 1969-74
Foreign  Local  Total  Foreign  Local  Total   Foreigl Local  Total   Foreign  Local  Total   Foreign, Local  Total   Foreign  Local  Total
Local Telephone Systems
Switching Equipment                                        96.6                   110.4                    160.7                    215.3                     231.3                    814.3
Cables                                                    O4.9                    105.8!                   476.4                    404.5                     227.5                  1,299.1
Lines                                                      38.9                    29.5'                    32.2                      35.3                     38.5                     174,4
Subscribers equipment                                      33.9                    32.5!                    35.6                      41.3                     47.1                    190.4
Total for 1.             46.5   207.8  254.3    72.7   205.5  276.2    290.0   414.9   704.9    215.3   481.1  696.4    152.9   391.5  544.4   777.4 1,700.81 2,478.2
Lung Distance Systems
T.A. Xs & S.T.D.                                           13.6                    22.6                     13.5                      25.1                     24.4                     99.2
Manual Trunk Exchanges                                     10.1                    11.1                     12.1                      12.8                     13-9.                     60.0
Cable Systems                                             43.8                     45.3                     92.4                     161.5                   1l32.9i                   475.9
Microwave Systems                                          20.8                    27.0                    100.0                     164.6                    109.9                     422.3
VHF/UHF Systems                                                                      -                      131.3                      9.7                      4.3'                     25.3
Open Wire Carrier Systems                                  32.3                    12.9                     27.2                      32.0                     29.6,                    134.0
Total for 2.             18.1   102.5   120.6   22.6    96.3  118.9    79.3   177.2   256.5    168.7   237.0  405.7          92.7   222.3  315.    381.4   835.3T1,216.7
Open Wire & Telegraphs
Open-wire                                                 100.7                    64.7                     90.5                     108.4                     92.1                    456.4
Telegraph Offices                                            .5                      .4                        .4                       .5                        .5                      2.3
Telex equipment                                            39.9                    43.2                     39.8                      39.6                     39.6                     202.
Total for 3.              5.6   135.5  141.1    12.7    95.6  108.3    30.4   100.3   130.7         28.5   120.0  148.5       15.3   116.9  132.2!   92.5   568.3   660.8
Land, Buildings & Others                                                                  L
Land & Buildings                                           64.5                    73.5                     91.0                     126.0                    159.5                     514.5
Research, Training & Testing Equipment                      2.1                      - !                     4.1                       5.6                      5.6                      17.4
Total for 4.                     66.6   66.6       -      73.5   73.5      3.5    91.6    95.1       3.g   127.8  131.6        3.6   161.3' 165.1    11.1   520.8   531.9
PROGRAM TOTALS           70.2   512.4  582.6   108.0   470.9  578.9   403.2   784.o 1,187.2    416.3   965.9 1,82.2    264.7   892.0l1,156.7 1,262.4 3,625.2 4,887.6
January 15, 1971



ANNEX 6
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARWMENT
T ELM0l4UWNICATIONS BRANCH
Disbursement Under Loan 615IN/Credit 153IN as of Feb. 1971
IBRD/IDA               Cumulative Disbursement
Fiscal Year            at End of Quarter US$OOO
and Quarter          Actual               Estimated
1969/70
1st               1,343
2nd              2,998                     -
3rd              6,045 
4th               9,245                    -
1970/71
1st             11,341                     _
2nd             13,223                     -
3rd             16,070                     _
4th                -                     23,600
1971/72
1st                -                     31,900
2nd                -                     33,500
3rd                -                     47,600
4th                -                     52,200
1972/73
1st                                      5h,44o00
2nd                -                     55,000



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2 pages
INDIA
PO6TS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTIENT
TELECOMIMJNICATIONS BRANCH
Items for IDA Financing
Direct Imports by P&T Under Proposed Credit
(i)  Local Exchange Systems                              $
Rural Automatic Exchanges (RAX)                     2.8
Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) systems
(junction carrier systems)                       1.0
3 .7      3.8
(ii) Cables, Wires and Accessories
Coaxial cable                                       9.0
Copper-weld Wire                                    4.0
Cable Terminal Boxes                                0.3
13.3      13.3
(iii)  Radio Systems and Equipment
Microwave Systems (2 Systems)                       0.9
Microwave Test Equipment                            0.8
Antennas & Waveguides                            1.2
UIF and VHF Spur Systems                            0.5
3-        3.4
(iv) P&T Workshop
Raw Materials                                       3.3
Switchboard Plugs and Cables                        0.5
Machine replacements and additions                  0.7
(v) Equipment items for Research,
Testing and Training                             1.0        1.0
US$ 26.0 million
Notes
Radio Systems
The two microwave systems are for international circuits to adjacent
countries: Ceylon - (MaduraL - Columbo); Nepal - (Patna - Birgang). The
microwave testing equipment and the antennas and waveguides will be used on
a number of systems already ordered.
P&T Workshops
The raw materials for the P&T workshops which are largely for manufacture
of various types of manual switchboards, are discussed in Annex 8 (para. 21).
Switchboard plugs and a quantity of switchboard cords have to be imported. The
machine replacements are for obsolete cord braiding and coil winding machines
which are slow and subject to frequent breakdown. Other machinery is for testing
and maintenance and for production of small crossbar PABX's.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2 pages
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Items for IDA financing
Foreign Exchange Content of Factory Production
US$m
HCL
Raw Materials (Mainly copper, lead, paper, steel tapes)             25.0
ITI
Raw materials-  and components
(Includes $3.4 m increase in
strategic production items)            21.2
Consumable production tools and
tool materials                           1.2
22.4
Trunk Exchange Components                   3.7
26.1
Consultants                                 0.1
26.2                     26.2
HTL
Raw materials (Mainly alloy steel, magnetic iron,
and piece parts)                                     0.8
52.O
Note
1/ For principal items, see Annex 8, paragraph 4.



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANICH
NOTES ON THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS IMANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES
Below is summarized information about the three Government factories,
ITI, HTL and HCL, and the P&T Workshops.
Indian Telephone Industries Limited: (ITI)
1.        This factory which commenced operations in 1950 is owned by GOI
(77%), the Mysore State Government (7%) and the two collaborating companies -
Plessey, England (4%) and International Standard Electric Gorporation, U.S.A.
(for Bell Telephone Manufacturing Co., Belgium) (12%) on whose designs
switching equipment is based. Now employing a staff of 13,400, ITI's pro-
duction value in 1969/70 was Rs210 million (equivalent to US$28 million).
The production consists of step-by-step and crossbar switching equipment,
line and cable carrier systems, microwave radio systems, telephones and
numerous lesser items of telecommunication and signalling equipment. P&T
buys over 80% of the factory's output, the balance going to other public-
sector and private users in India and some to export. The factory produc-
tion has been established on the basis of P&T's expansion plans, and ITI
plans to increase productioni facilities and establish satellite factories
for some lines as the requirements of P&T and other users increase and as
more export markets become open to it on the expiry of collaboration agree-
ments.
2.        During the five years of the program, the value of ITI's normal
output to P&T will be US$154 million of which the foreign exchange is $35.5 m
or an average of 23%. Reimbursement of foreign exchange under the existing
Loan/Credit is 20% but this needs to be increased to 25% for the proposed
Credit because of the past few years experience of production difficulties
due to:
i)  high rejection rate of indigenous materials - approximately
12% of all 'lots' of local materials fail to meet specifica-
tions.
ii)  Late delivery and non-delivery of key materials and
components.
iii)  deterioration and breakages of crossbar production tools.
3.        Action being taken includes impcrtation of contingency supplies of
certain strategic materials and crossbar components and re-equipment of
crossbar production tools:



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 5 pages
Strategic raw materials and
components                     3.4
Production tools and
tool materials                 1.3
US$4.7 million
Reimbursement for these purchases will also be included in the percentage
of the value of finished goods delivered to P&T, increasing the reimburse-
ment percentage under the proposed credit to 25%.
4.        The 5-year average reimbursement of 23% compares with a foreign
exchange content of 25% in 1964, which rose to about 40% in 1966 on account
of the Rupee devaluation. The principal items out of many still imported,
are tempered sheets and strips of nickel-silver, phosphor-bronze, brass and
bimetals, moulding powder, tissue paper, fine gauge copper wire, resistance
wire, phenolic laminates, magnets, ferrities, capacitors, transistors,
diodes, klystrons, measuring instruments, and some piece parts for crossbar
manufacture. Procurement of the above items is through international tender-
ing where appropriate and through acceptable alternative procedures such as
the international metal exchange markets. Some proprietary items incorporated
in the design of equipment are available from only one source, and piece
parts are brought from the collaborating firms which were originally selected
on the basis of international competition. In addition to normal output
items, ITI will be producing, during 1972/73 and 1973/74, trunk exchanges
(TAX's) to a value of US$6.1 m, using imported components and relay assem-
blies and locally manufactured crossbar switches. The percentage to be
applied for foreign exchange reimbursement on this equipment is 60%.
5.        Before 1967, the price of equipment supplied to P&T was on a
cost plus 10% basis, but there is now a fixed price agreement between ITI
and P&T which is subject to periodic review. In 1969/70 ITI made a return
of 9.4% on capital employed.
6.        Swiitching equipment accounts for about 45% of the value of P&T's
purchases from ITI. Step-by-step equipment has been locally manufactured
since 1950 and now has a foreign exchange content of only 15%. The selling
price to P&T is about 80% of the lowest CIF prices on the world market.
Crossbar switching equipment will eventually become standard for all instal-
lations, but during the five year program only about 38% of new lines
installed will be crossbar. Crossbar prices to P&T were reviewed in
October 1969 and some items imere reduced by up to 20%. The average cross-
bar price per main exchange line over the 5-year period is about $145.
After deducting the customs due on imported raw materials and components,
this figure is competitive with prices for equivalent switching equipment
available through international competition. Prices on certain lesser used
crossbar items range up to 20% higher than imported equipment but can be
expected to decrease as P&T's annual consumption of these items increases.



ANNEX 8_
Page 3 of rpages
7.        The balance of P&T's purchases from ITI is made up of trans-
mission equipment such as open wire carrier systems, medium capacity coaxial
cable systems, small capacity microwave systems and voice frequency telegraph
systems. The first high capacity microwave systems are also nearing com-
pletion. Detailed equipment design has been by P&T and ITI following inter-
national standards. Prices for all but small production items have proved
to be less than P&T could obtain previously under international competitive
bidding.
8.        Apart from new lines of production such as crossbar equipment,
for which the maximum indigenisation has yet to be reached, it can be said
that overall, ITI's prices to P&T are generally lower than would be expected,
in the Bank's experience, to be tendered C.I.F. in international bidding.
9.        Custom tariffs on imported equipment of this class are in the 60%
to 70% range.
Hindustan Teleprinters Ltd. (HTL)
10.       This factory, which is wholly Government owned, commenced opera-
tions in 1960 under a collaboration agreement with Olivetti of Italy. From
initial assembly only of piece parts, it has now developed manufacture to a
stage of relative independence from the collaborator on whom it relies only
for special tools and a few piece parts amounting to less than 4% of sales
value. Staff currently numbers 1,100 and output in 1969/70 was 5,300 tele-
printers with spares, a six percent increase over the previous year. The
price of teleprinters also decreased from Rs5600 to Rs5300 in this year.
11.       Production is made up of page teleprinters for Telex use, tape
teleprinters for use in P&T's public telegraph system, printing reper-
forators, tape transmitters and other usual ancilliary items. P&T buys
70% of the factory's output, the balance going to other public sector users
in India and to a fast growing export market. Production is kept in line
with the demands for teleprinters. During the 5-year project, P&T will order
machines to the value of Rs126.4 million (US$16.8 million equivalent).
12.       There has been a progressive reduction in the foreign exchange
content of production; during 1969/70 local production of teleprinter motors
was introduced along with other items, representing a saving of Rs818,000
annually in foreign exchange. Reiirbursenent under the existing loan/credit
is 13%o of the value of goods delivered to P&T but for the proposed credit
covering the remainder of the 5-year period, this will be reduced to 9%.
This compares with a foreign content of 50% in 1964. In addition to the
special tools and piece parts which are still obtained from Olivetti, small
quantities of non-standard steel stock and other specialized material con-
tinue to be purchased at least cost from this source, which was originally
settled upon after competitive international tendering, at rates fixed in
1960. For other items, whether i.mported or locally obtained, international
or local tenders as appropriate are called.



ANNEx 8
Page 4 of 5 pages
13.       The company is an efficient production unit which continues to
improve its financial position, paying a 12% dividend in 1970. It has also
secured export orders to various countries including Kuwait, Iran, Ceylon
and Nepal, to a total value of approximately Rs5 million. From recent inter-
national bidding HTL's prices to P&T are below the lowest C.I.F. price at
which any teleprinter could be landed in India. P&T would pay a 50% customs
tariff were it to import teleprinters.
Hindustan Cables Limited (HCL)
14.       This factory, which is wholly Government owned, started operations
in 1954 under a collaboration agreement with Standard Telephones and Cables
Ltd., England. HCL now employs a staff of 2600 and the value of output in
1969/70 was Rs69 million (US$10.1 million equivalent). This is about 20%
below the output of the previous year due to critical labor problems which
are prevalent throughout the state of Bengal where militant union action,
including strikes and go-slow tactics, is causing widespread industrial dis-
ruption. The operation of four politically affiliated and competing unions
within HCL makes it impossible to maintain industrial peace despite a recent
20% wage increase and other concessions. For these reasons management considers
it unlikely that production for the next few years can exceed more than about
60% of the installed plant capacity which was recently doubled - the decision
to increase capacity was made well before the present problems.
15.       A second factory to be constructed over the next few years at
Hyderabad will provide relief in the long term but meanwhile extensive cable
imports are necessary to enable P&M's development program to proceed.
16.       P&T buys all of HCL's production which consists of paper insulated
subscriber cable (approximately 65% by value) coaxial trunk cable (30%) and
plastic insulated cable for internal wiring (5%). A collaboration agreement
exists with Sumitomo of Japan for production by HCL of copper-clad steel wire
for aerial lines, which should commence in 1971. During this year HCL will
also commence production of small capacity coaxial cables and aluminum
sheathed cables for which new production machinery was recently installed.
17.       During the five-year project period the total value of HCL's
output to P&T will be Rs572 million (US$76.3 million). The foreign exchange
content of the cables, which comprises copper, lead, manila paper and fine
gauge steel tapes, is 55% of the sales value, and would amount to Rs31l
million (US$42 million equivalent). This is the same percentage as applied
in 1964., but considering the Rupee devaluation it represents an improvement
in manufacturing efficiency and indigenisation.
18.       Because of the high degree of mechanization in cable manufacture
and also the low wage rates in India, labor represents only about 12% of
the value of output. This means that the labor problems and the consequent
lowering of labor productivity has not had a serious effect on HCL's cable
prices which are highly competitive in the world markets. A comparison of



ANNEX 8
Page 5 Of 5 pages
recent international cable tenders showed that HCL's prices for different sizes
and types range from 5% below the lowest foreign tender (C.I.F. value) to
about 5% above depending upon the numnber of pairs and conductor weight.
Customs tariff on imported cable is 90%. HCL pays approximately 25% in tariffs
on the imported raw materials, all of which are obtained through international
competition.
The P&T Departmental Workshops
19.       The three P&T Workshops manufacture almost entirely for P&T.  Pro-
duction is debited at actual cost including depreciation of production faci-
lities.
For 1969/70, the scope of activity can be summarized as follows:
Value of Output       Staff Employed
Calcutta shop             Es 23.7 million           2,644
Jabalpur slop             Rs 25.3 million           2,371
Bombay shop               Rs 13.1 million           2,000
Total        Es 62.1 million           7,015
20.       The production consists of galvanized tubular steel poles, arms
and line hardware; switchboards, relay racks and power supplies for manual
telephone exchanges, private branch exchanges and long distance exchanges;
coin-in-slot telephones and many miscellaneous items.
21.       In the five year project period, manufactures to the value of
approximately Rs300 million from the workshops are included in P&T's expan-
sion of capital plant. The foreign exchange content of Rs53 million (US$7.0
million equivalent) includes Rs25 million for purchase of zinc, lead, tin,
magnetic iron, copper wire and other production materials; Rs4 million for
switchboard plugs and cables and Rs5 million for replacement of obsolete
cord braiding and coil winding machines and for new machines required for
production of small crossbar PABX's. Procurement is carried out by the
Supplies and Disposals Ministry on behalf of the Workshops and is by full
competitive international tendering.
22.       Direct comparison between the cost of production by the Workshops
and international prices is not generally possible because most of the items
produced have been specially developed for local conditions. For those items
where direct comparison can be made, such as cable distribution cabinets and
terminals recently put into production, prices are below the C.I.F. price of
equivalent items previously imported.



ANNE 9
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
TELECOEMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Measures for Improving Crossbar Production
The followiing measures, reconmended by the mission for improving
the supply of crossbar switching equipment, were discussed and agreed with
the Director General, P&T, and during negotiations it was confirmed that
appropriate action is now being taken on all items.
(i) The employment of production consultants, including a resident
production specialist at the ITI factor-y for the next two years. Because
of the long experience of the Bell Telephone Manufacturing Company, Antwerp,
with crossbar production in India, it is considered that ITI's interests
would best be served by using the resources of this company which can also
draw on the expertise of other Pentaconta crossbar manufacturers of the
International Telephone and Telegraph group.
(ii) A review of the system and procedures for procurement of materials
and components for the production of switching equipment. The Consultative
Services Division of the Hyderabad Administrative Staff College who are pre-
sently engaged in a related study of P&T stores management would, in the
opinion of the mission, be well qualified to handle this assignment. The
College is willing to submit a proposal to ITI as soon as requested.
(iii)  The appointment of the Member (Development) P&T, as a member of
the Board of Directors of ITI. This would bring about the necessary direct
and high-level coordination between P&T and ITI. Coordination committees,
operating at the working level, would continue their activities through
scheduled meetings held at least quarterly.
(iv) A revision of the purchasing agreement between P&T and ITI and
other steps to place responsibility for the achievement of balanced crossbar
production targets more directly with the top management of ITI. Possible
steps could be the inclusion of penalty clauses for non-adherence to agreed
delivery schedules, or the withholding of some percentage of the value of
crossbar equipment items delivered, until final balanced deliveries for the
particular exchange concerned were completed.
(v) Importation of contingency supplies of strategic materials and
components for crossbar production. This should obviate production holdups
due to unforeseen rejection or non-delivery of key material items. The
foreign exchange for these stocks would be considered as forming part of
the cost of production and would qualify for reimbursement under the pro-
posed IDA credit in the normal way, through the percentage applied to the
value of finished goods delivered to P&T.
(vi) A streamlining of government procedures to facilitate urgent pur-
chases of relatively small quantities of materials, components or production
tools.  In discussion with the Director General, Technical Development and
a Finance Ministry representative it was agreed that an advance import license
covering a generic list of materials could be authorized against which
limited emergency purchases could be made.



AiThEX 10
ETDIA ~   ~      _. 
POSTS AND MULMRAPHS DEPAR'31-2T
TELECO'1UIMTICATIONS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements - Proposed Credit
IBRD/IDA                         CtrJ,IU4ATIVE DISBURS2AMT
FISCAL YEAR                         AT E%TD OF QUARTER
& 0QUARTER                               (US$000)
1971/72
Ist                                      200
2nd                                    1,200
3rd                                   6,300
4th                                   12,100
1972/73
1st                                   20,100
2nd                                  32,000
3rd                                  42,9o00
4Itth                                 50., 6o.')03
1973/74
1st                                   58,800
2nd                                  69,300
3rd                                   76,500
4htn                                  78,000



ANNEX 11
INDIA: POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS
RECORDED AND FORECAST TELEPHONE DEMAND
EXCHANGE CAPACITY AND CONNECTED LINES
2.5
#4
01.5                               Hax.
1.                            -- -1,As,
2 .0
EXCHANGE CAPACITY                   *0,0
.5              _ 
,     THIRD PLAN PERIOD                4 FOURTH PLAN PERIOD  l
0
60  61  62  63  64  65  66  67  68  69  70  71  72  73  74
I '         ACTUAL                        > I N   ESTIMATEDED
YEAR ENDING MARCH 31
I BRD-5527



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2pages
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTNT
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Internal Financial Rate of Returm on the Project
1.        The capital cost of the Project includes provisions for con-
tingencies, but excludes the amount of related customs duties. A
residual value is assumed in connection with the forward provision of
land and buildings. It is assumed that the assets under the Project
would have a life span of 22 years, including the five-year construction
period.
2.        The table below presents the net cash flow attributable to the
Project which derives from the additional revenues produced by the
Project, less the capital cost and attributable operating expenses, not
including depreciation. The discount rate which equates present worth
of the capital expenditure on the new facilities to the present worth
of the net revenues is 15.9% at current price levels. This return is
judged to be consistent with that expected from a project which embraces
over a five-year period all telecommunication activities of P&T--the
less remunerative as well as the more remunerative--and is acceptable.
The internal financial rate of return gives a minimum measure of the
project's internal economic return in that revenues do not include all
economic benefits as demonstrated by the extent of unsatisfied OYT
demand (estimated at a minimum of 100,000 by 1974) where subscribers
are prepared to pay Rs 2,500 - Rs 3,000 (US$333 - $400) for service.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2 pages
(Rs Million)
Revenue     Additional
Capital     Residual   Attributable   Operating    Net
No.    Year  Investment    Value        to Project   EMenses    Flow
1     1969/70    565           _            192          69       -442
2     1970/71    539           -            377         148       -310
3    1971/72     939           -            575         236       -600
4     1972/73   1,153          -            761         343       -735
5     1973/74   1 ,o56         -          1 ,003        473       -526
6    1974/75      -            -          1,037         473        564
7    1975/76      -            -          1,076         473        603
8     1976/77     -            -          1,076         473        603
9     1977/78      -           -          1,076         473        603
10    1978/79      -            -          1,076         473        603
11     1979/80      -           -          1,076         473        603
12    1980/81      -            -          1,076         473        603
13     1981/82     -            -          1,076         473        603
14     1982/83     -            -          1,076         473        603
15    1983/84       -           -          1,076         473        603
16    1984/85      -            -          1,076         473        603
17    1985/86       -           -          1,076         473        603
18     1986/87     -            -          1,076         473        603
19     1987/88     -            -          1,076         473        603
20    1988/89      -            -          1,076         473        603
21     1989/90     -            -          1,076         473        603
22    1990/91      -           177         1,076         473        780



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
TELDCMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Financial Reorganization
A. BACKGRCND
The finances of the Telecommunications Branch, as part of B&T's
finances, form part of the national budget and are subject to control of
the parliamentary grant system (see below). Its accounts have been
primarily a record of cash receipts and payments; no balance sheet or
profit and loss statement had been prepared. Most of P&T's accounting
function was carried out by an outside body, the Comptroller and Auditor
General's Department. Consequently, whatever accounting information was
received by the DLrectorate of P&T was either insufficient or too late
for any prompt appropriate action to be taken.
The Government of India agreed with IDA in September 1962 to
employ consultants to assist in reviewing the accounting procedures of
the Telecommunications Branch. The firm of Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
was retained in July 1964 and they submitted their report in May 1965.
The main recommendations contained therein were the establishment of an
accounting staff with internal controls and audit within and under
control of the P&T, and the reorganization of the existing accounting
system along commercial lines. Both recommendations were accepted in
principle by the Government of India. A Presidential Order dated
March 1, 1968, provided for the separation of the accounts of the Tele-
communications Branch from the Comptroller and Auditor General.
B. PARLIAMENTARY GRANT SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTING AS IT RELATES TO P&T
Traditionally, a parliamentary grant system of accounting is
designed for Government departments financed out of a general pool of
Government revenue. The primary purpose is to ensure that no money is
spent contrary to the intention of the legislature. This places the
emphasis on the control of cash with little regard for operating results.
Under the parliamentary grant system, P&T's expenditures
require sanction by the Ministry of Finance, and examination by the
Comptroller and Auditor General. Parliamentary control is global with-
out a basis for interference into P&T's day-to-day operations, and is
limited to three basic votes: (i) P&T working expenses including petty
works; (ii) dividend to, and repayment of loans from, general reserves
and appropriation to reserve funds; (iii) capital outlay (not met from
revenue). Within each of the three categories, the P&T Board, in con-
junction with the Ministry of Finance (through the Member Finance), has
considerable powers to reallocate funds between headings and sub-headings
without specific parliamentary approval.



Annex 13
Page 2 of 5 pages
C. PRESENT STATUS OF FINANCIAL REOR5ANIZATION
The start and subsequent pace of implementation of the con-
sultants' recommendations was slow owing to the lengthy deliberation
by Government and the conceptual and administrative problems involved.
P&T is now moving ahead with its financial reorganization
according to agreed stipulations and time schedules and is following
closely the recommendations of its consultants, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell
& Co. The Government of India has taken important steps uhich will lead
to the establishment of commercial accounting for the Telecommunications
Branch. The following summarizes the progress and status of the Branch's
financial reorganization.
Transfer of the Branch' s accounting function from the Comptroller and
Auditor General (OCAG) to P&T
The transfer was completed on schedule as of September 1, 1970.
This was a major change in the Government structure requiring Cabinet
approval and affecting some 1,800 government employees.
Beginning with the accounts for fiscal year ending March 31, 1969,
commercial accounts on an accrual basis should be submitted to
Parliament together with the appropriation accounts and a
reconciliation statement
Commercial accounts on an accrual basis for fiscal year ending
March 31, 1969, have been prepared recently and audited by C&AG; they
will be submitted to Parliament shortly. This practice will continue for
the foreseeable future with increasing emphasis and reliance expected to
be placed on the more informative commercial accounts. There has been con-
siderable delay in getting out these first commercial accounts, which was
to be expected at this stage when P&T was in the midst of the accounting
function transfer while at the same time having to prepare and submit
for audit its first commercial accounts on an accrual basis. To speed up
the future preparation of accounts, P&T plans to calculate the revenues
and expenses and to separate postal and telecommunications accounts on a
monthly rather than an annual basis now that the Branch's accounting func-
tion rests with P&T. Also, introduction of double entry bookkeeping
methods at divisional level and above, scheduled beginning December 1, 1971,
will make it easier to maintain the commercial accounts on a current basis.
Beginning not later than April 1, 1971, the clearing of accounts between
the Branch and other government departments should be by direct rendering
of bills and settlement
Effective from October 1, 1969, the cash settlement of account
between Telecommunications accounting units of P&T and other departments
of Central or State governments has been introduced.  Also, all trans-
actions arising in other Departments of the Central Government or in
State Governments and adjustable in the Telecommunications Accounting
Units of P&T will be settled by cash or bank drafts.



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 5ipages
In each of the accounting units transferred to F&T an internal audit
group should be functioning within one year after the transfer of the
unit.
As a unit has been taken over, a P&T internal audit staff has
been established and fully functioning within a year of the transfer.
An asset register should be maintained in the Directorate which shows
capital expenditure by year of installation for each group of assets.
An asset register was completed as of March 31, 1968, and is
being maintained on an annual global basis at historical cost. Later
on an attempt will be made to establish the value of assets by circle/
district in order to eventually be able to calculate each district's
operating results.
The circle/district should become an intermediate accounting unit.
An accountant should be attached to each circle/district when its
telecommunications accounts are taken over by the F&T. The accountant
should be directly responsible to the head of the circle/district and
functionally responsible to the Director of Accounts.
As each circle/district has been taken over, an accounting
staff, headed by a financial adviser, has been established to be
responsible for finances. And now with the completion of the accounting
function transfer, the circle/district has become an intermediate
accounting unit with the financial adviser directly responsible to the
circle/district head and functionally responsible to the Director of
Accounts at Directorate Headquarters.
The senior member (Finance) should be assisted by three ancillary units:
(a) Costing, (b) Stati.stics and (c)- =ficiency.
Each of these units has now been established at Directorate
Headquarters.
Periodical reviews of the lives of telecommunications plant should be
made by a standing committee consisting of engineers and accountants
to ensure that book lives are kept in line with achieved lives.
A standing committee with the following members was constituted
as of June 27, 1969 for recommending the lives to be assigned for differ-
ent categories of assets:
Deputy Director General: Stores and Maintenance
Long Distance
Efficiency Bureau
Deputy Chief Engineer:    Telegraph
Director of Accounts
Director of Finance II
It has been decided that this standing committee will also determine the
current value of assets each year by the use of price indices.



AMEX 13
Page 4 of 5 pages
Divisions should maintain works registers (cost sheets) for each work
costing over Rs 2,500
This is being done in each of the divisions.
A greater measure of financial responsibility should be delegated to the
loier levels of management
TVith coEpletion of the transfer of the accounting function to
P&T and the assigruaent of a financial adviser and accounting staff to
each of the circles/districts, a greater m.asure of financial responsi-
bility nowy rests with the loler levels. It is planned to further delegate
financial responsibility as follows: budget preparation and revievJ of
proposals, and more detailed accounting inforimation at the division level.
Circles/districts have already been given greater financial authority to
incur both revenue and capital exi'enditures.
Consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, should be retained prior to
December 31, 1-9b9, to assist P&T in establishing an effective stock
control systemX
LTith the Barl''s concurrence, P&T has engaged tiie Administrative
Staff Colleg,e o_ India to assist in establishing an effective stock control
systerm. PLT's former consultants, Peat, Iart,wick, Jatchell & Co., wrill be
associated with the study.
The conmiercial accounts of the Telecorumnications Branch, beginning iith
those for the fiscal year ending iarch 31  1969  should be audited annually
by the Comptroller and Auditor General
TLe comiercial accounts for fiscal year ending A-larch 31, 1969
have been audited by the CC-AG.
A systen of double entry bookceeping is to begin to be established from the
first of the fiscal year corimencinG after the conpletion of the t_ranser of
the accounting function fror,m the C&AG to P&T
A cormittee w-as fonred to assist in establishing double entry
bookkeeping itethods for the Teleconmunications Branch, keeping in rind the
statutory position and function of the CLIO. As agreed w-ith the Association,
a system of double entry bookkeeping will be established and working by
December 1, 1971.
D. ADDITIOTAL STEPS TAKEIM  R7uLt.TI1 TO TIHE FIAUajCIAL REORGAIIIZATIOU
Abolishlent of the renewyals reserve fund
The idnistry of Finance has issued an order abolishing the
renewals and reserve fund effective April 1, 1970. The aiuount of the
fund accumulated through harch 31, 1970, will be netted against the
31capital-at-large" of Governm-ent on Uhich P,:T pays interest. Beginning



ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 5 pages
April 1, 1970, depreciation charges will be debited to working expense
chargeable to revenue and vill be available for capital works. This is
an important step towards commercial accounting and follows the recom-
mendation of P&T's consultants, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
Performance budget
Beginning with fiscal year ending March 31, 1970, P&T began
publishing a performance budget, to be submitted as a supplement to the
conventional budget, which will show the physical accomplishment against
the physical plan. Although this is a first attempt for P&T and initially
may not be more than an exercise, it can become meaningful as a gauge to
measure work performance and is a step in P&T's long-range plans to operate
along commercial lines.
Training programs
In order to meet the increased requirement for additional and
better qualified financial staff, as a result of the financial reorgani-
zation, P&T has established training programs for various levels of its
financial staff, including new recruits. They consist primarily of super-
vised, on-the-job training over a two-year period with the individual
required to pass a qualifying examination at the end of the training period.
Separate P&T finance service
A separate F&T finance service has recently been formally
established within Government entitled "P&T Accounts and Finance Service."
This means that the P&T finance service will have its own personnel assig-
ned full time rather than on secondment from other services and will be able
to recruit directly through competitive examination conducted by the Union
Public Service Commission as for other all-India services of GOI. This is
timely, coinciding with the P&T taking over its accounting function and
will serve to strengthen the P&T in all aspects of its broadening finan-
cial responsibilities.
Billing and collection, and stores stock control
Remedial action is being taken in two areas requiring attention,
i.e., billing and collection, and stores stock control. Pursuant to re-
commendations of a committee studying ways to improve the billing and col-
lection procedures, the billing function for Bombay, Calcutta, New Delhi
and Madras, the four largest telecommunication centers in India, are to
be computerized. In the other smaller units new simplified and improved
manual billing and collection procedures are being introduced in accord-
ance with the recommendations of the committee. A manual incorporating
the new procedures is under preparation.



ANNEX 1 4
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
SUMMARY OF TARIFFS
(in Indian Rupees)
1. Telephone
(A) Initial deposits
(i) "Own Your Telephone" (OYT) scheme
Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi & Madras            3,000.00
All other OYYT connections                  2,500.00
(B) Installation fee
Per line                                               50.00
(C) Rental for direct exchange line
(i) Measured rate system quarterly charge
Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi, Madras                90.00
All other measured rate exchanges              75.00
(ii) Flat rate system
Monthly charge                                 30.00
Annual charge                                 340.00
(D) Call charges:
(i) Local no time limit
Up to 750 calls                             .15
In excess of 750 calls                      .20
(ii) Long distance (3 minutes)
Distance                                        STD
(Kilometers)             Manual              Pulse Metered
Up to 20                         .50
21 -  50                        1.00                   .90
51 - 100                        2.00                  1.65
101 - 200                        3.00                   2.40
201 - 500                        5.00                   4.65
501 - goo                        8.00                   6.90
Exceeding 900                     -                    13.65
901 - 1,300                     12.00
Exceeding 1,300                 16.oo



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
2. Telegraphs
Ordinary         Express
(A) Non press:
First 8 words                            1.20            2.40
Each additional word                       .10             .20
(B)  Greetings
First 8 words                            1.40            2.80
Each additional word                       .10             .20
(C)  Press
First 50 words                           1.00            2.00
Each additional word                       ,10            .20
3. Telex
(A) (i) Rental for telex service
with teleprinter (within
the local area of a telex
exchange system) p.a.                             1,800.00
(ii) 'here T.P. machine has been
provided by subscriber himself                      280.00
(B) Local call charges
(3 minutes)                                               .60
(C)  Long distance:
.60 charge for a unit period of:
Up to 200 kilometers                     60 seconds
201 to 600       "                       30 seconds
6o1 to 1 ,ooo    "                       20 seconds
Exceeding 1,000 '                        10 seconds



INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT                                                    Annex 15
Page 1 Of 5Pages
TELECOMblUNICATIONS BRANCH
Pro Forma Balacce Sheet 1965/66 _1975/76
Actual Adjusted                                                             Forecast
1970/71
As of March 31:   1965/66       1966/67      1967/68      1968/69      1969/70      (Estimate)    1971/72        1972/73      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in service                    2,785         3,166        3,536        3,831       4,291          4,799         5,330        6,157        7,378        8,577        9,631
Less:  depreciation                    706          807          924        1, 01        1,164         1 334         1,509        1 709        1.946        2.230        2,559
Net plant he  -erice             9 797        5735-9      -2,61-2        2,812       3,127                         721S                     5,43 2       6,37         707
Plant under constru-ti-                245          342          579          745          832           871         1 477        1 976        i.848        1 679        1 750
70101 octfiooed aesets          -2,3-2h       2,701        3,1-              -       3,959         4-33~            2 ~4                    7,280  -8
Correct Assets
A-n ..ts recevaible                    181          171          174          222          265           303           344          383          434          491          544
-entories                              249          273          241          193          216           242           269          311          373          434          487
Total current  assets              4i3i0        T!!7          uis       *7T5    i        T           3               1-3    ;                 007925                  1,01
Less: corrent liabilities
Payables                                48           54           57           55           64            76            90          102          117          131          143
Corrent maturities                      -            -             7          100           79                          -                         -            -
Net corrent assets                   2            90          301         ;          *             *9- T52                    3 592           490 
Deferred charges                         -             202          190          180          170           160           150          140          130          120          110
TOTAL ASSETS                     276          3,291           682                    4,467                           756                                                 2
LIABILrTIES
EquityY/
Capital-at-charge represeting
Central Gon't contributions       1,536        1,678        1,854        2,017        2,283         2,347          2,690        3,185        3,589        3,807        4,067
Reserves                              691          773          850          961        1 136         1 381         1 583        1 802        2 ,29        2 304         2,655
Total equity                     2,227         ,51         2,704        2,978                3,1                  4,27 3                    5     X 6,722
Long-tesr debt9/
sent loan                               -            -           170          179           79                                -             -                                -
Capital-at-charge r-pres-nting
foreign e-change loans:
IDA Creditn,   28-IN               169           313          313          313          313           313           313          313          313          313          313
58-TN               96          248          248          248          248           248           248           248          248          248          248
153-IN               -            -            -            -            45           177           226           206          206          206          206
IBERD Loan     615-IN               _-                                                                 -            186          207          207          207          207
Canadiao Credit                      -            -            -            -            -             -            142          263          263          263          263
Oth2 r foreigo exchange loans        79          129          142         169          174            174           174          174          174          174          174
Proposed IDA cre.dis                 -            -            -            -            -             -             47          322          285          585          585
FPture borrowings                  _            _            _            _            _             _             _             _            _            300          525
Total long-tern deht less
correnaat mtrities            344          6909/        816          809          780           912         1,316        1,733        1,996        2,296        2,521
Subs-riber deposits                        -            -            -            13           34            52            68           84          100          116           132
Deferred credit                           135          150          162          197          234           273           314          352          386          417           445
TOTAL LIABILITIES                    2,706        3,291        3,682        3,997        4.467         4                            156
Long-tern debt/equity ratio                13/87        22/78        23/77        21/79        19/81         20/80         24/76        26/74         26/74        27/73        27/73
/  For analytical purposes the capital-at-charge was divided in this presentation between funds raised by Goveroment as long-term  debt sad conrtibutions from Central
Government.  From P&Tss poiet of ciew the  -onts shosn as long-tern debt have no repayment ter-s and interest is charged at the rate of 4-3/4% - 6-3/4% (see
p-argraph  .l.l),
|   Reflects d8bt revaluation as a resolt of rupee devaluation.
Jausary 15, 1971



ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
TELECOCMUNICATIONS BRANCH
NOTES AND ASSUWMTIONS ON THE PRO FORMA BALANCE SHEET
Plant in Service and Depreciation
1.        The Indian rupee was devalued in June 1966 from Rs4.76/US$l to
Rs4.50/US$1. The P&T did not revalue its telecommunications plant. The
assets register prepared by the Department records plant at historical
cost, as do the pro forma commercial accounts presented in this report.
A revaluation does not appear necessary now: the growth in amount of new
plant since the rupee devaluation has been substantial--an estimated 70%
by the close of fiscal year 1970/71; replacement costs are lower on many
items of plant; and a considerable portion of the value of telecommunica-
tions plant is local cost and that part which was imported was subject to
overall customs of about 60%.
2.        P&T has compiled and is maintaining a fixed asset register show-
ing the main categories of plant and their value beginning with fiscal
year 1925/26. Depreciation has been recorded based on the estimated life
of the assets, and write-offs have been made on the basis of the assumed
life of the assets regardless of the actual life. The composite rate of
depreciation on average gross wasting assets in service is about 4.5%,
which is reasonable. The value of the assets includes "petty works" which
have been charged against revenue under P&T's system of accounts. Gross
plant in service may be somewhat understated due to (1) small assets -
less than Rs 500 - Rs 2,500 - not being included; (2) plant not adjusted
for the 1966 devaluation and (3) no interest capitalized. The foregoing
notwithstanding, the figures used in the pro forma financial statements
are sufficiently accurate so as not to affect the financial analysis. At
the time of the last Bank/IDA lending operation, agreement was obtained
that, whenever appropriate, and in any case at least every five years, a
review will be made of the value of net fixed assets in operation and the
minimum average rate of depreciation to determine whether, because of sub-
stantial changes in current priceS, adjustments to such values are required;
and confirmation was obtained that periodic reviews of the telecommunica-
tions plant will be made by engineers and accountants to ensure that book
lives of assets are kept in line with achieved lives.
Plant Under Construction
3.        In the forecast it is assumed that the amount of plant under
construction each year will be the sum of 50% of the construction program
of the previous year plus 100% of the construction program of the current
year.



ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 5 pages
Cash
4.        No cash balance is shown since P&T does not have any cash of
its own. As a Government department all revenues of P&T are required to
be paid into the Government's consolidated fund.
Accounts Receivable
5.        Over the years the amount of subscribers' accounts receivable
has been substantial, amounting in some years to almost three months of
total annual operating revenues. Attention is being given to this matter
and the amount of receivables is being reduced to a more reasonable level.
The forecasts assume that for the next five years the receivables will
amount to about 2-1/3 months of total operating revenues.
Inventories
6.        Inventories in stock at the stores and workshops, work in pro-
gress at the workshops and certain goods in transit comprise the total
amount of inventories. The forecasts assume stores to increase propor-
tionately to the increase in gross plant in service.
Accounts Payable
7.        The amount of accounts payable is not large since under the
parliamentary grant system any payments not made may not be charged
against the current grant and will lapse. For purposes of the forecasts,
it has been assumed that 1/12 of staff expenses (mainly salaries, wages
and allowances), and 1/12 of the value of stores at the end of the fiscal
year are owing.
Deferred Charges
8.        As a result of the rupee devaluation in 1966, a foreign exchange
loss of Rs 200 million was incurred. This is shown as a deferred charge,
and amortized over the life of the foreign exchange debt.
Reserves and Capital-at-Charge Representing Central Government
Contributions (Equity)
9.        In constructing a pro forma balance sheet for the purpose of this
report, "capital-at-&hargW" is divided between: (i) Central Government con-
tributions, which, with reserves, would in a commercial sense be considered
equity, and (ii) long-term debt in foreign exchange, which, together with
a repayable Government loan, would be considered long-term debt.
10.       All funds utilized by P&T for its capital expansion are made
available through the Central Government, including P&T's own internally
generated funds and any foreign exchange loans. In establishing the
Telecommunications Branch's pro forma equity (reserves and "capital-at-
charge" representing Central Government contributions) as of March 31,
1965, the reserves are taken as those amounts which were identifiable as
coming from the entity's operations.  The amount of Central Government



ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 5 pages
contributions served as a balancing figure between the amount of total
assets (net of current liabilities) and the sum of long-term debt (see
item ii, previous paragraph), reserves and deferred credit. From 1965
on, reserves and "capital-at-charget, representing Central Government con-
tributions reflect the amount of net profit transferred to reserves, and
Central Government contributions are the balancing item as shown in the
sources and applications of funds.
Government Loan
11.       This loan was made to P&T in order to allow interest payments
to be met on Central Government contributions. The shortage was due to
the Telecommunications Branch transferring funds to the Postal Branch.
Capital-at-charge Representing Long-term Debt in Foreign Exchange
12.       The amount of capital-at-charge representing long-term debt in
foreign exchange includes Bank/IDA borrowings, the CIDA credit, a small
amount of foreign exchange and bilateral aid made available by Government,
and the proposed IDA credit. P&T's accounts treat foreign exchange loans
made available by Government as part of the Central Government contribu-
tion which are in turn treated as non-repayable loans. P&T is not required
to service these long-term loans, but pays the Government annual interest
at between 4-3/4% and 6-3/4%, depending upon the year involved. The
borrowings by GOI for the P&T program are as follows:
(a) Bank loan 615-IN (US$27.5 million) and IDA credit 153-IN (US$27.5
million) totaling US$55 million equivalent with terms for the Bank por-
tion at 6;-% per annum and a term of 30 years, including a grace period
of 10 years. The IDA portion is at the usual IDA credit terms.
(b) Canadian International Development Agency credit of US$35 million
equivalent at no interest or commitment charge and a term of 50 years,
including a grace period of 10 years.
(c) Bilateral aid from various sources amounting to US$.6 million equi-
valent on soft terms.
(d) Proposed IDA credit of US$78 million equivalent at usual IDA credit
terms.
Subscriber Deposits
13.       This is a guarantee deposit instituted in 1968 and pertains to
non-OYT subscribers in measured rate areas. This deposit is refundable
at the time service is surrendered.



ANNEX 15
Page 5 of 5 pages
Deferred Credit
14.       In order to augment funds for capital expansion, a scheme
known as "Own Your Telephone" (OYT) was put into effect in 1949 whereby
a subscriber by paying a lump sum as advance rental would receive pre-
ference in obtaining telephione service. The subscriber in effect recoups
his advance payment in 20 years by paying a lesser rate for telephone ser-
vice. Under the plan, the subscriber is entitled to a refund if he dis-
connects his service. However, in actual fact, there have been scarcely
any disconnections of OYT service.



Annex 16
Page 1 of 3 pages
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPA3734ENT
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Pro Foroa Statement Of Inoome 1965/66 - 1975/76
(Rs Million)
Actual Adjusted                                                                Forenoot
1970/71
Year ending March 31:          1965/66      1966/67      1967/68      1968/69      1969/70    (Estinote)        1971/72      1972/73      1973/74      174/75      1975/76
Rk7ENUE
Telepho-e
Looal rental and coll oharges            343          405          469          548          691           818           948        1,058        1,202        1,370        1,521
Tronk and international chargen          228          264          299          330          363           402           443          495          555          639          734
I-stallntion fees                          4            3            5            4            5             6             7            9           11           11           12
Total telephone revene                575           79                                                                           - 5 1,059  162  172,02                 2
Telegraph
Dode-tic                                  89           99          113          130          132           135           138          141          144          147          151
Istenotioon-l                             17           20           16           16           18            20            22           24           26           28            30
Total tele.raph r           venue     106                       129          9           150           155           160          %%7         170           175          19%
Telex                                         3            8            11          22           45            6o             80          100          130          165          190
Railway   caimunions                         21           29           46           52           45            45             50           50           55           58           h1
Viscell-aeous                                24           24            46          25           25            29             33           37           45           46           50
Total Op-roting Rheenue               729          852        1,005        1,l07        1,324         1,515         1 721        1,914        L,6          2,4         ;0748
EXPENSES
Staff enpe-ses                              338          362          433          496          555           671           812          916        1,041        1,149        1,232
Other c00t0 of operati-n                     66          102          113          164          180           197           216           240          266          302          337
Depreciation                                 98          117          137          130          181           202           225          256          301          354          4')
For eign exchonge loss                       -           _             10           10           10             10           11            10           11           10           1O
Totol Operating Epenses               502          581          693          820          926         1,0o0         1,763        1,422        1,617        1,815        1,183
NET OPERATI00     INMOSI - 2elore iter-est   227         271          312          317          398           435            458         492           551    .      51         765
Leso interest)
Forei_a enohonge loan              16           35            39          41           46             51            73           97          115          040          158
Central  oo't co-itrbhtioon        65           72           76           86                        00 112         123          136          165          195          216
G.orer-oent loan                                                            9 -  _       9             4
fET PROFIT                                  146          164          197          171          246           268           o6h           259          2f.7         315
Tranefero to  nstsl Fro.c.h                  29           82          120           6o           71             23            6o           4o           40           41           L.
Net profit tr-osfesned to reserres          117           82           77          1ll          175           245            202          219         '27           Aft         o51
irerage net plont in  ermice              1,922        2,219        2,486        2,712        2,970         3,296         3,643        4,135        4,.4o        5,890        4,71,
RBte of re-trnJ/                           11.8%        12.2%        12.6%        11.3%        13.4%         13.2%         12.6%         11.%         11.2%,      11.1:.       11. -.
Operating ratio.z/                         69%          68%          69%          73%          70%           71%           73%          74%          '5%           74%
1 Rtio of sot operating income to average net plant in servie.
Ratin of total operating expenses to total operating reeenes.
Jan-a-y 15, 1971



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of3 pages
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
NOTES AND ASSUMPTIONS ON THE PRO FORMA STATEMENT OF INCOME
Revenues and expenses are shown on an accrual basis as distinct
from a cash receipts and payments basis. Allowance is made for services
rendered for which payment has not been received and, conversely, for
revenue realized in advance without corresponding service having been
rendered. Similarly, with expenses, allowance is made for expenses
incurred for which payment has not been made.
Telephone Revenue
Local rental, call charges and trunk charges have been forecast
on the basis of planned average increase in direct exchange lines but
with some allowance for the planned expansion of STD.
Installation fees have been forecast on the basis of the esti-
mated number of telephones to be installed during the year, including
reconnections and shifting of telephones.
Telegraph Revenue
Domestic revenues have been assumed to increase at an annual
rate of 3%o based on past growth and allowing for the likely diversion
of telegraph traffic due to increased telephone and telex service.
International revenues are forecast to increase by Rs 2 million
annually.
Telex Revenue
Telex service is of recent origin and a sizable growth in
traffic is envisaged. Telex revenue is forecast on the basis of planned
average increase in number of telex connections; revenues are assumed to
increase at about 30% annually.
Railway Telecommunications
Revenue under this category has been estimated to be Rs 45
million in 1970/71 and gradually rising to Rs 61 million by 1975/76.
Miscellaneous
Revenues from miscellaneous sources such as cost of broken
instruments, payment of guarantees, fees and directory advertising are
estimated to be Rs 29 million in 1970/71 and to increase to Rs 50 million
by 1975/76.



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3 pages
Expenses
Staff expenses and other costs of operation have been forecast
to increase on the basis of planned increase in direct exchange lines,
but taking into account increased system automization as well as
assumed increases in wages and cost-of-living allowances.
Depreciation has been assumed at a composite rate of 4.5% on
average assets in service.
Foreign exchange loss is in connection with the devaluation.
See note under "Deferred Charges" on page 3 of Annex 15.
Postal Transfers
The amount of loss on the Postal Branch's operations has been
reflected by the Telecommunications Branch in its accounts to show annually
the postal loss that telecommunications notionally covers. Although, the
transfer of funds from Telecommunications to Postal is notional, the amount
of the postal loss unfavorably influences the amount of funds allocated
by GOI for telecommunications development. Over the past six years the
Postal Branch losses have amounted to Rs385 million, about 20% of the
Telecommunication Branch's net operating income for the same period.
Annual transfers to the Postal Branch are assumed to be Rs23
million in 1970/71, which is the present budget estimate, and Rs6O million
in 1971/72. This larger amount is assumed to be required to cover an
estimated loss by the Postal Branch in 1971/72 as a result of an expected
postal wage increase that year. From 1972/73 on, annual Postal Branch
transfers of Rs4O million are included because in the past the Telecommu-
nications Branch has continually made up the Postal Branch's losses.
This was discussed with the former Director General and the present Senior
Member (Finance), who stated that the postal operation does not operate
at a loss as a matter of policy, rather it occurs as a result of delays
in obtaining increases in postal rates.



INDIA                                                                          A2NEX 17
POSTS AND TELZGRAPHS DEPARTMFNI
TELECONNUNICATIONS BRANCH
Pro Forna Sources and Applications of Ponds 1965/66 - 1975/76
(Rs Million)
Actoal Adjusted                                                                  Forecast
1970/71
Year ending March 31:         1965/66      1966/67       1967/68      1968/69      1969/70     (Estimate)       1971/72      1972/73       1973/74      1974/75      1975/76
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cas' generation
Net operating incore
before interest                     227           271          312          307           393           435            458          492          551           651          765
Amortization of eaciange lose           -            -o                         10           10                           10           10 10                      11           10
Depreciation                            9&          117          137           150         i1i            202            225          256          301           354          404
Total intes:al cast generotia  325    4         399    4     7~ -   :     U99           9                793                      758    oo2               1,115    1     ,179
Central Oceroest contribution             155          142           176          163          266             64           343          495           404          21i          260
OYT paynents (less discount
granted s-bs-riters)                     23           15           12            35           37            39             41           38            34           31           23
SubscrIber depDeits                        -            -            -             13           21           1i              16           16            16           16           16
Soorccologs:
IDA Credits:  2S-TU                     71           47                               -             -             -             -                   -             -            -
53-li                   65           95            --                                       -             - _  _       _                                       -
1535-l                   -            -                                       4 -  -5       132            29            _            -            _             -
IBRD Loenrs 5-:11                       -            -            -             -            -             -             186            2-
C-aad'an Credit                         -                         -             -            -             _             142          121
-cier  -r-eign e-c-an-e loans            3            4           13           27            5                            -            -
lcver-ment lon                          - -_                     17C           66                          -                           -
2rcpseT IT   . credit                  --                                     -             -             -              17          275          263            -            -
Fucure bccrccltasrr                     -            -     i      -             -            -             -                           -            -300                      225
Coctc b-rr-ircigs                              146            idS3          93           50            132         'tSE           TTT          293           300           225
-O.  S,-,JREI  OF FUilDS         591          691          831           77I          963           900         l.a97         1,724        1,59j         1.51         1,
AP7LICTIDrS WF FJIoDS
c,e,t-,cti.n  p-  I-s 43o                              494          627          498           583           579         1,187         1,382        1,157        1,100         1,231
7--af-r   c ?-5 al Br-lich                 29           S2           120           6o           71             23            6o           40            41           40            41
Debt see- e:
Aos-ts'sr   - lo-ornoent ben            -            -            -             57          110            79                          -             -            -
este e.t 1/
G---e-r-e'-t lcan                   _             -            -             9             9             4
Canotal-at-charge representing:
Fore. ign cthenge loans
(oinrld-t, IBRD loan and IDA
redits)                         16           35           39           41            46            51             67           S1           85            85           85
Cenra  Gc't contribubions   65                72           76            86           97           112            123          136          165           195          216
P-p-oee  I'  credit                 -            -             -            -            -              -              6            i6           34           42            42
tuore occoccotogs                   -             -            -            -             -             --                          -            -             1L           31
Ictal dent service              ol 107                    115           193          252                           ;           233 T23                    336          374
Increase (decrease)  -inking capital    51               6           (32)          20           57            52             54           69             S          104           94
ICIAL APPL_CATIOiS OF F-P2ID2            591          691          330           771          963           900         1,497         1,724        1,579         1,98         1,704
Cines debt -erv-ce coee-ed by internal
cas  generatIon                           4.0          3.6          4.0           2.4          2.3           2.6            3.5          3.3          3.           3.          3.2
1/  See footnote, Adnne   15, page 1.
-auae-y 15, 1971



j; ,         OSrinagor              )
dharrpur    ',,  INDIAN POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
Jam-,V,           r                      iiiiii                          N
JomnmuL\ *       Daihousie  6A                                 PROPOSED  EXPANSION  OF
Armrilsarci\/'                  8CO-AXIAL CABLE  AND  MICROWAVE
JiIundurf         9rnmla       M.
Feroepur       digh                            SYSTEMS  DURING  THE  FOURTH
Ferazepur.' Ludhidc      z/Chandigarh          A.                                                                                      C 
/ Ct /  Am,ycic al           DEHRADUN X                               FIVE-YEAR   PLAN                              ,       
ATIA \ /   /Muzzafarnagar  .i
.1 arAT2ND^Tv               Meerut                                              1969-1974                         /   Di9 orh    7insukic
I/                    0alm         H                                                                                                O_
,B_,_,I t31KANER         k-la                                                                            . REILLY    t    ,J   _orhc1.
M\\   \Nrstel I                   DarjeeliJg     _.                      ezp I u
Note4ISillgu;ijI'-"                                             -.--.-           p u r
t   Jodhpur                                          ucknow                                   I \.1 ,eCoochtbehar  N 
x               aipur         '.              -                                       12 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rRKHUk--A)hillong 
K                          t8ecqcs                 KANPt            4        7  IPATNA_q_               I   j        ,  ._a                    i4
Al  /  Ka1ikar J
\   /   IAIbo hobb,dr SoscrrSso            /
N                  /         |                              /            Varanasi         x
;   / Udoipar                                                                       1 ./ Ass ssol
Himnatnagar            OBohpo3        /                           oRANCH[        \        \              V         \
AHMEDABAD 24oRATtA -    '                               )ABALPUR                  JAMSHEDPUR,,>  ACUTA'
-?   ;  /  %)  ~~~~~~--tIndore                      t                                    "KHARA         Gt
>   Rwt   R  /   5/   /  RAIPUR   >/   >
AR          roach_ NAOPUR                                              -     -__gAMBALPU]
Surai                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUT TACO
0MBA   I
BOMBAY            Poa \SIZAMABAD                                                                      status JAN 1971
\Eisting                  Pr3posed
p      \pongli   3          n
\\  Kolhcpur          YDE5AB4-                                                 Co-a::ial Cable
Paired Cable
VI AYAWADA                      -----  Microwave Radio--4--
>  Hubli>\ U                                                           Note I     Cable laid, awaiting eqaipment.
3 1 91 -7
MADRAS
KZIO pVluuomys
COIMB   ATORa   50   0                                                          100      200       300      400       500
MtkES
TI RUCH IRA PALLY
a \.    r STlRuNE,V,
TRIVANDRUM       T      V
FEBAAYCOI L
FEBP.UARY 1971                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 254l7R



