CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 241 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 3, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 241 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 3, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,      dated May 3, 1971,      between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Bank and the Association have previously assisted the
Borrower in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project by respectively
making Loan No. 615 IN and extending Credit No. 153 IN, both dated
June 18, 1969;
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Association to further assist the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Appi 'eble to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);
and
(c)   paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "P & T" means the Posts and Telegraphs Department of the Ministry
of Information, Broadcasting and Communications of the Borrower.
(b)   "Branch" means the Telecommunications Branch of P & T.
(c)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
(d)   "Capital-at-charge" in the commercial accounts means the amount
invested by the Borrower in the Branch before deducting any amounts transferred
to the Postal Branch.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-eight million dollars
($78,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1974, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿*                                            5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Settion 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in  semi-annual installments payable on   each  June 15 and December 15
commencing June 15, 1981 and ending December 15, 2020, each installment to
and including the installment payable on December 15, 1990 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE "I
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through P & T with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Proj-.ct, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or for the operation of the telecommunications facilities of the Borrower, or any
part thereof.
Section   4.02.   The    Borrower    shall   operate   and    maintain   its
telecommunications facilities, and from time to time make all necessary renewals
and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound public utility and engineering
practices.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause P & T to continue the financial reorganization of the Branch, including
the provisions of and according to the time schedule set forth in, Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause P & T to establish an effective stock control system with an experienced
staff for its stores operation. It is understood that, in establishing an effective
stock control system, P & T plans to carry out the recommendations of the
Consultancy Division of the Administrative Staff College of Hyderabad for the
progressive installation and staffing of a stock control system in a manner
satisfactory to the Association. The new stock control system shall be operational
no later than June 30, 1973, or such other date as shall be mutually agreed.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall have the commercial accounts of the
Branch, beginning with those for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1971, audited


﻿7
annually by the Comptroller and Auditor General of the Borrower. The Borrower
shall transmit to the Association:
(i)         beginning with  the accounts for the fiscal year ending
March 31, 1971, provisional commercial accounts (balance
sheet and related statement of earnings and expenses) of the
Branch not later than four months after the close of the fiscal
year to which they relate, and, within a reasonable time
thereafter, certified copies of the audited statements (balance
sheet and related statement of earnings and expenses) and signed
copies of the auditors' reports relating to the commercial
accounts; and
(ii)        certified copies of the audited finance and revenue accounts of
the Branch and signed copies of the auditors' reports relating
to these accounts promptly after such statements are available.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall (a) consult the Association about any plan
for a major reorganization of the Branch sufficiently in advance of the adoption
of such plan for the Association to have adequate opportunity to comment thereon,
and (b) advise the Association of its position with respect to the recommendations
of the Administrative Reforms Commission concerning regional reorganization, and
the reasons therefor, by September 30, 1971, or such other date as shall be
mutually agreed.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that all funds required for the
carrying out of the Project are available to the Branch before any funds generated
by the Branch are applied to the operations of the Postal Branch of P & T or
to any use other than the operations of the Branch and the carrying out of the
Project.
(b)   For purposes of compiling the commercial accounts of the Branch,
the interest payable by the Branch on the capital-at-charge of the Branch shall
be computed after reducing such capital-at-charge by the amount of any funds
generated by the Branch and applied to the operations of the Postal Branch of
P & T.
Section 4.08. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall establish and maintain tariffs for telecommunications services, and
shall take all other action which may be necessary or appropriate, so as to provide
revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate of return of not less than 11% on
the value of the net fixed assets in operation of the Branch, computed in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿8
(b)   Whenever appropriate, and in any case not less frequently than every
five years, the Borrower shall review, or cause to be reviewed, the value of the
net fixed assets in operation of the Branch to determine whether, because of
substantial changes in current prices, adjustments to such values are required, and
shall notify the Association of the result of any such review. Appropriate
adjustments to the value of the net fixed assets in operation of the Branch for
purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section shall then be made to the extent agreed
between the Borrower and the Association. At the same time, the minimum annual
rate of return specified in paragraph (a) of this Section and the minimum average
rate of depreciation for purposes of computing costs specified in paragraph 2 (a)
(ii) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement will also be reviewed by the Borrower and
the Association in order to determine whether any adjustments are called for.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or the operation of the telecommunications facilities of the Borrower to which
the Project relates, or any part thereof.


﻿9
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of the Branch, Indian Telephone
Industries Limited, Hindustan Cables Limited, Hindustan Teleprinters Limited, any
department or agency of the Borrower which is responsible for carrying out the
Project or the operation of the telecommunication facilities of the Borrower to
which the Project relates, or any part thereof, and any relevant records and
documents and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall he free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance


﻿10
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
Development Credit Agreement No. 153 IN or under Loan Agreement No.
615 IN, both dated June 18, 1969 and pertaining to the Third
Telecommunications Project.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The event specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date July 1, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
4.05, 4.06 and 4.08 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 30 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. A Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿*                                11
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
\!ashington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columoia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ L.K. Jha
Authorized Repreventative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Goods and services to
be imported by P & T:
(a)   Local exchange           4,300,000          100% of foreign
switching and trans-                              expenditures
mission systems
(b)  Cable, wire and          13,300,000          100% of foreign
accessories                                       expenditures
(c)   Radio systems and        4,400,000          100% of foreign
research, training and                            expenditures
test equipment; techni-
cal assistance
(d)  Materials, compon-        4,000,000          100% of foreign
ents and machines for                             expenditures
P & T workshop
II.   Goods to be purchased by
P & T from the Government
telecommunications
factories:
(a)  (i) Telephones,          22,500,000          25% of total ex-
switching and trans-                              penditures,
mission equipment                                 representing the
other than trunk auto-                            estimated foreign
matic exchanges, manu-                            expenditure com-
factured by Indian                                ponent
Telephone Industries
Limited


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(ii) Trunk auto-          3,700,000          60% of total ex-
matic exchanges, manu-                             penditures,
factured by Indian                                 representing the
Telephone Industries                               estimated foreign
Limited                                            expenditure com-
ponent
(b)   Teleprinters, manu-        800,000           9% of total ex-
factured by Hindustan                              penditures, rep-
Teleprinters Limited                               resenting the
estimated for-
eign expenditure
component
(c)   Cable and wire,          2500,000            55% of total ex-
manufactured by Hindustan                          penditures, rep-
Cables Limited                                     resenting the
estimated for-
eign expenditure
component
TOTAL         78,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term  "total expenditures" means the aggregate of (i) foreign
expenditures and (ii) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:


﻿14
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any sub-category within
Category I shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such
sub-category and no longer required therefor may be reallocated by the Association
by increasing correspondingly the amount of one or more of the other sub-categories
within Category I;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any sub-category within
Category II shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such
sub-category and no longer required therefor may be reallocated by the Association
by increasing correspondingly the amount of one or more of the other sub-categories
within either Category I or II, or both;
(c)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any sub-category within
Category I shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount
of such increase, and a corresponding amount may be allocated by the Association,
with the consent of the Borrower, to such sub-category from one or more of the
other sub-categories within either Category I or II, or both; and
(d)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any sub-category within
Category II shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the
table in paragraph I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to
the amount of such increase, and a corresponding amount may be allocated by
the Association, with the consent of the Borrower, to such sub-category from one
or more of the other sub-categories within Category II, subject, however, to
paragraph 5 below.
5.   The Association from time to time and with the consent of the Borrower
may revise the percentages of total expenditures in one or more of the sub-categories
of Category II, so as to reflect revised estimates of the foreign expenditure
component of such sub-category or sub-categories.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is P & T's five-year program for the expansion of the Branch's
telecommunications facilities and coincides with the Borrower's Fourth Five-Year
Plan, April 1, 1969 through March 31, 1974. The Project has a capital
expenditure target of approximately Rs 4,888,000,000 and comprises the following
main items:
1.   Expansion of local telephone exchanges to increase the capacity by
approximately 565,000 direct exchange lines, together with the necessary cables
and subscriber equipment to add approximately 540,000 installations.
2.    Expansion of the long distance network by approximately 26,000
inter-urban speech channels together with the necessary switching and terminating
equipment.
3.   Expansion of the capacity of the telex network to provide for
approximately 9,300 additional subscribers, together with the associated switching
and long distance channels; and expansion and modernization of the public
telegraph service.
4.    Expansion and modernization of management, training and research
facilities appropriate to the increasing scope and complexity of P & T's operations.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1974.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    The goods and services included in Category I of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in August 1969.
2.    With respect to any contract for procurement of goods and services referred
to in paragraph 1 to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
any notification of an award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any
objection to the intended award on the ground that it would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred
to in paragraph I above, or with the Development Credit Agreement, and shall
state the reasons for any objections it may have.


﻿17
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable
objection, or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any contract for the procurement of goods and services
referred to in paragraph I to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding and estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, a copy of the invitation to
bid, the bid analysis and evaluation, two conformed copies of such contract, and
any other documents the Association may request. The Association shall promptly
inform the Borrower if it finds that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
referred to in paragraph I above, or with the Development Credit Agreement and,
in such event, no expenditure under such contract shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
4.    The goods and services included in the following Categories of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall
be procured from the Indian companies indicated in accordance with the usual
procedures of the Branch:
Category II (a)        -     Indian Telephone Industries Limited
Category II (b)        -     Hindustan Teleprinters Limited
Category 11 (c)        -     Hindustan Cables Limited
Such Indian companies will continue to procure imported goods for the production
of the goods included in such Categories on the basis of international competitive
bidding wherever appropriate.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Financial Reorganization of the Branch
The financial reorganization of the Branch, referred to in Section 4.03 of
this Agreement, shall be carried out in accordance with the following time schedule:
1.   Beginning with the accounts for fiscal year 1969/1970, annual accounts for
the Branch shall be prepared and submitted to Parliament (together with a
reconciling statement) not only in the form of the appropriation accounts but
also in the form of commercial accounts on an accrual basis with a statement
of earnings and expenses and a balance sheet. For the purposes of these statements,
fixed assets in operation shall be valued in accordance with the provisions of Section
4.08 (b) of this Agreement.
2.    Beginning with the forecast for fiscal year 1971/1972, budget forecasts on
an accrual basis will be prepared and submitted to Parliament together with the
present appropriation forecasts.
3.    P & T will promptly establish an internal audit system for the Branch. In
each of the accounting units transferred to P & T, an internal audit group shall
be functioning within one year after the transfer of the unit.
4.    A system of double entry bookkeeping is to be established and working,
no later than December 1, 1971, in the accounting units of the Branch where
revenue and expense are initially recorded.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 5
Computation of Annual Rate of Return
1.   The annual rate of return on the value of the net fixed assets in operation
of the Branch, referred to in Section 4.08 of this Agreement, shall be computed
by relating the net operating income accruing from the telecommunications services
for the year in question to the average of the value of net fixed assets in operation
at the beginning and at the end of the year in question.
2.    For purposes of this computation:
(a)   "net operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(i)   all operating revenues accruing  from   telecommunications
services, excluding subscriber deposits and that portion of
receipts under the "Own Your Telephone" scheme which relates
to service to be rendered in future years, and
(ii)  all operating costs of the telecommunications services, including
administrative expenses, adequate maintenance and provision for
depreciation on all depreciable assets in operation, computed in
accordance with the straight-line method at an average rate of
not less than 4-1/2% per annum of the gross value of such
depreciable assets in operation, adjusted in accordance with
Section 4.08 (b) of this Agreement, but excluding interest and
other charges on debt and on the Borrower's contributions to
P & T; and
(b)   "value of net fixed assets in operation" shall mean the gross value
of such assets, less accumulated depreciation, adjusted in accordance with Section
4.08 (b) of this Agreement.
3.   The above computation shall be made on the basis of P & T's commercial
accounts for the Branch, except as such accounts are inconsistent with the above
provisions.


