Report No. PID9641
Project Name                     Egypt, Arab Republic of-Skills Development
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Vocational/Technical Education & Training
Project ID                       EGPE49702
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT
Implementing Agency
Address TECHNICAL SECRETARIAT FOR HUMAN
RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT(TSHRD)
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 26, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 14, 2001
Projected Board Date             September 15, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector Background Egypt has a comprehensive but complex skills development
system. Training activities are provided by both private and public
institutions in various different arrangements. Little is known about
private sector training providers. No systematic data collection on
private training providers exist, although it is known that they tend to
concentrate in the provision of training for the service sector. There is
no information on fees, training outcomes, or even a breakdown of
graduates by specialities. Public provision of training, on the other
hand, is the responsibility of various ministries, although the largest
number of VT students is under the Ministry of Education (MOE) as part of
general secondary schools or technical schools (2 million students). In
addition, there are various networks of vocational training centers (VTCs)
affiliated with 21 ministries, agencies and some public enterprises. The
breadth and quality of the training offered varies significantly, and each
center decides its own program, content, conditions, curricula and
examination standards. Only a few agencies provide diplomas sanctioned by
the MOE. A 1998 survey was conducted by CAPMAS to establish the size of
the public training sector. The survey covered 1,222 public training
centers nationwide, with a total of 172,895 graduates. The two major
providers are the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Housing. Many
public enterprises have established in-house training centers for their
staff, with an approximate total of 161 training centers.     Training at
the post-secondary level is offered by the Middle Training Institutes
(MTI) under the Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE). MTIs students come
from the general secondary schools or the technical schools under the MOE.
In 1998, a total of 112,000 students were enrolled in MTIs. Expenditures
and number of students in the public vocational and technical education
(1998)Budget (000 LE)Number of institutionsStudents (000)Expenditure per
studentl. Technical and Vocational Schools (MOE)300,0002,0001502. Middle
Technical Institutes (MOHE)82,0001127323. Vocational Training Centers
(various ministries, agencies and public enterprises)+Ministry of Industry
(PVTD)+Ministry of Housing (TOMOHAR)+Ministry of
Tourisml25,0001,2223874NA1731013NA722Total507,0002,285222Source: Report of
the Education, Training and Employment Sub-Committee, Government of the



Republic of Egypt, August 2000Reform of vocational and technical education
in the ministries of Education and Higher Education is currently being
supported by the World Bank through the Secondary and Higher Education
Enhancement Projects. The proposed SDP project would support the reform
of vocational training outside the Education and Higher Education
ministries (3rd row of the table). Government Strategy The government is
actively seeking new arrangements for training, and with support from the
Bank, is developing an umbrella strategy for education and training that
will be conducive to the development of human capital and the skills
needed by the economy. The main axis of this umbrella strategy are the
development of a solid basic and secondary education, where individuals
develop their general cognitive skills, while the training sector with
strong participation of the business sector, provides the market relevant
skills. At the secondary level, vocational schools are gradually being
converted to general secondary schools, while changing the curricula to
enable students acquire more general skills. At the higher education
level, the strategy seeks to improve the quality and relevance of MTIs. In
the case of vocational training centers (VTCs), the government recently
established an Education, Training and Employment Sub-committee (ETES)
chaired by the Minister of Manpower, to recommend a strategy for their
development. The Government has now approved the recommendations of the
ETES Report, which among other things presented a National Employment and
Training Strategy. Implementing the strategy is the responsibility of a
Supreme Council on Human Resource Development (SCHRD) and its executive
arm is an Executive Committee (ECHRD) (both of which are also chaired by
the Minister of Manpower). The operational arm of the SCHRD/ECHRD is a
Technical Secretariat (TSHRD). The GoE has also established Local
Committees on Human Resource Development (LCHRD) to operate at the
provincial level or, in some cases, below this. The GoE has agreed that
the SCHRD and ECHRD should operate for now as the de facto national
employment and training authority. They have been authorized to commence
discussions to identify at least one Vocational Training Center (VTC) in
each of three industries where alternative models of management and
ownership could be put in place on a pilot basis. Procedures are to be
developed to devolve the management of other VTCs to the VTCs themselves,
allowing them greater responsibility and accountability for use of their
own resources. The procedures would be developed in consultation with the
private sector and with Local Councils, which could be given a substantial
role in developing and implementing devolution.The SCHRD/ECHRD has been
asked to initiate a tripartite working party to identify and assess
various forms of employer-based training and to develop plans to encourage
their greater use. They are also to initiate a review of private sector
training by conducting a census of providers in order to assess the scope
of the training offered, the size of the sector, information on outcomes,
costs and fee structures. Other tripartite working parties have been
asked to consider alternative models for financing training, and to
develop options and develop consistent policies for the application of
student fees in the training sector. Finally, the SCHRD has been asked to
review the existing legislation on vocational training and prepare a
legislative program to present a new and separate law on vocational
training. It will also review legislation governing the financial
management of training institutes with a view to enabling them to take
greater charge of their own finances.Another area of reform currently
under way is the revision of the qualifications framework. This is an
area of reform that brings together the education and training sectors as
- 2-



the new framework will allow multiple pathways for students at all levels,
to and from education and training. Skills standards will be established
as well as testing and certification criteria. Main sector issuesThe
Government has long recognized that its TVT system is not meeting the
needs of the emerging economy. It has been centered almost entirely on
public sector needs and has been bound by out-dated curricula and training
methods. More specifically:(a) Lack of relevance of training vis-a-vis the
needs of enterprises. The existing system is supply-driven, dominated by
training courses that are geared towards new entrants to the labor force
(in many cases, dropouts from general education) while there are few
opportunities for training to upgrade the skills of employed workers.
There is little participation of firms, or their representatives, in the
design of training programs and curricula. Training courses are
essentially institution-based which does not prepare students adequately
to a real life work environment. This disconnect between training
programs and firms' skills needs represents an inefficient utilization of
public resources.(b) Inadequate financing and sustainability of the TVET
system. Larger firms tend to finance their own training needs. For most
firms however, limited access to financing constrains the skills upgrading
of their workers. Public sector training is financed through budget
transfers to a vast network of training centers and schools that costs an
estimated LE500 million a year. The effectiveness of these expenditures
is called into question by the generally poor outcomes of the public
training sector. Budget allocations to public training providers are made
with no reference to performance by the beneficiary institutions nor to
accountability criteria.(c) Inadequate evaluation of training programs.
There is no mechanism currently in place to measure the value added of
training programs, nor a comprehensive registry of training providers and
their specialties, which limits the Government's capacity to help the
system change and become more effective. (d) Lack of system-wide
standards and fragmentation of the TVT system. There are over 20
ministries involved in training activities, in addition to private
providers and other public providers such as public enterprises. There
are no unified standards for curricula, examinations or program content.
Inefficiencies arise from duplication of programs and lack of criteria to
assess performance.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the project is to enhance the relevance and
efficiency of training and skill acquisition by supporting the creation
and development of a demand-driven system through new forms of funding and
institutional arrangements that would increase the synergy between the
private and public sectors.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has extensive experience in the field and is able to act as a
catalyst in bringing together other major institutions engaged in TVT
reform. It has already established an expert group to consider the
reforms that are required. It is also difficult for the government to
bring about reforms in a field where there are so many internal
stakeholders. The Bank is able to act as an expert third party to guide
developments, to provide technical advice and to undertake independent
monitoring and evaluations of the pilot schemes being proposed. At the
same time, there is a large number of donors active in the sector without
a unified, coherent and sustainable program. The project provides a forum
- 3 -



for donor coordination, cofinancing and leverage of funds.
4. Description
Component 1: Financial Reform. This component would develop alternative
means of financing training: building a sustainable fund (the NTF) that
would be managed as an autonomous (extra-budgetary) fund by the TSHRD on
behalf of the SCHRD. A pilot program would establish a new management
system and a transfer of ownership to the private sector for selected
VTCs. This component would also develop employer-based training programs
to complement or partially replace current institution-based programs.
Component 2: Institutional Reform. The component would assist the bodies
responsible for TVT (the SCHRD, ECHRD. LCHRD and TSHRD) to operate as a de
facto national training authority and take control of the NTF. The
project would develop mechanisms for accountability and alternative
management systems for individual government training centers, develop
performance criteria for assessing training centers, develop linkages and
feedback mechanisms involving employers, and to manage the monitoring and
evaluation of the impact of training supported by the NTF (see below).
The component would also assist the de facto national training authority
to develop the appropriate legislative basis for the reforms.Component 3:
Development of VTC infrastructure. This component would initially build
up the infrastructure in the limited number of existing VTCs participating
in the pilot program: the physical resources, including equipment and
materials, and the human resources. Component 4: Monitoring and
Evaluation. The component would monitor and evaluate the impact of
training supported by the NTF. The component would design and implement
procedures for monitoring training centers against performance criteria.
It would design and implement procedures for evaluating student outcomes
using comparative assessments against control groups. The monitoring and
evaluation procedures would be developed as an integral part of the
operations of the de facto national training authority.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               0
IBRD                     40
IDA
OTHER DONORS             40
Total Project Cost       80
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented through existing agencies, namely through
the TSHRD initially, which already operates as the executive arm of the
SCHRD/ECHRD. The resources of the TSHRD would be supplemented to allow it
to operate as the project management unit also. To increase the prospects
for a successful project implementation, the project team will seek that
the implementing structure be a semi-autonomous unit, exempt from public
sector procurement and compensation regulations. Its staff would work
under performance-based contracts, and guidelines detailed in operational
manuals.National Training Fund. The NTF would be established as an
independent fund (to be determined during appraisal). It would initially
be under the operational control of the TSHRD reporting to a Board of
Directors under guidelines prepared under the project and issued by the
SCHRD.The Supreme Council on Human Resource Development. The SCHRD and
its Executive Committee will act as the de facto national training agency
- 4 -



including during the period leading up to the introduction of appropriate
legislation. Draft legislation confirming this role should be prepared by
the end of the first phase of the APL and would one of the triggers for
second phase implementation.
7. Sustainability
Successfully sustaining the reforms depends on two things. First,
appropriate legislation must be enacted. It is proposed that this be
accomplished in stage 1 of the project, before proceeding to investments
in the other stages. Second, a sustainable method of funding TVT must be
in place. The sustainability of the project will be derived from the
increased cost savings through a more efficient delivery of training, and
through cost recovery measures.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Overcoming financial and institutional impediments is known to be
critical to achieving successful reforms in TVT. Training funds are
established through Bank projects in countries like Jordan, Indonesia,
Tunisia and Morocco where experience has shown that considerable
supervision and follow-up is required if the system is to become genuinely
demand-driven. Further investment in TVT, such as for new equipment and
materials or even for teaching training and curriculum development, should
not proceed until significant progress has been made with institutional
reform. Lessons learned include the need to make project designs
flexible, to monitor labor demand on a regular basis, and to include
formal and regular assessments of training programs to ensure they remain
responsive to industry needs.Completed Bank projects have focused on
expanding the training of managers, technicians, and skilled workers in
the industry sector; expanding and improving planning and manpower
development; and providing support for health education. The lessons
learned from these earlier operations have been incorporated into the
design of the proposed project.n The management of TVT would have public
and private sector representatives. Decisions on co-financing training
activities between public and private entities would be based on
consideration by these representatives. It would have the resources to
monitor activities on a regular basis and consult with employer
associations to revise programs to meet changing demands or respond to the
use of new technology. To keep track of changing demand, the TSHRD would
analyze labor market information. It would also undertake (or commission)
surveys, including tracer studies. In addition, the TSHRD would contract
independent evaluators for periodic assessment of the programs it has
co-financed.n Activities under the project would be allocated on a
competitive basis to training providers, who would have to provide
evidence concerning the quality and availability of trainers. n
Associations and, in some cases beneficiaries, would share the cost of
training. The guidelines for cost-sharing will be contained in the
operations manual. The project would help to establish fee-based training
programs that would substantially lessen the Government's financial
burden. This demand-driven system would be sustainable so long as there
would be demand for training in the private sector that the centers would
be able to meet in a cost-effective manner.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
- 5 -



Issues        The 3rd project component, Development of VTCs
infrastructure, entails potential environmental impacts, particularly
during the physical rehabilitation of training centers in urban areas, and
also during the normal operation of the training centers. Potential
problems include: (i) noise and dust during construction; (ii) disposal
and utilization of appropriate material in the construction/rehabilitation
process; (iii) site location issues, including provision of adequate water
and sanitation services; (iv) health, safety, emmission and waste disposal
issues during operation of the training centers.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Luis Guillermo Hakim
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Fax: 202-477-8642
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November
3, 2000.
-6-



