Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7189-EGT 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Skills Development Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Dated September 16, 2003 
 
Page  2
-1- 
 
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7189-EGT 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 2003, between the ARAB REPUBLIC OF 
EGYPT (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B) 
the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia, 
of
the foregoing, to extend 
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. (a) The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Paragraph 22 of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions shall be 
modified as follows: 
 
"22. "Fixed Spread" means the Bank's fixed spread of 0.50%
in respect of 
the initial Loan Currency, provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or any 
portion of the unwithdrawn principal amount of the Loan, such fixed spread shall 
be adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion 
Guidelines." 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
"Beneficiary Firms" means private sector firms referred to in paragraph B 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual (as this term is hereinafter defined); 
Page  4
-2- 
(b) 
"BOT" means the Board of Trustees established and maintained in 
accordance with paragraph A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
"Financial Monitoring Report" or "FMR" means each report 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
"MITD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Industry and Technological 
Development, or any successor thereof; 
 
(e) 
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any successor 
thereof; 
 
(f) 
"Operational Manual" means the Project Operational Manual, dated May 6, 
2003, setting forth the procedures, guidelines, criteria, terms of references and formats 
acceptable to the Bank and required for carrying out the Project, as such manual may be 
updated from time to time by agreement of the Borrower's MITD and the Bank; 
 
(g) 
"PIs" means Project intermediaries including, 
inter alia, 
departments or 
units of businessmen/investors associations, federations, or chambers related to the 
selected sectors involved in providing or managing training and/or training related  
services, referred to in paragraph B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and selected in 
accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in this Agreement and the Operational 
Manual; 
 
(h) 
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit, referred to in paragraph A.2 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this 
Agreement; 
 
(j) 
"Training Providers" means the entities involved in providing training 
referred to in paragraph B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and selected in accordance 
with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
 
(k) 
"Training Sub-projects" means any activity under Part B of the Project for 
the provision of training to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
Page  5
-3- 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million five hundred 
thousand United States dollars (US$5,500,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts paid (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) on account of withdrawals made by the 
Borrower under a Training Sub-project, to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for such Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account 
is requested, and in respect of interest and other charges in respect of the Loan, the front-
end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar referred to in Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may through MITD, for the purposes of the Project open 
and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
Page  6
-4- 
at the Variable Rate as defined in paragraph 47 of Section 2.01 of the General 
Conditions; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount 
of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15
th
 
and August 15
th
 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 2.01(7) of 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable 
in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated 
from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance 
for the purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with respect 
to the Loan. 
 
Page  7
-5- 
Section 2.11. MITD is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall through MITD, carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, 
environmental, financial, management and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through 
MITD, carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and with the Operational Manual. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, through MITD: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, through MITD, ensure that Training Subprojects 
are appraised and implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through MITD, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a 
Page  8
-6- 
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MITD: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, through 
MITD: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
Page  9
-7- 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower's MITD progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through MITD, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the  
 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)  
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement in accordance with Article XII of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
for the purposes of the financial management system referred to under 
Article IV of this Agreement, the Borrower has through MITD, retained a financial 
management firm with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and the 
said firm has commenced the implementation of the financial management system; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower has through MITD, established the PMU referred to in 
paragraph A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, with staff in adequate numbers and with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
Page  10
-8- 
 
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of State for Foreign Affairs of the Borrower and the 
Under Secretary of State for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations, 
International Cooperation Sector of said Ministry of the Borrower, are severally designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
 
(International Cooperation Sector) 
 
8
Adly Street 
 
Cairo, Egypt 
 
Cable 
Address: 
     Facsimile: 
 
Ministry 
of 
Foreign 
Affairs 
   (202) 
391 
2815 
 
(International Cooperation Sector) 
 
 
(202) 391 5167 
 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
Address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
 
Page  11
-9- 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Christiaan Poortman 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  12
-10- 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
     % of  
 
(Expressed in 
 
 Expenditures 
 
Category
United States dollars
to be Financed
(1) Training 
Sub-projects  
4,895,000 
85% 
 
(2) Front-end 
fee 
 
55,000 
Amount 
due 
under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(3) 
Premia for Interest 
 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps 
 
Section 2.09(c) of 
 
and Interest Rate Collars   
this Agreement 
 
(4) Unallocated 
 
550,000 
_____________ 
 TOTAL 
5,500,000 
 
============  
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
3.  
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for Training Sub-projects costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
Page  13
-11- 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in carrying out a pilot program 
to stimulate the private sector demand for skills training development through a demand-
driven and competitively-based mechanism. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A:
Awareness Program and Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of technical advisory services to: (i) carry out an awareness, promotion 
and outreach program to acquaint selected targeted private sector small and medium 
enterprises, training providers, businessmen/investors associations, federations and 
chambers with training opportunities available under the Project; (ii) carry out surveys, 
studies and assessments to monitor and evaluate the Project outcomes; (iii) enable eligible 
Beneficiary Firms for developing training needs assessment and training plans; (iv) enable 
eligible Training Providers for developing training proposals; and (v) enable eligible Pls for 
developing aggregated training proposals. 
 
Part B:
Training Sub-projects
Provision of financial support for carrying out a demand-driven training program 
on a cost-sharing basis; and strengthening the institutional capacity of eligible Pls. 
 
Part C:
Project Management
Provision of goods and technical advisory services for: (i) strengthening the 
institutional capacity of the PMU; and (ii) conducting the monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project inputs, processes and outputs. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  14
-12- 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date by (b) the Installment Share for each 
Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
Installment Share 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15
th
 and August 15
th
 
Beginning August 15
th
,
2008 
through August 15
th
,
2019 4.17% 
 
On February 15
th
,
2020 4.09% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a)  
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid 
on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such 
repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
Page  15
-13- 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on 
each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if 
at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such subparagraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to 
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
5.  
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall 
apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce 
a
separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  16
-14- 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section I. 
 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures, all in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 under Part B of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  17
-15- 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the first two (2) contracts for goods to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 under Part C of this 
Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1. 
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, 
January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph I of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of of this Section II. 
 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants' services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  18
-16- 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.  
Single 
Source 
Selection
Services for the implementation of Training Sub-projects under Part B of the 
Project, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2.  
Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests 
for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the execution of the 
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval. 
Selection of all consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection 
plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms to be selected in accordance with the procedures referred 
to in paragraph 1 under Part C of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 
and 5 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for employment of consuling firms estimated 
to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent, terms of reference, short lists, cost estimates and the 
first five (5) contracts shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference, cost estimates and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix I to the 
Page  19
-17- 
Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(d)  
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent, terms of reference, short lists and 
contracts shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  20
-18- 
SCHEDULE 5  
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1.  
The Borrower shall vest MITD with the overall responsibility of the Project 
implementation. For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination and overall 
management of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain within MITD, the BOT to be 
chaired by the Minister of Industry and Technological Development, and shall include 
representatives of all Project stakeholders as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
(a) 
For the purpose of ensuring the proper execution of the Project, the 
Borrower shall cause MITD to maintain the PMU with organization, staffing and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MITD, cause the PMU to: (i) maintain 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the overall coordination and supervision of Project 
implementation; (ii) appoint not later than February 29, 2004, consultants with 
qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the 
Operational Manual to assist in the carrying out of the Project; (iii) ensure that PIs are 
selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and (iv) ensure 
that Training Sub-projects under Part B of the Project shall be made in accordance with the 
requirements and other details set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
(c)  
The Borrower shall, through MITD, ensure that the PMU shall: (i) prepare 
annual work plans, budgets and quarterly reports in accordance with the Operational 
Manual; (ii) furnish to the Bank not later than October 1st of each year, the proposed 
annual work plans and budget for the following year, and (iii) afford the Bank at 
the most one month thereafter to review such proposed annual work plans and budget. 
 
B. Training 
Sub-projects
1. Eligibility 
Criteria
(a) 
The Borrower shall cause MITD to ensure that the PIs, Training Providers 
and Beneficiary Firms are selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual. Selecting PIs shall be made in accordance with criteria and procedures 
specified in the Operational Manual including, 
inter alia, 
that eligible PIs: (i) are legally 
registered as Egyptian non-profit non-governmental organizations governed by Law No. 84 
of 2002; (ii) have experience in managing training activities for small and medium 
enterprises on both technical and soft skills; and (iii) have capacity to manage training 
programs financed on a cost-shared basis. 
 
Page  21
-19- 
(b) 
The Borrower shall through MITD, ensure that no expenditures shall be 
made under Category (1), set out in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
unless the Borrower's MITD is satisfied that the Training Sub-project sought to be financed 
meets the eligibility criteria specified in paragraph B.1(c) of this Schedule and the 
procedures, terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
(c) 
An eligible Training Sub-project shall: (i) support the provision of training 
to an eligible Beneficiary Firm, namely a small and medium enterprise, employing more 
than ten (10) but less than five hundred (500) employees and located within the service 
domain of an eligible PI; (ii) target employees whose work is directly related to the 
production process within an eligible Beneficiary Firm; (iii) support Beneficiary Firms 
providing a contribution to the training costs in accordance with the Operational Manual; 
and (iv) not finance any Training Sub-project proposal exceeding US$400,000. 
 
2. 
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause MITD to proceed 
according to the following procedures: 
 
(a) 
The eligible Beneficiary Firms shall develop training needs assessments 
and shall submit same to the PIs for review in accordance with the Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
Based on the training needs assessments submitted by the eligible 
Beneficiary Firms, the selected PIs shall develop an aggregate needs assessment and 
submit requests for proposals to the eligible Training Providers. 
 
(c) 
The eligible Training Providers shall, based on the demand driven requests 
for proposals, develop training program proposals for submission to the PIs. 
 
(d) 
The PIs shall carry out an assessment of the training program proposals, 
and submit a request to the PMU for assessment in order to finance: (i) the selected training 
program to be carried out by the Training Providers; and (ii) the cost of managing the 
training program to be carried out by the PIs, in accordance with the Operational Manual. 
 
(e) 
MITD shall, through the PMU: (i) ensure that Training Sub-
projects are identified, appraised, furnished to the Bank for review, and approved in 
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual; and  
(ii) ensure that appropriate contractual arrangements are made with the PIs selected in 
accordance with the Operational Manual for the carrying out of Training Sub-projects. 
 
C. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MITD: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
Page  22
-20- 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank, on or about September 30, 2005, a mid-term 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2005, or such later date as  
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter. 
 
Page  23
-21- 
SCHEDULE  6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
 the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of US$600,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
US$300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
US$1,500,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall through 
MITD, furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower's MITD shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
through MITD, furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
through MITD, furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
Page  24
-22- 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower's MITD shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower through MITD, out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall through MITD, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment 
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower's MITD shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  25
-23- 
6.  
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank 
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.  
 
(b)  
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank 
such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  26
-24- 
 
