D _anM of.
The World Bank
Foa omCuL USE ONLY
Uquit No P-4095*
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$28.0 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 22, 1985
Thb dj.me.t I  a u      d_gubdlkn .d my be no bY relpkmb uW i. th Pehc I
I  thr .ehI doIu. lb m omaynf  iK eamhuw   be dbdus wthm  Wwii Bmmk   hedwi.in.I



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984           December 1984
Currency Unit       Jordanian Dinar (JD)                JD
US$1.00                   J JD .384                   JD .403
JD 1.00         =         US$2.60                     US$2.48
Exchange rate used in Appraisal Report: JD I = US$2.50
GOVERNDENT OF JORDAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CVDB                   Cities and Villages Development Bank
3B                     H Housing Bank
JEC          =         Jordan Housing Corporation
LIHEF        =         Low Income Housing Revolving Fund
MM~RAE       =         Ministry of Municipal and Rural
Affairs and the Environment
MOP                    M Ministry of PlannIng
SSC          =         Social Security Corporation
UDD          =         Urban Development Department
UDP          =         Urban Development Project
USAID        =         United States Agency for International
Development



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
RASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiaries:         The Urban Development Department (UDD) of the Amman
Municipality and the Housing Bank (HE).
Amount:                US$28.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                 15 years, including 3 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Oulending Terms:       The Borrower would onlend $12.5 million of the proposed
loan to the HB for items whose costs are recoverable from
property sales. The maturity and grace period for the
onlent funds would be the same as under the Bank loan (15
and 3 years, respectively); the interest rate would be
fixed at the rate in effect at the time of loan signing.
The remainder of the Bank funds would be made available as
a grant to the UDD for social facilities whose costs are
non-recoverable from project beneficiaries. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
fluctuation risks.
Project Description:   The project is part of the Government's long-term program
to provide shelter for poorer urban dwellers. It aims at
improving the living conditions of low-income people in the
Amman region by providing shelter at affordable prices
without subsidy to ensure the project's replicability;
encouraging sound growth patterns through stimulating urban
development in appropriate locations and at lower
infrastructure cost than under traditional practice; and
strengthening institutional capacities in Jordan to
undertake low-income shelter and urbanization projects.
The project includes the following major components: (a)
upgrading two low-income squatter settlements that house
about 4,200 people; (b) servicing land in four sites for
about 3,400 plots with initial occupancy by about 24,000
people; and (c) providing technical assistance to the UDD
for project design, project planning and supervision,
studies and advice on management and financial issues. The
project would benefit a substantial portion of the
population of Greater Amman, a quarter of whom fall below
the poverty threshhold, and provide for shelter at lower
economic costs than existing alternatives. The principal
project risk concerns the uncertain marketability of plots
in times of economic slowdown. The project, however,
includes features to minimize the risk.
This document bs a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
lheir offic dus. ts contents may not oterwie be didosed witbout World Dank authoziation.



- is -
Estimated CostsLL:                             Local        Forei         Total
US$ million
Upgrading                                    3.7           2.0          5.7
Sites and Services                          39.2          20.6         59.8
Project Management                           2.7           1.2          3.9
Studies                                      0.3           0.8          1.1
Base Costs                                45.9          24.6         70.5
Physical Contingencies                       2.7           2.5          5.2
Price Contingencies                          7.0           5.8         12.8
TOTAL                                   55.6          32.9         88.5
Financing Plan:
Housing Rank                             )          )                  22.3
Low Income Housing Revolving Fund        ) 37.4   )        3.1          1.2
Beneficiaries                            )          )                  17.0
Government                                  18.2           1.8         20.0
World Bank                                   0.0          28.0         28.0
TOTAL                                55.6         32.9          88.5
Estimated Disbursements:                            Bank FY
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
US$ mmllion
Annual                          0.5    4.8   11.3    9.5    1.6    0-3
Cumulative                      0.5    5.3   16.6   26.1   27.7   28.0
Rate of Return:    14 percent.
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 5569-JO, dated May 16, 1985.
Maps:              Numbers IBRD 16512R, 18802.
1/ Includes custom duties and taxes (2.3 percent of total project costs).



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR A SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan of US$28.0 million equivalent to help
finance a Second Urban Development Project.  The loan would be for 15 years,
including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government would onlend US$12.5 million to the Housing Bank for items whose
*    costs are recoverable from property sales.  The maturity and grace period
would be the same as under the Bank loan (15 and 3 years, respectively); the
interest rate would be fixed at the rate in effect at the time of loan
signing. The Government would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
fluctuation risks. The remainder of the Bank loan would be made available to
the Urban Development Department of Amman Municipality as a grant for social
facilities.
PART I -  THE ECONOMY"'
2.       A report entitled "Jordan Review of the Five-Year Plan" (No. 4129-JO,
dated May 1983) was distributed to the Executive Diiectors in June 1983. An
economic mission visited the country in May/June 1983; its findings have been
included in the present text. Z  Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Economic Developments
3.       Conscious of the country's limited natural resources, its relatively
narrow productive base and the sensitiveness of the economy to changes in its
oil-rich regional environment, the Government has pursued liberal,
outward-looking policies in trade, labor migration and foreign exchange. This
has enabled Jordan to alleviate the effects of a very high natural population
growth rate (3.4 percent) through massive emigration stimulated by high
salaries in the neighboring countries and through rapid expansion of domestic
production fueled by an exceptionally high investment rate and rapidly growing
export demand. At present, a large part of Jordan's total workforce is
employed abroad. In addition to sizable workers' remittance inflows, Jordan
has benefited from large inflows of grant aid from neighboring countries as
well as from a rapid increase in regional demand for its exports. During the
period 1976-82, the yearly inflow of workers' remittances and grants reached
on average close to two-thirds of Jordan's GDP. The abundant supply of these
resources and a favorable entrepreneurial climate enabled Jordan to maintain
both very high consumption and investment rates.
4.       As a result, the Jordanian economy expanded rapidly with an annual
average GDP growth rate of over 10 percent in real terms during the 1976-82
period; almost full employment was reached. The overall balance of payments
remained strong despite a large chronic deficit in merchandise trade.
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Primary Health Care Project (P-4024-JO), which was approved by the
Executive Directors on May 7, 1985.
2/ All references are to the East Bank of Jordan.



- 2 -
Although exports of goods and non-factor services (primarily agricultural
products, manufactured goods, tourism and exports of the new commodities,
fertilizers and potash) grew at a rapid rate of about 16 percent in real terms
during 1976-82, its small base in relation to imports led to a continuous
deterioration of the resource gap. These trade deficits, however, were almost
fully covered by factor income and transfers from abroad. Government-
guaranteed external borrowing remained therefore within reasonable limits and
borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a modest level (para. 14).
5.       Beginning in 1982, however, the economic slowdown in the neighboring
countries has affected the Jordanian economy in many ways; it led to a
slowdown of domestic economic activity and a reduction in the inflow of
external transfers. The overall economic growth rate slowed to about
5.5 percent (in real terms) in 1983, still a satisfactory performance
considering the present unfavorable economic environment; foreign grant aid
was about 25 percent lower, and workers' remittances stagnated while exports
of manufactured goods and services to neighboring countries declined. The
effect of these factors was exacerbated by a marked decline in exports of raw
and processed minerals.  Imports also declined, in line with the sizable
reduction in public and private investments. As a result, the current account
deficit for 1983 showed only a slight increase to $390 million. It was mainly
covered by the proceeds of a $225 million Eurodollar loan contracted in early
1983. Jordan also drew on its reserves, which remained, however, equal to
three months of imports. Preliminary estimates for 1984 show the decline in
merchandise imports continuing which, combined with an increase in exports of
goods, contributed to an improvement in the balance of trade, from a deficit
of nearly $2.4 billion in 1983 to about $2.0 billion in 1984. A slight
reduction in official transfers was more than offset by the decline in
imports, and the current account deficit improved to $229.3 million.
6.       With the decline in Government revenues from grants, public
investment has been reduced, and the Government has further intensified its
domestic resource mobilization efforts through cuts in subsidies and improved
collection of direct and indirect taxes (about 99 percent of recurrent
expenditures is covered by domestic revenues).
7.       The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobilizing savings and
controlling domestic liquidity. Private savings have improved, but public
savings have continued to be negative because of the high level of defense
expenditures. To promote domestic savings, greater discretion is being
allowed the Central Bank in adjusting interest rates and banking commissions.
As a result of increases in deposit rates in 1983, savings deposits rose
faster than the money supply. A parallel situation materialized in 1984
though both savings deposits and the money supply grew at slower rates in that
year. Together with a marked decline in inflation to 4.5 percent in 1984,
these increases have resulted in interest rates becoming substantially
positive again in real terms.
Medium-Term Prospects
8.       Given the changed situation and outlook in the neighboring oil
producing countries, continuing GDP growth in the 9-11 percent range as
projected by the 1981-85 Plan would no longer appear feasible in the medium
term; a rate in the neighborhood of 5 percent per annum in real terms appears



more likely during the next Plan (1986-90). This projection assumes a
reduction in the exceptionally high level of investments achieved during the
early 1980s, which was mainly due to implementation of a number of major new
projects such as potash, fertilizer and a refinery, now at initial stages of
production. While the new, major natural resource-based industries have
provided some new employment opportunities in the short term, the economic
slowdown is likely to change the manpower situation in Jordan from one of
selective shortages to one of general excess supply requiring finding
employment for a rapidly increasing domestic workforce (para. 12).
9.       The industrial sector (including mining, manufacturing and
construction) is expected to continue to lead the growth of GDP and exports.
The new industries are expected to contribute more than one third towards
incremental GDP during 1984-85. Together with an expansion of phosphate
mining and cement production, total industrial output would grow at a brisk
annual rate of about 10.8 percent for 1984-85 but slow down to an underlying
rate of 7.5 percent per annum for the period 1987-90. Since the rapid
expansion of infrastructure and private housing during the boom years of the
1970s and early 1980s has slowed down substantially, the construction industry
is likely to grow at a substantially lower rate (3 percent) during 1986-90.
Thus, industrial growth during the next plan period will have to rely
increasingly on development of more small and medium-scale higher technology
manufacturing, largely for exports. The projected 7.5 percent for industrial
growth assumes that adjustment of the industrial sector in this direction will
be achieved, inter alia through changes in protection policies and
improvements in export incentives.
10.      Curtailment in growth of public expenditures and the slowdown in
domestic and foreign demand for banking and transportation services are
expected to slow down growth of services to an average annual rate of a little
over 3 percent per annum for 1984-87. In particular, it is expected that the
transportation sector and the hotel industry, which at present are facing
large surplus capacity, will undergo a period of consolidation. In the trade
sector, efficiency gains from modernization would likely be offset by
increased pressure from higher unemployment to expand the less efficient
informal sector of trade. In contrast to the expected slow growth performance
of traditional private services, the prospects are favorable to exploit
Jordan's potential in skilled labor and meet the demand for special services
in areas such as consulting, contracting, and maintenance. Agriculture is
projected to continue to grow by about 5 percent per annum. Overall, the
sectoral growth rates would enable Jordan to maintain a comfortable GDP growth
rate of about 5 percent per annum for 1984-85, which would seem sustainable
throughout the 1980s.
11.      On the external balance side, the projections assume that exports of
goods and non-factor services would grow by an average rate of about 8 percent
per annum in real terms for 1985-90. Exports from the output of previous and
new industrial, natural resource-based projects to the world market would make
the largest contribution to this growth performance. The export projections
for the later 1980s assume that adequate measures are taken to develop
Jordan's manufacturing exports. The external balance projections assume that
imports would increase less rapidly because of the slow overall economic
growth rate and the expected sizable reduction in the level of investments
after completion of the major industrial projects. Even though merchandise
exports are projected to approach a high rate of increase while imports would



- 4 -
grow at a significantly lower rate, the trade deficit could remain large and
exceed the $2.1 billion mark in 1985. In relation to GDP, however, the
resource gap is expected to show a further decline from about 51 percent in
1984 to about 42 percent in 1987. Unlike the past, net workers' remittances
and foreign grants, which are likely to decline, may not be sufficient to meet
the growing trade deficit. Jordan therefore would have to rely more on
external borrowing (para. 15). In order to maintain its prudent build-up of
external debt, Jordan will need to combine externAl borrowing with increased
efforts to mobilize domestic resources, particularly in the public sector.
Social Issues
12.      Due to the substantial migration of Jordanian workers to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the labor market situation has been
characterized until recently by selective manpower shortages. However,
according to recent manpower projections, supply of labor in Jordan in the
medium term is likely to show selective surpluses, particularly throughout
certain categories of skilled professionals. In 1983, it is estimated that
312,000 Jordanians were working abroad compared to a total domestic employment
of about 570,000. Domestic employment includes at present a relatively large
number of foreign workers currently estimated at about 130,000, half of whom
are unskilled.  A comprehensive manpower and training plan is needed to help
ensure that the education and training system is geared to meet both domestic
and external demands for manpower.
13.      The Government has emphasized social issues in the current Five-Year
Plan (1981-85). Although the social indicators are relatively favorable in
most sectors, social services are unevenly distributed across income groups
and between urban and rural areas. Housing remains a problem despite the boom
in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs have far exceeded the means of the
lower income groups.
External Assistance
14.      With the large, chronic trade deficit offset by inflows of
remittances and foreign transfers, the current account of the balance of
payments was on average in equilibrium through 1975-81. Net workers'
remittances increased from about $160 million in 1975 to about $900 million in
1983 and 1984. Following the Baghdad Arab Sucmmit Conference in November 1978,
which pledged assistance of about $1.2 billion per year over a 10-year period,
net foreign grant aid rose from $400-500 million in 1977-78 to about
$1.3 billion in 1980 and 1981; it declined to some $0.8 billion in 1983 and to
$0.7 billion in 1984. This decline was the main reason for the current
account deficits of $390 million in 1983, and $230 million in 1984, both of
which were financed largely by external borrowing and partly by drawing on
reserves. The external public debt outstanding and disbursed reached
$2.2 billion at the end of 1984 (about 49 percent of GNP). External debt
service payments amounted to $319 million in 1984 or 9.8 percent of total
exports of goods and services.
15.      Jordan's impressive growth, pragmatic economic and social policies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large amounts of
foreign assistance. The grant component of this foreign assistance is
projected to decline gradually in real terms over the next few years. The
projections on that basis indicate a need for average gross external borrowing



- 5 -
of about $0.9 billion over the 1985-1990 period, mostly in later years. While
bilateral and multilateral sources can be expected to provide the bulk of
external resources, Jordan is likely to resort increasingly to the financial
markets, and this would result in a hardening of loan terms. On these
assumptions, the debt service ratio as a percentage of exports of goods and
services is projected to reach 11.3 percent by 1990. Given this outlook and
the country's record of prudent management, Jordan remains creditworthy for
Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS''
16.      Jordan has received 17 Bank loans totalling $424.3 million and 15 IDA
credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations), of which all the
credits and two loans have been fully disbursed. Project implementation and
disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory. In recent years,
disbursements have amounted to about 50-60 percent of appraisal estimates.
IFC has made investments in Jordan with total commitments of $94.2 million.
Annex II contains a sumaary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1985.
17.      Under its last two development plans, Jordan has aimed at
restructuring its economy to achieve a wider manufacturing base, to reduce its
dependence on external grants, and to spread the benefits of development among
different regions. The Bank's strategy has been tailored to support those
objectives and in particular is designed to help the Government: (a) to
diversify the country's economic base and promote exports; (b) to alleviate
manpower and infrastructure constraints in the productive sectors; and (c) to
encourage more balanced growth and distribution of social services among
regions and income groups, with particular emphasis on low-income groups.
18.      Within this broad framework, past lending has emphasized support for
capital infrastructure and manpower development. Since 1962, Bank Group
lending has focussed on water supply and sewerage, power and energy
development, education and urban and municipal development. The Bank Group
has also 'ent for irrigation, agricultural and industrial credit,
transportation, and tour'sm- In addition, the Bank Group has financed
technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding
phosphate rock mining. An engineering credit was made in. FY75 to help prepare
a large project for potash production from the Dead Sea via solar evaporation,
for which a loan was approved in September 1978. These projects have been
designed with an emphasis on institution building to assist the agencies
involved to develop their capabilities to plan, prepare, and implement
projects on their own. In addition to the proposed urban development project,
future lending would include projects for mining, transportation, water supply
and sewerage, power and energy development, and industry. IFC has provided
loans and equity contributions for a major fertilizer project and for projects
in the construction materials subsector. It has also assisted the capital
market and leasing ventures.
1/ This section is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the Primary Health Care Project (P-4024-JO), which
was approved by the Board on May 7, 1985.



- 6 -
19.      The Bank has recently helped the Government to review the energy,
water supply, health, and urban sectors, and the Bank's economic and sector
work will continue to focus on strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base
for our lending program. The Bank's economic work program aims to deepen and
broadeiq the well-established policy dialogue with the Government in three
priority areas: (i) development planning, with a focus on resource
mobilization and allocation; (ii) industrial and trade policies, including
technology transfer and export strategy/promotion and industrial subsector
studies; and (iii) regional development and equity and efficiency of
government revenues and social expenditures. These subjects are crucial
because the substantially tighter balance of payments situation expecced for
the rest of the decade calls for increased efforts to step up domestic
resource mobilization, to stimulate manufactured exports and to optimize
resource allocation, while making particular efforts to reduce rural and urban
poverty.
20.      At the end of 1983, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 12 percent, and its share in debt
service was 5 percent. In 1985, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding
and in debt service are expected to be about 13 and 8.5 percent respectively.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
The Settins
21.      Jordan-'is a highly urbanized country.  Fr,l1owing three decades of
rapid population growth and massive immigration, about 70 percent of its
2.6 million population lives in urban areas of 5,000 people or more.  By the
year 2000, Jordan's urban population is expected to increase by some
2 million.  Unemployment is expected to become an increasing problem, since
the labor force is rising at about 6 percent per annum while domestic and
external demand for Jordanian labor is weakening.  Given its scarcity of
natural resources, limited arable land and water and small domestic market,
Jordan's future economic growth and employment must depend upon export-based
manufactures and services. In an era of expected slower economic growth, the
development and management of efficient and cost-effective services and
infrastructure in urban areas to support these activities, as well as to
improve the welfare of a rapidly increasing urban population, are crucial
challenges facing Jordan.
22.      Jordan's population is highly concentrated.  Most of its urban
population lives within 30 kilometers of the capital, Amman, which itself
accounts for over 750,000 people. This area produces most of the country's
services and manufacturing industrial output. While the Government is taking
active measures to stimulate growth in other areas, the Amman region is
expected to accommodate most of the growth in population for the remainder of
this century and to continue its role as the main engine for Jordan's economic
development. With the very rapid increase in the Amman region's population,
lack of low-cost housing and proliferation of slums have emerged as pressing
problems.  Up to 26 percent of households in the Ammian urban region have
incomes below the Bank-defined urban poverty threshold of JD 140/month.
1/ Data in the text which follows refer to the East Bank of Jordan.



The most rapid population growth in the Anman region is occurring outside the
Municipality, typically in new areas with low land costs, but with high costs
of infrastructure services. Given limited budgets, many areas, especially
those inhabitec by the poor, are inadequately served. The prospect of low and
uncertain economic growth implies a continuing need for the Government to be
concerned with providing services for less fortunate citizens.
Institutional Framework
23.      Several government corporations or authorities provide services or
coordinate local functions, including, most notably, the Cities and Villages
Development Bank, which lends to local governments; the Jordan Housing
Corporation, which develops housing for moderate-income and public sector
employees; the Housing Bank, which finances housing, usually for moderate and
upper income groups; the Water Authority of Jordan, which is responsible for
water production and distribution and sewerage works; and the Jordan Electric
Power Company, responsible for electricity distribution. Local governments
have an essential role to play, especially in transport, roads, solid waste
management, land use planning, health controls, provision of markets, a
variety of licensing functions and, in some areas, investments in schools and
health centers. For purposes of local administration, about
135 municipalities ar.-; bier 300 villages report to the Ministry of
Municipalities and Rural Affairs and the Environment (MMRAE). The MMRAE is
responsible for regional physical planning and assists municipal and village
councils in most of the smaller urban centers with technical tasks (e.g.,
planning, design) and budgetary procedures. The Municipality of Amman is by
far the most important local government in Jordan and has a unique political
status: the Lord Mayor has ministerial rank, its budget is approved by the
Prime Minister rather than the MMRAE, and it is responsible for its own
planning standards.
24.      There are several weaknesses in the provision of local services,
including the multiplicity of institutions, overcentralization of authority
within specific organizations, and personnel policies and levels of
remuneration that make it difficult to attract and retain qualified staff.
Local government management, planning, and finance need to be further
reinforced to enable municipalities to prepare and implement investment
programs to meet the needs of a rapidly growing urban population. Better
planning and coordination of public investments in different sectors at the
regional as well as city level will become increasingly important in avoiding
waste and encouraging efficient patterns of urban development. A general
problem in providing services has been urban sprawl, and in Greater Amman,
population density has actually been decreasing for this reason. The result
has been over-investment in infrastructure networks, due to weak planning
controls, low taxes on land and subsidized provision of services which reduce
pressures to develop land in serviced areas. Given the vital economic role of
the Amman region, and the increasing scale and complexity of services, special
attention is required to strengthening planning there. The Government has
begun to deal with all these issues (paras. 29-31).
Shelter
25.      Mbst housing in Jordan is provided by the private sector and consists
of one to three-storey detached buildings, usually with provisions for vertical



and horizontal expansions. Around 11 percent of the urban population lives in
official refugee camps administered by the United Nations Relief and Works
Administration. Some 7 percent of the urban population lives in low-income
squatter settlements, many comprising overflows from nearby refugee camps,
which are characterized by illegal tenures and serious deficiencies in
infrastructural and social services. Squatting on government lands on the
urban fringe of Amman, while a relatively new phenomenon not yet involving
many people, has been increasing in recent years. A low degree of direct cost
recovery from beneficiaries for infrastructure, together with limited
resources available for infrastructure investments, means that poorer
neighborhoods tend to suffer more service deficiencies than richer ones.
26.      Substantial resources have been mobilized for housing investment
which, fuelled by workers' remittances, has exceeded plan targets considerably
and in 1976-1980 came to about 6 percent of GNP. The crux of the shelter
problem is not a shortage of housing overall, but its high cost, which forces
poorer families to live in overcrowded conditions. Occupancy in the squatter
areas is estimated at over four persons per room, compared with a national
average of about 2.6. One reason is that land and building costs, triggered
by large inflows of workers' remittances, have risen faster than incomes in
the last decade. Second, although the Jordan 'Landlord/tenant legislation
allows landlords freedom in setting rents on new buildings, it contains no
provision for rent increases; tenants have complete security of tenure, with
the result that some landlords prefer to keep apartments vacant for long
periods rather than lease them. However, rental ceilings were raised in 1983,
and rents on new properties appear to have stabilized in the last few years.
The question of rent controls is being reviewed as part of the housing sector
strategy study under the First Urban Development Project (para. 31). The main
cause of the problem for low-income people, however, is excessively costly
building and planning standards including, most notably, minimnm plot sizes of
300 m2, which are unaffordable to poorer persons. The cheapest private
sector accommodations for sale with financing require monthly mortgage
payments of more than JD 100 per month, which is unaffordable to families in
the lower two thirds of the Amman region income distribution.
27.      The Government's basic response in the past to the high housing cost
problem has been to establish subsidized housing funds (those for the
military, police and teachers provide zero interest rate loan;) and to
encourage construction and sale of housing by the Jordan HousLng Corporation
(JHC) with rates of interest to beneficiaries of about 8 percent. The
1981-1985 Development Plan stressed the expansion of housing for lower and
middle income groups and proposed that the JHC produce approximately one
quarter of new housing, an increase in its output from 1,500 to 4,000 units
per year. This strategy has not met the need for low-income housing since JHC
housing, even with subsidy, is unaffordable to families in the lower half of
the Amman income distribution. The Government, with the Bank-supported First
Urban Development Project (UDPl), is now developing an alternative approach
that involves provision of less initial accommodation on individual plots of
land with room for progressive construction by households, cross subsidization
between sales at market prices and sales to target group beneficiaries, and
provision of the full range of social and infrastructural facilities required
for sound urban development (para. 34).



-9-
Government Actions in the Sector
28.      The Bank's Urban Sectcr Review (No. 3965-JO, dated June 22, 1983)
identified a number of key policy issues requiring priority attention. These
included: (i) reviewing the organization and staffing of institutions
concerned with urban management; (ii) strengthening Amman Municipality's
organization, staffing and finances; (iii) establishing effective planning
machinery for the Amman region; (iv) incorporating regional planning
considerations into Ministry of Planning (MOP) procedures; (v) encouraging
more cost-effective and economic development patterns by inter alia increasing
land taxes and improving control over the public domain; (vi) developing a
country-wide housing policy and allocating institutional responsibility for
its monitoring and implementation; and (vii) improving shelter (infrastructure
and housing) to lower income groups who are under-served by existing practice.
29.      The Government is cognizant of these issues and has been moving
effectively to address them. The current Five-Year Plan (1981-85) allocates
$825 million or 8.8 percent of public sector investment for public housing, as
well as significant amounts for other urban services such as water, sewerage,
and electricity. The incorporation of spatial planning considerations on a
regional basis is being addressed through the establishment in MOP of a
regional planning section. A comprehensive survey throughout Jordan of basic
needs and potential for income-generating projects is now being undertaken by
the MOP with technical assistance from USAID as an input for the aext
Five-Year Plan (1986-90); as a consequence the Plan is expected to incorporate
a much stronger regional development emphasis.
30.      The Municipality of A-man is in the process of improving management
of its engineering services, investment programing, and fi-ancial planning.
The Municipality has recently appointed a financial officer and has
established a Capital Improvement Program Group, which is introducing
systematic investment programing into municipal government for the first
time. Furthermore, a working party, under the chairmanship of the Lord Mayor
of Anman, and with the assistance of consultants, is studying the
institutional changes required to establish effective regional planning
machinery for Greater Amman and is also preparing master plans and investment
plans for the region.
31.      With regard to developing a housing policy, including institutional
arrangements for the sector, funds for carrying out a housing strategy study
v    were included under UDP1. The Government subsequently decided to use grant
funds for this study, and experts financed by USAID and UN Habitat will
supplement an in-house MOP team, which is expected to complete the study by
December 31, 1986 after which the Government would discuss its findings with
the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(a)). The Government has also taken
some steps to encourage more economic development patterns by revaluing land
for taxation purposes. Through UDP1 and the proposed project, the Government
is experimenting with more cost-effective, low-income shelter.
Bank Group Role in the Sector
32.      Bank Group assistance has been responsive to the problems created by
rapid urbanization. Extensive economic and sector work has been carried out,
as well as project financing related to urban development in Jordan. Recent



- 10 -
studies include the previously cited Urban Sector Review, the Water Sector
Report and a regional development study. The Bank also plans to carry out a
study on mnincipal management, with special emphasis on resource mobilization
and taxation at the local level. Based on discussions of these reports, the
Bank's strategy in the sector includes assistance for:  (i) improving main
urban service levels (water, sewerage, solid waste management, urban
transportation); (ii) increasing the supply of serviced land, with cost
recovery, in locations and at costs that reinforce sound spatial development
patterns and are affordable to relevant commercial and household groups;
(iii) improving physical and development planning in Amman and other urban
centers where most future development will occur; and (iv) strengthening the
capacity of local governments to plan, implement, and manage the functions for
which they are responsible.
33.      In support of the above strategy, a "three track" lending approach is
currently being followed, i.e. (i) water and sewerage projects, (ii) shelter
projects and (iii) municipal projects. Seven water and sewerage projects have
been undertaken in urban areas. The Cities and Villages Development Bank
(CVDB) loan ($10 million, Loan No. 1826-JO, 1980) has the objective of
strengthening CVDB so it can help local governments provide urban services for
their populations. A second loan to CVDB is scheduled to be presented to the
Bank's Board of Executive Directors in early fiscal year 1986. The Amman
Transport and Municipal Development Project ($30 million, Loan No. 2334-JO,
1983) aims to help Anman Municipality ameliorate traffic problems, upgrade the
capacity of the relevant municipal departments to plan and execute works
(including maintenance and operation functions), to upgrade solid waste
m      gement, and to initiate systematic investment programming.  With the
exception of some of the earlier water supply and sewerage projects, no
Project Completion Reports have been undertaken in the urban sector, since the
projects are still under execution.
34.      UDPI (Loan 1983-JO, $21 million, 1980) is addressing the need for
cost-effective, low-cost housing in the A-an region. The project is being
executed by the Urban Development Department (UDD) of Ammnan Municipality
(para. 40), which was set up expressly for this purpose. UDP1 extends beyond
narrowly defined shelter to provide both sites and services and upgrading
areas with appropriate educational, health, and community facilities. The
upgrading of sites has been completed. Occupation of the new sites started in
December 1984 and is expected to be completed during the first half of 1986.
Over 12,000 families in the low-income target group have applied for about
2,130 beneficiary housing plots, and early sales of housing at market prices
are also brisk. The project also includes vocational and commercial training
for the urban poor by the Vocational Training Corporation, with special
emphasis on increasing female participation in the labor force. A scheme to
promote employment opportunities through loans by the Industrial Development
Bank to small-scale and handicraft enterprises in the project areas will start
when sites are occupied.
35.      A decision to redesign the sites and services component to higher
design standards than appraised caused an implementation delay of over one
year, but project execution and disbursements are now proceeding efficiently.
The project is expected to achieve its main goals of upgrading low-income
settlements and providing affordable shelter to many lower income groups
without subsidy. The proposed project would build upon the experience gained



- 11 -
under the first project and the skills developed by the UDD in designing,
implementing and marketing a new type of shelter project. It would also
incorporate several modifications in design standards to reflect lessons
learned in the first project (para. 37(b)). Future operations might address
shelter problems outside the Amman region.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Historv
36.      The project was identified in March 1982, prepared in June 1984 and
appraised in December 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during
May 6 - 10, 1985. The Jordanian delegation was headed by Dr. Hisham Zagha of
the Urban Development Department of Amman Municipality. A Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 5569-JO), dated May 16, 1985, is being distributed separately.
The main features of the proposed loan and project are outlined in the Loan
and Project Summary and in Annex III. Maps of the project area are attached.
Project Objectives and Description
37.      The project aims at:  (i) providing shelter for low-income people in
the Anman region at affordable prices without subsidy to ensure the ptoject's
replicability; (ii) encouraging sound spatial development patterns in the
Am-an region through stimulating urban growth in appropriate locations at
lower infrastructure cost than under traditional practice; and (iii)
strengthening institutional capacities in Jordan to undertake low-income
shelter and urbanization projects. The project is part of the Government's
long-term program to provide shelter for poorer urban dwellers and would:
(a)      Upgrade conditions in two low-income squatter settlements on
government land at Emir Hassan and Jebel Emir Ali, covering about 21 hectares
with about 4,200 people. The areas selected suffer major deficiencies in
public services and require significant investments in the type of coordinated
and cost-effective solutions that the Urban Development Department (UDD) can
provide. Security of tenure would be provided, with transfer of freehold to
existing residents. Road access, internal roads and footpaths would be
improved; sewer systems installed; water supply distribution rationalized
including house connections, electricity distribution connections; and street
and footpath security lighting provided. Community and vocational training
centers would be built at each site, and a primary health clinic at Jebel Emir
Ali. About 141 infill plots would be developed at Jebel Emir Ali for
commercial use and sale for residential use to members of the target group
(10th to 40th income percentiles). Loans would be provided to existing
residents to expand housing and to purchasers of infill plots for new house
construction.
(b)      Service land in four sites (two at Ruseifa and one each at Naqab and
Um Nowarah) for about 3,420 plots covering 110 hectares with initial occupancy
by about 24,000 people, of which about three-quarters would be in the target
group. All plots would have individual water supply, sewerage and electricity
connections. The new sites would include plots for commercial development and
workshops for small enterprises and be furnished with a full complement of



- 12 -
social services, including:  ten new schools and, at Ruseifa, two extensions
to existing schools at the primary, preparatory and secondary levels; four
women's training centers; two primary health care clinics; four community
centers (to be used for day-care programs, literacy courses, etc.); and three
emergency service centers (for fire fighting and ambulances). Of the land
developed for private ownership, about 60 percent would be sold to persons in
the target group below cost and subsidized by sales at market prices of other
residential land (34 percent) and commercial property (6 percent). The sites
were selected following a major effort to identify areas that would be
suitably located with respect to present and future employment opportunities
and existing or planned trunk infrastructures. Based on lessons learned
during the First Urban Development Project (UDP1), major features of the
property sales would include: development of a wider range of plot sizes (113
m2 to 200 M2) versus UDPls standard 150 m2 and the 300 ml allowed
under existing regulations in other parts of the Amman region; sale of the
largest plots to two or more families; greater reliance on informal sector
construction (housing would be built on only 45 percent of the plots versus 77
percent in UDPI) with expected cost savings of about 30 percent compared to
construction by large contractors; inclusion of kitchens and bathrooms in all
units; and greater involvement of the private sector by providing areas to
developers for further subdivision, construction and sale and for residential
and comuercial use in Um Nowarah and Ruseifa.
(c)      Provide technical assistance to the UDD:  (i) 90 staffmonths for
advice on in-house design, project planning, management, economic and
financial issues; (ii) 60 staffmonths for design of community facilities;
(iii) 225 staffmonths for project supervision; and (iv) 135 staffmonths for
studies.  In addition to on-the-job training to be provided by the UDD's
advisors, the project would include training in Jordan and abroad in such
fields as financial and economic analysis, social surveys, project monitoring,
and the use of microcomputers. The studies included under the project are:
*i) feasibility studies and designs for a third urban development project to
be carried out by consultants with in-house support; (ii) surveys and
feasibility studies to be carried out by consultants for redevelopment of the
100-150 hectares of worked-out quarries which currently constitute a barrier
to development on the southern and eastern edges of Aaman Municipality; (iii)
a feasibility study for a program of regularizing land tenure and upgrading
the remaining squatter areas in Amman to be prepared by the UDD, with the
assistance of its in-house advisors; and (iv) a study to be carried out by the
UDD of means to increase employment opportunities for women living on project
sites. Terms of reference and the timetable for the studies have been agreed,
and the results would be discussed with the Bank before recommendations are
implemented (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(b)). Consultants would be recruited
with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
Consultants for design and supervision, who would be financed under the loan,
wouLd be recruited according to Bank guidelines (Project Agreement, Schedule
1(I1)).
Project Implementation
38.      The UDD would have responsibility for project execution, including
design and execution of all on-site project facilities and connections to
trunk infrastructure, marketing and beneficiary selection, and coordination of
the various agencies responsible for operating services on the sites when



- 13 -
investment is complete. The Water Authority of Jordan would be responsible
for operating water and sewerage services, and the Jordan Electric Power
Company for supplying electricity. The Municipality of Amman would provide
municipal services and maintenance to all project sites except Ruseifa, which
would be serviced by the Municipality of Ruseifa. The Housing Bank would
extend construction finance to the UDD and mortgage and building loans to the
beneficiaries. The Vocational Training Corporation would operate the training
centers; and the Ministries of Education, Health, Labor and Social Development
and Interior, the schools, health, community and emergency centers,
respectively.
39.      Feasibility studies and preliminary engineering designs for over
80 percent of infrastructure works for the sites and services and for the
upgrading schemes have been completed, and sketch designs have been done for
the remainder. Final designs and bidding documents for all contracts for the
first year are expected to be available for Bank review by mid-1985. Designs
for social facilities (schools, emergency, coamunity and training centers)
would be prepared by consultants, and all other designs would be carried out
in-house by UDD staff and the technical assistance advisors to be engaged
under the project. Land acquisition for all project sites has conmenced and
is not considered to be a problem; the UDD has developed considerable
experience in this area and the land on which initial construction would take
place is government-owned. Project execution is expected to take about five
years. The expected completion date would be December 31, 1990. Completion
of property sales would occur during 1990.
Implementing Agencies
40.      The Urban Development Department (UDD) was established in 1980 as a
quasi-autonomous department of Amnan Municipality. The UDD's staff of 109 is
expected to increase to 135 during the execution of the proposed project.  It
has been agreed that the UDD would continue to be satisfactorily staffed
(Project Agreement, Section 2.01(a)(i)(B)). With the exception of the
Director-General, the staff is on contract terms, which provides a useful
element of flexibility for an operation that is commercial in many important
respects. Nevertheless, although the staff is on a contract basis, the UDD is
a public sector organization with pay scales that are lower than the private
sector offers. This makes it difficult to attract and retain experienced
staff, especially capable financial and marketing staff. As under UDPI, the
UDD is expected to make effective use of the technical assistance included
*      under the proposed project, which would provide advice on design, project
planning and supervision, marketing, economic and financial issues and special
studies. Employment of the management advisors (para. 37(c)(i)) would be a
condition for loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(c)).  The UDD
has also shown considerable enterprise in taking advantage of training
opportunities for required skills, and a training program covering the period
of project execution has been agreed. To ensure continuity in its work, and
to support staff training, the UDD is preparing manuals covering all aspects
of its operations. The success of the UDD has been due to its financial
independence (its operational and administrative costs are recovered outside
regular municipal channels from sales receipts, the Government's development
budget, and Housing Bank loans), the competence of UDD staff and the support
by successive Lord Mayors of Amman. The UDD's status, however, may need to



- 14 -
change if it is to be given responsibility for carrying out urban development
projects outside the Amman region, as is now beginning to be discussed. This
will be reviewed in the context of the Rousing Strategy Study (para. 31), and
the Government will keep the Bank informed of proposed changes in the UDD's
status.
41.      The Housing Bank (HB) is a mixed public-private sector institution
that operates on a commercial basis. It was established in 1974 to help
mobilize private savings to finance housing construction, with an emphasis on
low-to-middle income groups. The EB, with a paid-in capital of $30 million,
has grown into the main savings institution in Jordan. The HB has been quite
adept at mobilizing resources and has quite an aggressive program, including
widespread branches, mobile units in remote rural areas, late opening hours
and active advertising. Between 1979 and 1983, its total assets grew at an
annual rate of 27 percent and deposits and loan commitments at 25 percent. In
1983, its return on total assets was 7.8 percent. Interest rates paid on
deposits range from 4.5 percent (to the Central Bank for special housing
loans) and 5 percent (individual saving deposits) to 8.75 percent (deposits
held by institutions), for an average of 5.3 percent in 1983. The HEB charges
an interest rate of 4.5 percent for loans to the Jordan Housing Corporation
(JHC), 8.5 percent for individual loans and 9-13 percent (including
commissions) to other borrowers, resulting in a weighted average of about 8.4
percent.  Presently, the HB provides loans for a maxinum of 18 years.  Default
on loan repayments is negligible and was less than 0.1 percent of loans
outstanding in 1983. In 1983, the HB had a net profit of 9 percent on net
worth and paid one half of this in dividends. The value of HB's portfolio of
equity investments increased 52 percent annually between 1979 and 1983 to 10
percent of its total assets, which were about $830 million in that year.
Earnings have not kept pace, not least because of poorly performing equity
investments and the need to lend to the JHC at low rates. The decline in
regional economic growth and the lower growth of Jordan's GNP can be expected
to moderate the increase in HB's earnings, deposits (especially from
expatriate Jordanians) and the demand for its loans. Nevertheless, the HB has
shown itself to be resourceful in meeting challenges in the past, and this is
expected to continue.
42.      The Vocational Training Corporation (VTC) provides short courses for
skill upgrading and initial training in semi-skilled occupations for new
employees, as well as longer term apprenticeship training, which combines
three days of on-the-job training per week with three days of instruction.
Apprenticeship training has been provided for more than six years, and the VTC
now has about 6,000 trainees, of which about 1,500 are enrolled in short
courses, and 4,500 are in apprenticeships. The design of training programs
for UDP1 has been flexible and responsive to the needs of industry and of UDD
beneficiaries, and successful performance is expected under the proposed
project.
Project Costs
43.      The total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
$88.5 million (in April 1985 prices) with a foreign exchange component of
$32.9 million (37 percent of the total). Cost estimates include import duties
and taxes (2.3 percent of total project costs).   Construction costs are based
on advanced preliminary engineering designs, checked against unit prices from
recent tenders of similar projects. Costs of technical assistance, training,



-15 -
.-advisory and consultant services for design and supervision to be provided
under the project are based on current staffmonth rates in Jordan.  Physical
jcontingencies average 7 percent of total baseline costs.  Price contingencies
-oqthe foreign component are estimated at 5 percent for 1985, 7.5 percent for
1386 and 8 percent for 1987-90; and on domestic costs at 5 percent in 1985,
6 percent in 1986, and 7 percent per annum in later years. Price
contingencies represent about 17 percent of baseline costs plus physical
contingencies, and total contingencies amount to about 20 percent of total
..project costs.
Proiect Financing
44.      Of the $88.5 million financing required, the Government would provide
$20.0 million to cover costs of social facilities, technical assistance to the
UDD (the items listed in para. 37(c), (i) and (iv)) and training for UDD
ataff. The Government would secure financing for some of the technical
assistance and training from bilateral sources. The HB would provide $22.3
million to finance those items whose costs would be recovered from property
sales (para. 48) and mortgage and construction loans to project
beneficiaries. Cash payments by beneficiaries would contribute $17.0 million,
and surpluses from UDP1 property sales would contribute an estimated $1.2
million. The proposed Bank loan of $28.0 million would finance 31.6 percent
of total project cost and 85 percent of the foreign exchange cost. It would
be provided to the Government at the standard variable interest rate for
15 years, including three years of grace. The Government would onlend
$12.5 million of the Bank loan proceeds to the EB for the project item whose
costs are recoverable from project beneficiaries in the sale price of property
developed under the project. The maturity and grace period for the onlent
funds would be the same as the Bank loan (15 and three years, respectively);
the interest rate for onlent funds would be fixed at the rate in effect at the
time of loan signing. The Government would bear the foreign exchange and
interest rate fluctuation risks. The remainder of the Bank loan, $15.5
million, would be made available to the UDD as a grant for financing social
facilities. The proposed onlending arrangements would be incorporated in a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government, the Municipality of Annan
and the EB, satisfactory to the Bank, the execution of which would be a
condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.02(a) and 5.01(a)).
45.      The UDD would be funded, for items whose costs are recovered from
property sales, by cash receipts and downpayments, loans from the HB at
8.5 percent on a line-of-credit basis, and transfers from the Low Inmme
Housing Revolving Fund (LIHRF) (see para. 47) of surpluses from UDP1 property
sales. The HB would sake use of its own resources, LIHRF deposits, and
refinancing from the Central Bank. For purposes of replicability, it is
important that HB should expect to make a positive return on its participation
in the project; and to this end, the Government would review annually with the
HB the appropriateness of project interest rates to enable the HB to earn a
reasonable spread, satisfactory to the Government, the Bank and the HB, on
funds employed in the project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)(vii)).
46.      The Central Bank refinancing is intended to avoid losses which the HB
would incur from borrowing Bank funds at a higher rate than the 8.5 percent



- 16 -
that the HB receives from its borrowers; the refinancing has been assumed at
25 percent of the funds the HB invests in the project, at an interest rate of
4.5 percent, or the same rate as the Central Bank advances funds to the HB for
JIC programs. These financial arrangements imply that the maximum amount of
its own funds that the HB would invest in the project would be $14.2 million
in 1986-87, or about 1.2 percent of its assets at that time. Based upon the
above arrangements, the HB would recover all costs of its participation in the
project, including the costs of administering mortgage and building loans, and
earn a small surplus.
47.      The LIHRF was developed under UDP1 to ensure surpluses generated from
land sales under UDPl would be reinvested in low-income shelter projects.
LIHRF's objectives and operational guidelines have been drafted, and a
committee has been established (comprising inter alia, the Director General of
the UDD and representatives of the HB, the Ministries of Planning and Finance)
to approve LIHPRF policies and budgets. Formal adoption of objectives and
operational guidelines for the LIERF, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.06
and 5.01(b)).
48.      Cost Recovery.  Costs recovered from beneficiaries through property
sales include the cost of land, site preparation, on-site infrastructure,
small roads and on-plot development. Land, site preparation and
infrastructure costs relating to schools, training facilities, community and
emergency centers, larger roads as well as the studies included in the project
would be charged to the government budget. Costs for design, supervision,
project management and interest during construction would be allocated in
proportion to costs of different investment items.  Costs of off-site
infrastructure (water supply, sewerage and electricity) would be recovered
through normal user fees. These cost-recovery arrangements have been agreed,
and the UDD and buyers of plots would not be subject to any fees or charges
intended to recover costs of items which have already been included in plot
prices (Loan Agreement. Section 3.08; Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b)(i),
and Schedule 2).
49.      Construction, mortgage and building loans to target group
beneficiaries and owners of plots in the upgrading areas would be made by the
HB pursuant to its regular terms (Project Agreement, Section 2.01 (b) (ii))
which are currently up to 18 years, at an interest rate of 8.5 percent. A
default premium of 5 percent of repayments would be charged to beneficiaries,
making the effective rate 9.24 percent. This is above the rates charged to
beneficiaries of the government housing programs (8 percent) and of Social
Security Corporation individual mortgage loans (6 percent). With Jordanian
inflation in 1984 at 4.5 percent and forecast at 5 percent per annum in 1985,
6 percent in 1986 and 7 percent in following years, this interest rate is
expected to remain positive in real terms.
50.      Project success hinges heavily upon realizing adequate surpluses from
sales of residential and commercial properties at market prices to
cross-subsidize shelter for the low-income target group. Hence, the state of
the Amman property market and the UDD's skill in marketing its property rill



- 17 -
strongly influence project success. While the Amman property market has been
dampened recently by stagnating workers' remittances, the project has been
designed to offer a unique product that is affordable to largt market segments
unserved by existing private or public programs. Furthermore, there has been
strong buyer interest in UDP1 sites (para. 34). UDD performance under UDP1
has focussed thus far on design and implementation activities, since the
marketing effort has only recently begun. This would be a major goal of the
technical assistance component of the project. Finally, it has been agreed
that the UDD would prepare, simultaneously with the preparation of detailed
engineering, analyses of the affordability of plots based on the latest
information on market demand and income and submit these to the Bank before
issuing tender documents. It would also sell the developed plots promptly,
using flexible marketing techniques (Project Agreement, Section 2.02).
51.      Affordability.  The target group for new sites comprises families of
Jordanian nationals in the 10th to 40th percentiles of the income
distribution. Based on experience under UDPl, beneficiaries would be willing
and able to pay up to a third of their monthly incomes on shelter costs
(including utilities and mortgage payments) plus a cash downpayment of 10
percent of the cost of their plots. The Government and the Bank have agreed
that these criteria would be observed when final plans and plot allocations
are made and that all plots, other than those sold at market prices, would be
affordable to the target group; however, if beneficiaries in the target group
request the UDD to build housing that would not meet the affordability
criteria, the UDD could fulfill such requests if the concerned beneficiaries
first advance cash payments equal to the regular downpayment plus the cost of
the additional provision (Project Agreement, Schedule 2). These criteria are
more demanding than those used under UDP1 (25 and 5 percent, respectively) and
nave been adopted in light of the fact that about half of applicants for UDP1
plots have monthly rental payments and utilities charges of over 30 percent of
their incomes, and many applicants have offered larger than minimum
downpayments. Plot sizes and houses on cross-subsidized plots have been
designed so as to ensure tLat plot supply ranked by cost is more or less
proportional to the numbers of families in each percentile of the target
group. Specifically, all plots would be affordable to families at the 40th
percentile, at least five-sixths of them would be affordable to families at
the 35th percentile, two-tbirds to families at the 30th, one-half to families
at the 25th, one-third to families at the 20th, one-sixth to families at the
15th and some plots would be affordable to families at the 10th percentile.
In the case of upgrading sites, the monthly mortgage payment to recover
average cost of land and services per plot would come to 15-20 percent of
median monthly family income, although multiple family occupancy in the
project area would make it less than this per family in most cases. Detailed
cost recovery arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, would be worked out on
the basis of final designs, taking account of the sizes of individual plots,
the numbers of families residing on them, and opportunities for cross-subsidy.



- 18 -
Procurement and Disbursements
52.      Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Number
Project Element         Contracts      ICB         LCB       Other       Total
US$ millions
Land                        NA         -          -           18.6       18.6
(-)        (})
Civil Works                  14        42.2         3.8        0.5       46.5
(21.1)      (1.9)      (0.2)      (23.2)
Building Loans              NA         -          -            9.8        9.8
(-)        (-)
Furniture and Equipment      21         4.1         0.5        0.5        5.1
(3.1)      (0.4)      (0.3)       (3.8)
UDD Operating Expense        NA                                3.5         3.5
(-)        (-)
Consultant Services          10         -          -           5.0        5.0
and Training               _-)                        (     (1)         (1.0)
TOTAL                        45        46.3        4.3        37.9       88.5
(24.2)      (2.3)      (1.5)      (28.0)
Notes:   Figures in parentheses are the respective figures financed by the
Bank. NA = Not applicable.
53.      Civil works packages of $2.5 million or more would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB), and those estimated to cost
$2.0 million or more would be subject to the Bank's prior review. The four
civil works contracts for the development of sites and services schemes (about
$28.7 million) and contracts for community buildings would be grouped into
contracts of at least $2.5 million whenever possible and procured under ICB.
The contract for extension of schools at Ruseifa ($0.5 million) would be
negotiated with the contractor who is executing the Ruseifa schools under
UDPl. Due to their size and nature, the upgrading schemes contracts are
unlikely to interest foreign bidders, and the four contracts for these
($3.2 million) would be procured by local competitive bidding procedures
(LCB), which the Bank has reviewed and are satisfactory. The above
arrangements would result in prior Bank review of about 10 contracts
accounting for about 90 percent of the total estimated value of civil work
contracts for the project.  Equipment, vehicles, tools, machinery, furniture
and fixtures for community buildings would be grouped into seven bidding
packages valued at $150,000 or more and would be procured through ICB and
subject to prior Bank review.  A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of
the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or actual custom duties and import
taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed for domestic manufacturers.
Contracts for miscellaneous items valued at less than $150,000 (and
aggregating to no more than $650,000) would be procured through LCB or, for
items costing less than $50,000, by obtaining price quotations from at least
three suppliers (Project Agreement, Schedule 1).



- 19 -
54.      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of approximately
six years as follows: for civil works, 50 percent; for furniture, tools and
equipment for municipal services and community facilities, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, 100 percent of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
goods, and 70 percent of locally purchased miscellaneous items; and for
consultant services, 100 percent of foreign expenditures. In order not to
delay urgently required ongoing work, retroactive financing of $100,000 was
agreed for expenditures related to the Ruseifa school extensions made between
April 30. 1985 and the date of loan signature.  The loan closing date would be
June 31, 1991. The estimated disbursement schedule in the Loan and Project
Sinmary is similar to the disbursement profile for a sample of social service
projects in Jordan. In order to expedite disbursements, a revolving fund of
$0.6 million (equivalent to an average of about three months disbursements in
the early project years) would be established by the Government and
replenished on the basis of standard documentation for eligible reimbursable
expenditures. Con:racts below $10,000 equivalent would be claimed under
statements of expenditures (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(b), Schedule 4;
Project Agreement, Section 3.01(d)).
Reports, Accounts, Audit and Monitoring and Evaluation
55.      The UDD maintains adequate project accounts of UDPl expenditures.
U-ider the proposed project, the UDD would prepare quarterly progress reports
and project accounts, including those for LIHRF, for submission to the Bank
not later than one month after the end of each quarter. The HB would prepare
quarterly reports showing the status of all its operations relating to UDP1
and the proposed project. Annual reports including financial statements for
the project, audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank, would be submitted by
UDD and the HB to the Bank not later than six months after the end of the
financial year (Project Agreement, Section 3.01). Besides the basic
monitoring and evaluation, which would be undertaken through the quarterly
reports, special surveys would be carried out following project completion of
numbers of families and businesses resident in each site in UDP1 and this
project to monitor the extent to which the development anticipated under these
projects has occurred.
Proiect Justification and Risks
56.      The project would assist the Government of Jordan in providing
affordable shelter, without subsidy, to low-income groups who have been
poorly, if at all, served by other programs. As such, the project would help
increase the welfare of a substantial proportion of the population, 26 percent
of whom fall below the poverty threshold. Over the 1985-1990 period, when all
ncw accommodation from UDPI and this project will come on stream, UDP new
sites are forecast to accommodate over one half of the increase in target
group families in the Amman region and about 17 percent of the total regional
population increase (i.e. 66,000 people). The project would also provide for
shelter at lower economic costs than existing alternatives and better access
to social services than is typically the case. The technical assistance
component would strengthen local, organizational, and institutional capability
in the sector.
57.      The base case economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is
14 percent, with ERRs for the upgrading and the sites and services components
estimated at 29 and 14 percent, respectively, based on increases in property



- 20 -
values and imputed rental values attributable to the project. A delay in
benefits by one year would reduce the ERR to 12 percent. A 10 percent
increase in benefits would increase the rate of return to 16 percent. A
10 percent increase in costs would reduce the rate of return to 13 percent.
Costs would need to rise by 29 percent to reduce the ERR to 10 percent.
58.      The principal risk facing this project concerns uncertain
maricetability of plots in a time of economic slowdown. Heavy emphasis has
been placed on ensuring affordable standards, on monitoring the performance of
the UDD in undertaking a major real estate sales effort, on technical
assistance in estate management and on establishing a financing scheme with
sufficient elasticity to accommodate possible delays in sales of commercial
properties.  In addition, construction prices in Jordan currently appear to be
stable, while prices continue to rise overall. Hence, the assumption that
construction prices rise with general inflation imparts a conservative element
to project marketability and cost recovery targets. There is also a risk
concerning the ability of the UDD, as a public sector organization, to
continue to manage mnulti-faceted UDP operations and innovate as the UDD's
rapid growth phase ends. The greater emphasis placed on training in the
proposed project than in UDPl, and continued substantial use of technical
assistance, are designed to reduce this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Municipality of
A-an and the Housing Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed separately.
60.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The conditions of effectiveness are: (i) the execution of the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government, the Municipality of Amman
and the Housing Bank; (ii) adoption of objectives and operational guidelines
for the Low Income Housing Revolving Fund (LIHRF); and (iii) employment of
consultants to provide management advisory services to the UDD (Loan
Agreement, Sections 5.01(a), (b) and (c)).
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.      1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 22, 1985



- 21 -
T A  L :  34                                    FA1!!
JORDAN                  SOCIAL IOUICAY     BTA SINK?
csetun puimas   ours (s                                    t ASuMI) I
MOS         T       (WT INSUlTISATC) ft
macaw         NIDDLX INC1S          miOLS XINCI
196iat    1970tk     SiiILkTELb   N. AIICA a HID ES       LAT. ANICA A cA
ARU Cm*DWUM SQ- i)
TOTAL                               97.7        97.7        97.7
ACRICULTURAL                        12.0        14.0        14.*
Qf PEI CArEA (U)                        .         390.0/c   1690.0 Ic          1149.0                2106.0
mRFY mmrnsIZI  a CITS
(KILOGRAMS 0F OIL EQUIVALENT)      127.0       211.0       706.0            622.1                  995.5
IOPULSYIIS - VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION.NID-YEAII (THOUSANDS)    1695.0    2299.0      3177.0
URBAN POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)      42.7         50.5       59.9               U.2                   66.5
POPUIATION PUJCTIONS
POPULATION IN YAR 2000 (KiLL)                              6.2
STATIONART POPULATION (HILL)                              16.2
POPULATION  NThNI                                          2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DI.                       17.3        23.5        30.9              36.3                  35.7
PER SQ. KM. ACRI. tAND           101.4       164.2       203.9            461.7                   92.4
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (S)
0-14 URS                         L4.4        45.6        46.1             43.6                   39.9
15-64 Rs                          51.5        51.0       51.5              53.1                   56.0
65 AND ABOVE                       4.1         3.1         2.6               3.3                   4.1
POPUILATION CRUFIN RATE (2)
TOTAL                              3.1         3.0         2.1               2.5                   2.4
URBAN                              5.2         4.7        4.0               4.5                    3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER IHOUS)        47.4        47.6       44.6              40.4                   31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TIROS)        19.9        15.5        R.1               11.5                   6.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RAE              3.5          3.5        3.2               2.8                    2.0
FAMILY PLAtNNIG
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TNOUS)           -.          ..
USERS (t OF KARIED     )            ..        22.0 Id    25.0 I-           22.2               _   40.3
FoOD - UnUIION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PMILCAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      220.0        79.0       70.0              97.3                  114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIRESMES)       93.0        93.0       102.0             110.8                  110.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          61.0        55.0       64.0              70.1                   67.3
OF WHlCH ANIAL AND PULSE        15.0        15.0        16.0 If           17.8                   34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATE RATE         Z6.3        1Z.5        6.0              14.6                    5.7
E8ALTJ
LIFE EXPECT. AT uRTm (TERAS)        46.9        50.1        64.0             57.5                   64.7
INFNT ST. RATE (PER TNOUS)         135.5        97.5       64.6             101.5                   60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                             21.3          ..        80.0 IC           59.7                   65.4
URBAN                             48.6          ..         ..              84.5                   78.1
RURAL                              2.1          ..          .              38.4                   40.2
ACCESS TO ENCREZA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPUIATIONT)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        78.0 /c            ..                   52.9
URBAN                              .. ..                   ..               0..                   6.0
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..               ..                   z4.5
POPULATION PR PHYSICIa           5800.0       3780.0     1700.0            4345.1                 1917.7
POP. PU NUSNG PERSON              1930.0 I    1480.0     1180.0            1831.1                  615.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            560.0      1350.0      sOB.O /b           632.9                 367_.t
URBAN                               _       1120.0      680.0 7           545.5                  411.5
RURAL                                       5440.0         ..             2513.5                2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED           ..        36.5       45.7 If           26.2                   27.3
HSIC
AVERACE SIZE OF HDUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.3         6.1         6.7 le.1
URBAN                              5.5
RURAL                              5.1          ..
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONSIROOH
TOTAL                               ..          ..         6.3 IL.
URBAN                                                       - -
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. tZ OF DWELLIICS)
TOTAL                             17.0          ..        66.0 IC          46.2
URBAN                             39.2          ..       90.0 7            77.7
RURAL                              1.4          ..       30.0              16.1



- 22 -
. A I L  *                                         16A   2
JOISAN                 - NfCZAL ZIICATOU DATA I
N"DS                CmITI 3c31  UTATZ) /
rzc           KMXDO  xINCON          KSOu LNCM
m         19?l        iT. AfR7A A                  ABs    LaH. WcA & cuA
AuJUSD tIOLLU M  XATIO
ltIDMRTS  TOTAL                    71.0        72.0       103.0                8 6.3                105.4
ai                      9.           79.0       105.0 7           102.5                   106.3
t3LWX                   5.0          63.0       100. :o            73.6                   104.3
SCM1AAYs TOTAL                     25.0        33.0        77.0L.             43.0                   43.2
IMUL                    36.0         41.0        79.:70            52.3                    42.3
PALX                    13.0         24.0        76.o 7            33.0                    44.5
VOCATIONAL (Z or stcomu)             2.7          3.0         6.1 /c            10.3                   33.6
ruIrZL-SZACZ  RATIO
PRDmRT                             34.0        39.0        31.0 /c            30.3                   30.1
SECO aU                            20.0        23.0        21.0 7-            23.1                   16.8
ADULT LITtRAC  RAT2 CZ)              32.4          ..        70.0               43.5                   79.5
AIU      ( CABS/TOUSAND POP          3.7          6.7        30.7               17.8                   46.0
Mazo azCVu/TrOUSMI PoP               37.8       160.9       L83.4              138.8                  2U2.6
TV UIGRVEUI/TROU3SAD POP               ..        20.0        58.5               46.1                  107.2
NUISPAPM C-DAILT UURAL
INTKREST) CXRCi1ATION
PER  IODSUAD POPULATION            18.3        24.4        31.3 ff            3L.2                   63.5
CDM    ANUAL ATTEUDANIECAPT          3.2          0.9         5.3 T7             1.7                    2.8
TOTAL LANK Po=E (mus)         4- 2.0            569.0       756.0
FMUA  (PACBUQY)                     5.0         5.6         6.6               10.8                   23.2
dLSIIUI (1E1P )             4.0          34.0        20.0              42.4                    31.5
3DIIS? (PERCENT)                   26.0         9.0        20.0               27.9                   23.9
PA.TIClPATIOH RATE  PCFEN)
TOTAL                              15.5        24.7        24.1               26.2                   32.2
RAZZ                               46.7        45.5        43.5               46.4                   49.3
re3ALr                              2.7         2.8         3.3                5.8                   15.2
zcouzc DEMENECT RATO                  1.9         2.0         2.0                1.8                    1.4
P-Et  Or PRVATE: rlCU
uzczrvu sr
ITOREST 20S or NuIISEUOLDS           ..
LOVES 201 or  OsEOW 
LOVES? os Or BOUSENOS
ABSOLUT  roZrr DCM
EL (US3 PER CAPITA)
URBIN                                ..          ..       230.0 If           27L.8                  2B8.2
RURAL                               ..           ..       100.0 7            177.2                  1I4.0
ES            m  OVERI
LEVEL CUS5 PER CAPIrA)
URAN                                                      206.0 If           402.6                  522.8
RUL                                                       1350_              ZB4.9                  372.4
ESTD(ATED POP. BRUM ASOLUT
POVMRTr rKCM  LEE  (C)
UERBA N                                                    14.0 1I
RURAL                                            1. 17.07?
NOTr AVAUILAE.E                                           ~        ~
or APM ICABI
NO TE S
A   The grooyp avra    for each lnd2cator are popala-valghted arlti  neaum. Covera  of countcrii amog the
Indieators de_pnd on availability of data ad Is nc munfor.
th  Uenles otherulm r oted. o1tc for 1960- refr co any yar betv_em 1959 and 1961; Vata for 1970- betc_n 1969 &ad
1971; and oat& for Mec Rectc ZstI.tee beteen 1980 and 1982.
Ie  Eaat Dank. /d 197i2; Ie 1976; If 2977; .L 1962; /h 1978; /I 1979.
JUNE. 1984



- 23 -
flast  tlmhmst mhm dal  . R      nt  IC.. uammrm u.sm-siie jdgudml am; I=         =uiaue  aS est"let. It b..td m..- b.  eSlotfAI it., ~  -p ,oge b. lmumm             mt_kV
ehath bsamR .1 to. l.   64 tl mamtiuW daflSiam-  use mnap. esd  he dlrvstsu  s"temS ..m _diemis ml. dua.. lb  An. UP Ste.4m.sShLRem    mmmml ku
dasite  rdu I.em umstm. II Slam           V mv.ssm .    attsuai- a.-9  -utae  1ju   dmtnsm   hut,sm     mui-d%   Aa. 111f     nPt            M    g.OPOTom.
:.101", Xsame lmmupt 1mm'mob mines., Ditmper gaSp am. addmu I-mum  t t Ulic. -1d MuSt. ussr mm mbNmOP bces  .1 .9mim egut msmirlelmm
Sol=  Rem . I  m. eusema  aeon dais ml. stungs. anPO1R`lIms-" nsh .d aeeuss  am  lam a.st media.. ae  ua PPIV samR .m,memm  uc a.~ mea                                 . i.
mmep ha Wi. Cm. S    IS.11ied Rse.   5am  Eta msesveu mlm         Ieml ames thu 9medl1M.it depuSm  -  ml. -ni.1,mltat .  dam dad Em1.  nilan,d"    nIle mt ha
etmln   Am wisle   -"eea. 51 me  SPIamse Cs me-ter.  thus messgu  m. Me-IV seusIi is nemmisim. m Rh  "             1   -n  dis  t. AtI amis  Samet tl. -seey aSo
- teatsatIn  areammqtiimm                                                                               a          51551a amRmestitmmml
emehat, e'-k   md ktiluh   daldme  mm mm II. laliste  mis.                     an..m ".1 ittelem.
till me dmios..                                                                             "umat.55uil~-ms.sle  e   em                                uaant-ee (maui
maeelam .md-sadinalm INs hmLi=shiiilmmsu.  buplisim  l  emAtolubmut  pumueslI, ululld
tie0. 1910. ad list dm1..                                                                       byatmSSm   pbytmss.  gsalmem    pe Amide  petmepuly  sPLdiat
mS.e at  m   i-Jlad.  teal mimplsl., h--.am  ime              "hasta
-         *        ammp oamswyen ma teem - ~A_Isa  epasesM  -aem,Petmm  mm                relml                       -Adi-s assues mum aem.uy Calmed hp 5 utemlise (hi1 be 5  da
-0  A. WTA                                                                           ea.~~~~~~ThEililfli~Ml.ml.m 
OP                                         Am P  "I isle C,ram. 19mm, a   140 '.d                           1t1AA.       d-
ila,.                                                                                        ArrOlfAtWtAAton Ladatid      iis. m..adme
mueemu   55,155,mm festdas                                                        she  uszml   s nmaluemmeini tauru-as..VM
~~jgjinjtsjmjrn                                                                     Smumasamad1etr d.  .1   mel -I..  ma   vs- - met.ymesa myi-i saum I-"      m 
e   Pem 'eCluasta  use-u.   Cat emmusli,m tam  contu  sm  Wtmt                         aeMsptd "sram
ime1. PsaniLm  Ltr. suIMmamme as t1int Immuusmu  miii steeRs' pWeSca   u                                mem   (use-Rm  ml dalitme)- mat   ehm.a    ms -
.mpi.  R=s   I.t.. a   muSs lors aameum  sm   lsq,1 am .1.1                                 _umum    alimsut   tmsliem flmium   maru.-p.n
PARuIeS deamlu  is I-e11imme astdIes im Smem  tat ad pRPm  Cattp
.saa  he   mamlsisdant  les emim.9  aimRt-                                          P"-" ifelumltyaOI  ag.u   l  rme            mmiA -  "90 pmsu mm  a  tepels
maind hamalaust  meulue  a   mplmu-   lent lmm                                                rim .   mRulse   muaISCsml suWmai  =mam   sttdm    use  u-S
.srdumut- e C.  rth.    isb ..sIm s eeslslm    . u hiA-.em  ii. emete                        -yeses has    f -`ij   -Isud -me  dsm -s tamt. e P   ..1m paiue  u emss1t
adIawl  e L.  hat vts.m.  meI S   emmmut lual    mas,a mPtt             I.t                           -aums simh. adeeus  udnes  meuisu  m   uemd  13pa
gmmtRasi   ss,-     eaiemypplai   imanmin    -  ml.                                      u-Ime enpuil sns 1.e     -   tAl.m    iulteisi. usu-itiegs.
..ftuluismmem                    R te ml  msmdmsme   t papu 'a . Ptuuul   is mumlue            plss    e-~main.   ua=    stl  em semi         immuiS   lammimt. si
h=sdmI.Ctshm-            tsme-eetlrSlmih   hmSemauashmuelea-fl   .I m   ?Ime   Is  mespaum   asesa
md,left  dam.                                                                       NusmmeseumlROSSut    d  amum     ma  smdss  asildI
P-nI.I   f7  R-7-,a  pmtatiu  put4 .ma  4hllmu -1115 hastes) ImIemsemia u
S"l-)i.u -10   is   dls  dm                                                                 dl -lesrC.,- -mstmam)- Lmse_e  .tm  (att  us ma-mdummm 
Suy  mc. iit adlitEae
Fmnla - mueMuUestRu usm-ll   Oidme(i-i  sst).mumOe-senn-ett
t  msa.am   estd-     t fS.*rat  ad.e)aemmua-udes                                        teeeau  ttel. . *mu           iusseu  -Pmesu   aeanisnm
peust-ulm-; -mm.. m                     W, ad miss deem,                              m n -s (W,   in- m ijMiipea  uTVmu     bimuus  hemms 
tensele Cmsmt Lmam   =nasm --  inea     amalgemm  etme  eii-,- tmum                                   Tteli
era. pepuimesa. le  "5-50. sasa-Ps. ad  clu-am,.mRi  musmsm   a -1                                 sadeulamut          Wl tyu   Itmm iRut  at.
mumamuC1     i mnsImem    -etus   me,-       m  a5m' tee I   .e Roe.m h-m1ms   eP-,a",tl   e msmsd  lmmmam     seuu
pumiila  in  :ns-e.is-i,  dsU-a..-temm d mnemsm   animmd  Im-l ,R                                                                        Rum   hersamea R          lvu.
FiteeustSas(r            ism)-ams   lam tint met) esamdt S-.-                                    ma  an. mu .mtmes de    atun   wee--a   hmsgmtsues 
ysme mueeisui.m; SimS. midi. ad imma das.                              semmetias aheiumhed ml-mueummg.0.                                  O
(meAls muas. mama Ems.chummed) -   et tmamh p.  thesusad m Cd-n.m     eIRA---us See  shadmemamee   11.  mutaes lee hesmdl-e.  us
p~ias5sits, 15Mmadls  dams                                                              asne  Z.,tpteeau   umaesemtdumtene   mmam
-  eva;shmm  dstue    eeuaimta  i                                               mmnee    dmeS---,epmems.a  t  m.a   i  lem
ham   eensummtdueeee mrsudem m. su.vleea   mma..me-emmmme         esa.s (meelu I-   use  iemu  umeiuml) -                  he sset
tui Jlame  E.    t         bsmut .1                                                                    P_eesed mu-s  -        1-tf-maee ma ateltate Is alms
estt.imme Ce -1         msemsssme   l  murledens    ha                 R.                ja      .        m-mmcm_                           . -      t1    _;Io.
ease...teaumemml. msa.5.    nts  eat1 P ia  -   st-mm   -                                W.  m ROMes ad  ...uusgd hm-I-    %.ldeulsmms-a  evudus`.    m5t., ssut
.-%.   ~~ _pptI.  -1-1 f-d'  -e .                   seslast.m amspm Rmuimuuu LeAtlu. enmes mat em .
vies me  _emetI,%tem                  t        .  1     -         e  -gb.                        .emamj;f(5.ii   dls-  Vdata.               ,S
Cuda  . - emeuu "T.ns, hu ts.  (smden'se   mu    semEm tea.                           mi        IRAes - peuie M 1ma   ak    ae;              P ll mlt  dataO`O 
ueaes   ame  m    estIt  ltmmmmli a    sa-          eemteeP-...A                             JatJ  -tl.   su   e  ils.ammmtim  anmuele   e
OfIdeem.1-1                                  24           O  1     .1                       esesmnl  hem- leuresa  -Isu.  al.w  mm   an.- slmpm                    ua
mite -i.setm  mwl aslmeeumeess  am'  melm4W    s  -U..sdCt                               tamemu  eas.se   u        d-umu.u.,a              amalb mn-
muss. ~sm5sm   ad-  md seman eumR.      i  5.musypmcptaermeeeaee  meal ale a Ounl  uspummhms.1 ai  metu easen
am.,  Aulibl  mam-S)iu fmeieeari..m-sm  lu                                                     mi V-A~   t  T.. mee ad sim faa   ihM     ae ~ m    tms pmt.pte   teas
mWuem  ad6 mlsmge mu nant,  mum anim    susia  em  lea,  ed.                                I   ttulelms0-m  utautem   l  puies.   dluses ued
isunmmemned  m ma  pumsusss.  aissee I dm     ROaeSS    hss                      R--Iemmue. am R.ys usmst  tel-s. 1t  f.
muss a   asmuumd  y Cs uad  s ememleaealmmm. mm emau          f~1&h~if               5s- taints ml peuas SW        e W i Amdt   m       ri
aememp  ed  esuteseidais umemmamtmussmma.  ud  muats,iiVnImjsCppseum  (hu    Rud   ibSI
isit-mem ya  als    -hat. ummeet           e   f  et-- ela.la  wlees   -1                        muaIsI
siuse   .m -Zasaa  mea  mu-e.-  -- dm   s em ta   ad- asmm
psis. p.sem  em asse  med f mes  absid he  mml  peem.  it. Pe  mam   13
dasm.                                                                                 seORC.md ublOrm.=
OmtsCse  -S -em   se(u.m-b d-       -Csedet  ieeha   I                                mlaedtsse   tny.imet  ut  msPa oi.)-atsuSves 



- 24 -
_                                                                                                               *A= I
Pqp 4 of 6
JOM- SM4IC  DICAZB
qoualtiow. 2.b uillino (1983) If
CM per ci=   US$ 1,710 (19ig    li,2/
ANOL30t                                             Anmel G1 Csh Rtes
TInicator                (uifligs US at               Aci (at 196D wi-s)                               PoiecOd (at 1L3  pricn)
cutwt prime)
1983               1978   1979   1960   1981   1902   IW  3/   1964   1985   1986   1987   1988
NA!DIAL Aca1S
Gros daintic prod&ct         4,096               2L5    9.1   10.8    7.4    7.1    5.5            5.0    5.5    5.0    5.0    5.0
Aalcultuze                273               25.0  -29.0   39.0   11.6    9.7   12.6           5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
i;iscry                 1,13.               27.C   19.2   1L5    13.2    0.3    3.8          10.8   10.7    8o       7.0    7.5
xer2es                  2,223               189    10.2    7.9    4.3    8.9    4.8           2.4    3.0    3.5    3.7    3.2
Loowmt,w.                   4,hC                 18.9    ; .73   -7.D    6.4    3.8    4.9        -4.3    4.9    5.6    5.4    4.3
GCes Investmerc              1.621                5.6   10.5   17.2   24.2    2.4   -5.7           0.0   -5.6   -7.0   -1.3       2.6
EwOrts ONFS                  _.760               10.4   2U...  24.1   2%..    1.5   -9.1          10.2   10.      9.8    7.0    7.0
Z:DOt s of tIJiF             .&.03                9.7   26.1.  -L7    _7.-   -..8    6.2          -5.8    3.0    3.1    4.4    4.5
r      tt cnal Praouct      -4.09:               i1.   *.7    6.8    d.:          ..    2.2        4.0    5.0    4.2    4.3    4.2
;GF Drf amor                                ;2b   8.5   1C0.C  1b.5  IB.7  12.F
beiuse pAre                                  3.2a    3.33   3.35   3.07    .8'.  2.7e
S&m   of Za  at HuSre  r--=es :.:A:  hF=V Amual Increase
.sC curvenC pruice.                           (at CeuAMat price)
974    1.980    1985                       197843    198f.-8      1986-0
, ms    q .  s     - :.,,                                           X,t - ..   sy,8                    10.3        5.1         5.0
M.e     c.:                        10.2         5.0        5.0
str.- .:.                                                          3f..'                       14.1       L8           7.5
qr 5               : -8.9                                3.2         3.2
*afluwrlor.                                              :2-5.t   i09.e   :1&-                           7.4        3.3         4.3
..rms ,     cEe                                            2b.5   .iO.o    3S.o                          L8        -2.3         2.6
a3orcs of OFQ                                              35._    -.9      20                          13.6        a7          7.0
inpams of X2*9-.                                                   97..   IOZ.-                         9.7         1.9        4.5
.dss Nua;l Pn,aduct                                      i.,   IDO.t,  1O0.Z                            8.0        L.3         4.2
bet Factor 1a                                              -.1    -0.8       2.Z                         -           -           -
Grcss NinAEOal svlxu                                       2-    -9Ji -'.'    _               - _
As  of GX
tat current prxces,
1975        198         196
DCsruic Rem.-us                       24.8         22.D       23.-
CrrAeit BPaiuiuMeS                    37.b         33.9       23.-
Bulgerr Savp                         -12.B        -10.0        0.0
4>V=l Expeuszr.es                     23.o         22.9       12.7
Foreign Fi-ig                         ''.8         27.7       11.8
ot whbxc fareiga  ats               30.t         20.5        7.0
1978-B3     1984-68
OD3   nDIAD6
I=Da                                 6.3          6.3
G ci Nf
Svim   Rate                        0.1         -0.2
IMpor Eleririty (goods)              0.9          0.4
11 E_c Bank oaLy.
2/ Prelinunsry escLie ebsedi an de rv2sed seri  of nstional accois to be dimmused with the G_cero       , biwi c  lhes  ittmoces
fr  la%1   tem resides abrmI dot awe coaderd capital trsa.
3Preliinay esti,we.
Mgy 1985
ol05



- 25-
Pqe 5 ot 6
Nm  - EL ME
_MK,                       1MM  Gm    Rat
Indiczator             Cillim us$ at                   ACb:l (Ui 1980 Wieu)                         Peoimted (i 1980 pnie)
1983              1978   1979   1990   1981   1982   1983   1984 2/   1985   1986   1987   L988
mE ~
He ise  oWnts 1/          441               6.7   22.5   22.9   31.1    2.1   -0    9.5          10.1    9.1    8.5    8.5
ki_r9                  255               5.5   16.1   26.2   18.5   -3.2  -60    1L0           9.7    9.2    8.7    8.7
MWAAc                  155               9.1   35.6   17.0   59.0    8.5   -1        4.0      11.7   9.0    8.3    8.3
hrdim1e im qacts        3,044              -1.3   10.5    7.8   27.4   -1.0   -6.2   -.1          1.5    4.4    4.7    4.5
Food                   497               25.8    8.9    7.1   31.6    6.4  -6.0   -2.0         2.0    3.2    4.8    4.5
PeNo1smu               585             -13.2   30.3   42.3   19.3   22.0    1I    4.0          2.0    3.2    4.3    4.0
HuVhnery md eipt  723                    -3.5  -11.7   13.6   56.6  -13.0  -1LO   -65          0.5    0.8    1.1    L0
Ods                   1.239             -9.8   27.5   -3.4   19.3    0.5    9.1  -61           L5    2.8    4.7    4.5
PRIM                                                    (1975 - 100)                               (90 - MD0)
lpt pnce izi d             -               85.8   90.2  106.9  107.5  113.2   90.3   97.5       106.1  112.4  124.3  128.5
bmat pnce id               -              114.8  133.5  150.4  L13.6  119.4   94.2   9L6         96.9  105.3  10.9  U7.0
Teuu of Cae iidc           -               74.7   67.6   711   94,.6   94.8   95.9  106.4       107.3  106.7  112.1  109.8
q~o.ii.i  of Hrdu       Trade (Z)                    A=W Annal4    % GcA  Rate
(at umut prices)                                (at comt Prices)
1975     1982      1987                            1979-3       19W817
EZort. /                                            .      100.0    100.0                             11.9           9.1
primay                                         79.8      46.8     57.8                              8.2           9.5
::uf6tuvas                                     20.2      53.2     42.2                              19.2          8.1
IMP-to                                           100.0     100.0    1O.O                               6.6           1.8
Food                                           22.2      16.7     18.3                              9.7           2.5
Pecolu                                         10.6      21.0     24.3                              16.8          3.8
MHchzry mxA eq.ait                             316       28.0     23.7                              3.9          -L0
Odher                                          35.5      34.3     33.8                              9.0           1.1
sic of Totl hports CO)                       Shar of Total Ipoct (Z)
DMERJ30 E DPIE                                           1975       1983                             1975         L963
Deveimpa _sbnt    _ ecomid                               17.6        4.9                             6L6          46.3
Deq    unri economies                                    70.2       82.0                             29.2         46.5
of Eih Arab caxtries                                   42.4       63.3                              19.8        48.6
Cencaly plimd ec_aie                                     12.2       13.1                              8.2          7.3
EMin ci'-c
1J  u1dix  -Cs                                                                                                Ky 1985
2/elimnary e'tmte                                                                                             01856



- 26 -
AMU I
%*soof 6
N  -  W   F PASO. EC1NL CNhr=L ASD r
biam IIS at ctzmnt wie.)
Indicator                                                         1                                                            P-oia:ted
1977     1978     1979     1980      1981     1962      1983     19  3/      19B5      1966     1987     1990
MVAICE (F PAYIOS
Eqcu  of goods & services             1203      1437     1819     2491      32l5     3174     3G47      3A5         3685     409g      4537     6179
Of which: Mecdiadise f.o.b.           249       297      402      574       742      749      581       756         906      1047     1256     1760
Wacer. xmittcu:e            470      5        600       79      102       106      1112     1235         1367     1455      157.  19WC
Tlapom& of g6ad & aerices             1714     265       2872     3452     4550      456 4 4251        4186         45BB     5102      552'     750,
Of which: Mewhidim f.o.b.            1376      1497     1957     2393      3237     3229     3011    2779          3057      333      36       4923
worer remittanes               46       65       80       154      159       175      201      228          216      2-        195  18 .
Net trgfers 2/                         504       317     1046     1335      1321     1055      814       712         600       60D      60D      5LY:
Orent  tac    t bsle                    -7    -280         -       374      -2t    -335       -39t    -22m          -3D3    -40,       -_I;?
Privae dixect inveamm                   11        56       zc       31        67       91       2        S,         1a -        o
z loans (net)                          190       189      193      232       274'     NZ       30b       we          :7.   39o  _ .:      -
Official                               86       :_       143      24.       28'      D 27        .       e          :        ^.        27      56:
Private                               10'        77       50       -6       -'       -29      bii.      x            ye      1-.       19;      i9-
Ocher capital                          -21       278       2C    -2bo      -39e    -29t.       -7c
Quges in  esmerws                     -173     -24       -232     -37T        63      2    1    36 _-
Interrial re                           74C      983      1215    .5ke       :5.3     ;li    1075        6,:.         -: :              ::7: 
Of uhich   Gold                         6!       S1       82      3)!       i9E      i        M9L- 3L   .21.        1a L. 2 
Pesertve  as 5.iz   of  po               5.        5o        .                  .:       .:      3.        .                                        .
EL CAPL AND DM
Gros diabra nsi                                 -                           -.~       .,.
Catsaoe  9nn                 ~        .       i-'      ..         :        v    _   -       22.   _   -
IDA                                9                 i.        G                 ,            _
Other                             85     1U3        J6       :2-      1..                ZZ.      'i-2
NbwccxEeasiona lns                 iZ&       10'.     'A       173      28        19l       9;      109
Offirial aot        cricts         _        6                 9       :5Y        9'.      10       12
M                                  -        -                  - 22    19        Ui       33       39
Odwr ilti]atezul                   -        1    - ,                    C a      30       Li       io
Privae                           117       9o       A6        40       98        56       49       42
F-ecol debt
Debt o.rcandi   ad
disb.rd                             623      8i       10.b    1200      148'      1685     196      252
Official                         469      60"       765      993     1226      1WA      1305     1429
Primme                           15'      232       283      273      254       221      661
lkIabaid debt                       559      825      863      IZ21      99g       831      932      57-.
Debt service
Total service pay- s                 38       x         96      133      182       193      278      319
isest                             15       24       40        58       82.       61      106      14
P    sInt as qX eocs 1/               3.2      4.0       5.3      5.'      5.7       6.i      9.1      9.8
A-E    ineVest r
ac neiw lom (1 )                      6.0      6.3       5.3      6.8      5.3      o3u       7.0      7.0
h r
of vo  loan  (years)                 14.4      18.1     21.4     14.8      17.7     20.1     17.0     12.6
of  er ioa   (yeavs)                 3.5      5.6      4.7       3.8      4.3       5.0      4.1      2.7
As X of Debt Ojcstariig
at end of Most Recant Yar (1983)
Maturity atnrture of debt a*tcaxIizg
Nat1witias due within 5 years                                      39.0
Nat itiea due within ID yea68a9
Itaxest stretu  of debt a           _
Iltcet due witlnn first yer                                         6.0
-    mst  rt    kilAble.                                                                                                               -      IIC
if  Sqorts of goods ad aeLvices   e2li            tte s                                                                             May 1985
2 En:dl;g uneqzied tomfer  by log t    vsedee atars abroud.                                                                          0185M
Prliinryscuse



- 27 -
ANNX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN a/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1985)
US$ Million      -
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year      Borrower        Purpose            Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
Fifteen credits     Jordan
fully disbursed                                               86.1         -
Two loans fully
disbursed            "                               50.0
1781     1979         "      Education III            19.0                5.8
1826     1980         "      CVDB                     10.0                3.3
1893     1980         "      Urban Development        21.0                13.5
1986     1981                * Power IV               25.0                6.2
2068     1982         "      Education IV             25.0                19.5
2162     1982         "      Power V                  35.0                21.7
2213     1983         "      Water Supply and
Sewerage              17.0                16.9
2246     1983         "      Education V              18.8               18.6
2334     1983         "      Urban Transport          30.0                28.9
2371     1984         "      Energy Devt. I           30.0                28.9
2378     1984         "      Education VI             40.0               40.0
2425     1984         "      Eight Cities
Water Supply
and Sewerage           30.0                30.0
2463     1985         "      Multi-Mode
Transport              30.0                30.0
2483     1985                Greater Ammann
Water Supply
and Sewerage c/        30.0                30.0
2531 d/  1985                Primary Health Care c/  13.5                 13.5
TOTAL                                                424.3     86.1      276.8
of which has been repaid        5.8       3.2
Total now held by Bank/IDA b/ 405.0      82.9
a/ The status of the above projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/  Includes exchange rate adjustments.
c/ Not yet effective.
dJ Approved by the Board on May 7, 1985.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENITS
(As of March 31, 1985)
-US$ Million
Year          Obligor           Type of Business      Loan      EquitY    Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.            Ceramic Tiles            1.6       0.2      1.8
1975/    Jordan Fertilizer
78/81/82   Ind. Co.           Phosphatic Fertilizer  79.5 -'   8.7       88.2
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate             Building Materials       2.5       0.7      3.2
1979     Jordan Securities    Money & Capital
Corp.                 Market                            0.7      0.7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.            Leasing                            0.3      0.3
Total Commitments                            83.6 -    10.6     94.2 2
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                    60.6 _     0.7     61.3 -'
Total Commitments now held by IFC                 23.0       9.9     32.9
Total Undisbursed                              -          -        -
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



- 29 -
ANEX III
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by agency to prepare the project: 11 months (January to
December 1984)
(b) Agency which prepared the project:             Urban Development Department
(UDD)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank:        January 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:        December 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:            May 10, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                 October 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Special Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) Execution of subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 44).
(b) Formal adoption of objectives and operational guidelines for the Low
Income Housing Revolving Fund satisfactory to the Bank (para. 47).
(c) Appointment of consultants to provide management advisory services to
UDD (para. 40).
2. Other Conditions:
(a) The UDD would continue to be adequately staffed (para. 40).
(b) Arrangements for recovering costs through the sale of property under
the project have been agreed, and the UDD and buyers of plots would
not be subject to any fees or charges intended to recover costs of
items already included in plot prices (para. 48).
(c) The UDD to use agreed criteria for plot allocation and definition of
affo.dability for new sites (para. 51).



w\'~~~~~~~~~'.
,,,< Dn ~-                                               I,
I             . S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I       
*                                                      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  
bb
0        3               ~~~~UD  =
U.-                                                                               / -J -. --  P A            ./5
Is-I                                         j_/                                                                 t ______          __ __         r
5  *  :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CMNN  ONG  \SON  Dr _  j :  o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  b\7^..  OF..  



Iz 
JORDAN
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                          \4L&
LOCATION  OF  PROJECT  SITES
_  Ruile aB d       )
4,,,.-,,,,,, ~ ~ ~    ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ -. a.-M
Ruseofa 2A ~ ~      ~        a 
n.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.
<.;(G y~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ :l"/  d  Emir AiU
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E R,
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     r
jv.- - ;   X - _)snm M SidWf Bound rim
H. POCA.:       -      ' 
,;  m)                  
2  iMQ.:            E 
i       <              !      \    , - .  5/ . ! 






