Docuent of
The World Bank
FOR OFCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13288
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2587-JO)
JUNE 29, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Eguivalents
Currency Unit: Jordan Dinar (JD) = 100 Piasters = 1,000 Fils
Exchange Rates'
(Jordan Dinar per 1 US Dollar)
Market
Period                        Period Average
1985                              0.394
1986                              0.350
1987                              0.339
1988                              0.372
1989                              0.570
1990                              0.664
1991                              0.681
1992                              0.680
Jan. 1993                           0.689
Government's Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Measures and Eguivalents
I hectare (ha)       = 10,000 m2 or 2.471 acres
I donum              = 1,000 m2
List of Abbreviations
ECA/MENA -  Europe & Central Asia/Middle East and North Africa Regions
ERR         -  Economic Rate of Return
GDP         -  Gross Domestic Product
GOJ         -  Government of Jordan
HB          -  Housing Bank
HC          -  former Jordan Housing Corporation
HUDC        -  Housing and Urban Development Corporation (formerly UDD and HC)
IBRD        -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (The World Bank)
LIHRF       -  Low Income Housing Revolving Fund
MMRAE    -  Ministry of Municipalities and Rural Affairs and Environment
MPWH        -  Ministry of Public Works and Housing
NGO         -  Non-Governmental Organization
PA          -  Project Agreement
PCR         -  Project Completion Report
SAR         -  Staff Appraisal Report
UDD         -  former Urban Development Department (within Municipality of Greater
Amman and subsequently within MMRAE)
UDPI        -  First Urban Development Project (Loan no. 1893-JO)
UNDP        -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID       -  United States' Agency for International Development
WB          -  The World Bank, referred to as the Bank
Source: International Financial Statistics, International Monetary Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washingtn, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
operations Evaluation                                                       June 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Jordan
Second Urban Development Loan (Loan 2587-JO)
Attached is the report "Project Completion Report on the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: Second
Urban Development Project' (Loan 2587-JO) prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the
Middle East and North Africa Country Department II, and with Part II submitted by the Housing and
Urban Development Corporation, the implementing agency.
The objectives of the project were to improve conditions of low-income people in the Amman
region by providing shelter at affordable prices; to encourage sound growth patterns by stimulating urban
development in appropriate locations; and to strengthen institutional capabilities in the country to
undertake low-income shelter and urbanization projects. The project achieved most of its objectives. Of
special interest as a project achievement was that targeting of the very poor population in the shelter
component was successful. The operation had positive impacts on (i) project areas in the Amman region,
particularly through the addition of residential, commercial and social facilities, (ii) the quality of housing
construction, (iii) the consolidation of a new approach to urban development, (iv) the development of
income generating schemes for women, and (v) the promotion of community development programs and
community participation. The project's experience with the provision of housing under the project
indicates that changes may be required in the future role of the implementing agency, the Housing and
Urban Development Corporation (HUDC), and that it would be desirable to promote an increased private
sector participation in the provision of housing in Jordan.
Not all project components were completed; one upgrading site and four sites and services
locations were not implemented under the project.  The loan was extended for two years due to
administrative, technical, financial and external factors. Implementation delays point to shortcomings in
project design, particularly objectives that were too ambitious in relation to the time for project
preparation and prior sector experience, and lack of consideration in the project to the possibility of
bringing in the private sector to work on housing construction. Loan extensions were necessary because
of flawed contract evaluation processes (tender and contract award), weak pre-qualification criteria, as
well as exogenous factors (the Gulf War).
On balance, the project is rated as satisfactory, its institutional development impact is negligible,
and its sustainability likely.
No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This doc uent has a restricted distribution nd my be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents my not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROlECT
(LOAN 2587-JO)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ..........................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....................................
PART I (Project Review from Bank's Perspective) ...........             .............
1.  Project Identity ..................................1......
2. Background ........................................1
3.  Project Objectives and Description  .     ..............................  3
4.  Project Design and Organization  .       ..............................    4
5.  Project Implementation  .....................................    5
6. Project Results ........................................ 9
7.  Economic Re-Evaluation and Rates of Return ........................ 10
8.  Impact of the Project ....................................... 11
9.  Project Sustainability ....................................... 11
10. Bank Performance .......................................   12
11. Borrower Performance  ......................................  12
12. Bank - Borrower Relationship . .................................. 12
13. Consulting Services .......................................  12
14. Project Documentation and Data .      ................................ 12
15. Status of Covenants ........................................  13
16. Lessons Learned .......................................                               13
PART U (Project Review from Borrower's Perspective) ..................... 14
(By Housing and Urban Development Corporation)
PART m  (Statistical Information) .............................. 24
1.  Related IBRD Loans/IDA Credits  ..............................  24
2.  Project Timetable  .............................. 25
3.  Loan Disbursements .............................. 26
4.  Status of Covenants .......................................  28
5.  Project Components and Implementation  ........             ................... 30
6. Appraisal and Actual Cost ..................................... 34
7.  Appraisal and Actual Project Financing   ........           ................... 36
8.  Rate of Return .......................................                                 39
9. MEssion Data ........................................ 40
10. Financing of Plots .......................................  42
Map: IBRD (18802R)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
IUSIWEMDT,EKINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2587-JO)
PREFA-CE
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Urban Development
Project in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, for which Loan 2587-JO in the amount of US$
28.0 million, was signed on July 8, 1985 and became effective on June 13, 1986. US$ 1.44
million was cancelled in August 1987 and US$ 5.0 million was cancelled in October 1989. The
loan was closed on June 30, 1993, two years behind original schedule, and the remaining
undisbursed balance of US$ 4.84 million will be cancelled.
2.       The PCR was jointly prepared: the Infrastructure Operations Division, Country
Department II of MENA Regional Office prepared the Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts
I and III; the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, and the implementing agency:
the Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDC), formerly the Urban Development
Department (UDD), prepared Part II in consultation with the Housing Bank (HB).
3.       Preparation of the PCR started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in June/July 1993. The report is based, in=  alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and the Bank's internal memoranda and
reports.






ii
HASHEMITE, KINGDOM OF JORDA
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJlECT
(LOAN 2587-JO)
EVALUATION StUMARY
Objectives
1.       The primary objectives of the project were to improve conditions of low-income
people in the Amman region by providing shelter at affordable prices; to encourage sound
growth patterns by stimulating urban development in appropriate locations and at lower
infrastructure cost than under traditional practice; and to strengthen institutional capacities in
Jordan to undertake low-income shelter and urbanization projects. The project primarily focused
on bringing together all the elements for the development of sites (infrastructure, on-plot and
social service costs) in a planned manner consistent with sound urban development patterns,
affordable to lower-income groups, and providing for full cost recovery.
Implementation Experience
2.       The closing of the loan was extended by two years as a result of various
administrative, technical, financial and external factors (para. 5.6). At closing, however, the
project's components were satisfactorily completed with the exceptions of: (i) one upgrading site,
which was previously cancelled; and (ii) four sites and services locations where construction was
still ongoing (para. 5.2). Likewise, studies and technical assistance contemplated by the project
were also completed with minor exceptions. Recommendations thereof were either implemented
or are under implementation (para. 5.4).
3.       Procurement problems encountered by the project primarily centered on inefficiencies
in tendering and bid evaluation procedures made worse by a decline in the construction industry
(para. 5.6). Splitting the physical components into smaller contract packages in order to obtain
more competition and involvement of local contractors was less successful than originally
anticipated (para. 5.8). Several contractors experienced financial problems and had to be bailed
out by the Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDC), straining its ability to
perform the complex task of effectively managing and coordinating a large number of contracts.
4.       The overall project cost, in nominal terms, without taking into consideration the
changes that occurred in the scope of the project, decreased from the appraisal estimate in JD
by 9 percent and in US$ by 31 percent (para. 5.9). If, however, the changes in the scope and
the current status of ongoing contracts are taken into consideration, the adjusted cost decreased,
in nominal terms, by 10 percent in JD, mainly due to overestimates during appraisal and lower
bids. It also decreased by 34 percent in US$, due to the change in the average exchange rate
of the JD over the duration of the project (para. 5.1).



iii
5.       The remaining undisbursed balance of US$ 4.84 million will be cancelled in addition
to the US$ 1.44 million and US$5.0 million, which were cancelled in August 1987, and October
1989, respectively (para. 5.12).
6.       The audit reports on project accounts were adequate but frequently late despite
persistent reminders from the Bank (para. 5.13).
7.       Notwithstanding its slow implementation, the project will eventually, after completion
of all components, have added about 4,264 residential, 190 commercial/light industrial and 31
social plots with a total of about 153 ha. The project also achieved a good degree of success
in targeting the desired beneficiary group, 72 percent of which had incomes between the 10-40th
percentile (ID 80-220 per household per month, at current prices) (paras. 6.1 and 6.2). The re-
estimated overall economic rate of return for all sites was 14 percent (paras. 7.1 and 7.2). The
impact of the project on the developed areas is positive, evidenced by a high degree of
proliferation of good quality new housing construction and extension. The same can also be
observed over wider spill-over areas (para. 8.1).
Sustainablit
8.       The project was successful in consolidating the new approach to urban development
introduced earlier in the First Urban Development Project and which has now spread to other
urban areas nationwide. Extensive community participation and the inclusion of skills training
programs to strengthen the earning capacity of households have and should continue to reinforce
the positive achievements attained in this project. Recent organizational changes at HUDC
(para. 9.1) and the Government's major policy decision to discontinue public sector provision
of housing (para 8.1), have brought about deliberations over the extent of HUDC's future
involvement in the sector. In view of these changes, it is desirable that future HUDC
involvement should actively emphasize the promotion of private sector participation, and the
provision of good policy advice to the Government to improve housing conditions in Jordan.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.       The following major lessons, which emerged from the experience of this project,
mainly concentrate on procedural issues to reduce implementation delays and improve
compliance:
- agree with the Government, through broader policy dialogue, on a comprehensive
framework that ensures consistent and streamlined contract evaluation processes
are in place for Bank financed projects. Such processes can take the form of
tender evaluation and award by the implementing agency instead of national
bodies to avoid lengthy and cumbersome procedures;



iv
-  insist on more stringent application of pre-qualification criteria to discourage
financially weak contractors from being awarded contracts which they are unlikely
to finish on time;
-  encourage the implementing agency to use more stringent means to deal with
laggard performance by contractors;
-  conduct Bank procurement and disbursement workshops for counterpart staff
dealing with procurement; and
- encourage more private sector participation especially in commercially sensitive
aspects such as sales and marketing of plots where they have a comparative
advantage.






HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2587-JO)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.       Project Identity
Project Name                      Second Urban Development Project
Loan Number                       2587-JO
Loan Amount                       US$ 28.0 million
Loan Cancellations                US$ 11.28 million
Regional Vice Presidential Unit   MENA
Country                           Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Sector                            Urban/Housing
2.       Background
Introduction
2.1      The population of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan grew from 0.9 million in 1961
to an estimated 4.0 million in 1992 through high natural growth rates and successive waves of
immigration. About 70 percent of the population is urbanized (living in localities of 5,000 or
more persons) and 50 percent live within 30 kilometers of the capital, Amman, which accounts
for most of the country's output of services and manufacturing industries.
2.2      This rapid increase in the Amman region's population, coupled with infrastructure
and zoning polices, resulted in an urban sprawl manifesting itself in inefficiently scattered urban
development on large plots. This brought with it excessive infrastructure costs and shortages
of housing affordable to low-income groups.  The poor had little choice but to live in
overcrowded conditions or in informal housing areas.
2.3      Recognizing the importance of developing the Amman region, the Government of
Jordan (GOJ) was involved over the past several decades, with Bank support, in several urban-
related development projects. The first Bank-financed integrated urban development project,
First Urban Development Project, (UDPl, Loan no. 1893-JO, US$ 21 million, 1980) was a
demonstration project that signaled a significant departure from past policy of encouraging the
construction and sale of subsidized housing; it developed about 2,800 small residential plots and
upgraded four slum areas accommodating about 1,400 families, in a cost-effective manner with
minimum Government subsidies. The perceived success of UDP1 encouraged the processing
of this Second Urban Development Project (UDP2) which would essentially replicate and build
upon the experience and skills developed under its predecessor, and would also ensure the
continuity in the supply of primarily new sites following the completion of UDP1.



-2-
Sector Development Objectives
2.4      As the cost of both land and building rose faster than income in the 1970s, minimum-
sized detached-single-family housing allowed under prevailing planning and building regulations
became unaffordable to the lower two-thirds of the households in terms of income. Small
apartments (50 M2) were also unaffordable to the lower forty percent. Previous Government
response to the escalating costs was to encourage construction and sale of subsidized housing
through various governmental entities such as the Jordan Housing Corporation (HC). This
strategy, apart from being unsustainable in terms of the subsidies extended, was neither able to
satisfy the growing demand of low-income groups nor was it always affordable to them.
2.5      The GOJ, through UDP1 and 2, initiated an alternative approach to the provision of
adequate and affordable shelter to the lowest income groups within greater Amman.
Subsequently, in 1987, this approach was further consolidated and extended to other urban areas
nationwide through the National Urban Development Project (Ln 2841-JO). The broad objective
of these projects was to create conditions whereby low-income groups could help themselves at
the pace and cost that they could afford without subsidy. More realistic planning and building
regulations, especially regarding plot size and tenure regulation, were emphasized. Institutional
capacity and organizational frameworks were also targeted for strengthening to enhance
Government efforts in developing housing policies to meet current and long-term needs.
Policy Context
2.6      At the time of project preparation, the GOJ under its last two development plans was
aiming at restructuring the economy to achieve a wider manufacturing base, reducing dependence
on external grants and spreading the benefits of development among regions. The Bank's
strategy was tailored to support these objectives. In particular, with relation to the urban sector,
the Bank encouraged, among other things, measures to alleviate constraints (manpower and
infrastructure) facing the productive sector as well as a more balanced growth and distribution
of social services among regions and income groups, with particular emphasis on operations
targeted to low-income groups. The focus was to bring together all the elements for the
development of sites (infrastructure, on-plot and social service costs) in a planned manner
consistent with sound urban development patterns yet affordable to lower-income groups while
also providing for full cost recovery.
2.7      As a next step towards the development of sound national housing policy, the project
called for the completion of a national housing policy study2. This study was intended to
identify constraints which prevented low income families from obtaining a suitable and
affordable residential plot of land on which to build, as well as housing finance constraints.
2/       Financed by grant funds from United States Agency for International Development (USAID).



-3-
Linkages Between the Project and Macro Policy Objectives
2.8      Jordan enjoyed a buoyant economy during the late 1970s with real GDP growth
averaging 10 percent a year. Worker remittances, foreign grants and industry, particularly
manufacturing, were the engines of growth.
2.9      In the early 1980s, however, conditions became less favorable; worker remittances
declined sharply, foreign grants declined in absolute terms.  Future growth was heavily
dependent upon the development of exports of light manufacturing products and services which
were primarily located in and around major urban areas. Such activities rely, among other
things, upon well developed and managed urban services. Reduced growth prospects also
implied a need for greater budgetary stringency and more attention to cost effectiveness of
government programs including the provision of suitable shelter for low-income groups.
Moreover, reducing constraints to low-cost housing production will invariably stimulate
construction activity and employment, with strong linkages to other productive sectors within
the Jordanian economy.
3.       Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.1      For a relatively small operation, the objectives of this project, the second direct Bank
involvement in the urban shelter sector, were very ambitious, especially considering that at the
time of project preparation, little experience was available within the sector from the earlier
project, UDP1. Project objectives were: (i) to provide shelter to low-income people in the
Amman region at affordable prices, and with full cost recovery to ensure the project's
replicability; (ii) to encourage sound spatial development patterns in the Amman region through
urban growth stimulation in appropriate locations at lower infrastructure costs than under
traditional practices; and (iii) to strengthen institutional capacity in Jordan to undertake low-
income shelter and urbanization projects.
Project Components
3.2      The project, as appraised, pursued the above objectives through the following
components:
Upgrading Schemes: (US$ 7.05 million or 8.0 percent of total estimated project cost)
consisting of upgrading conditions in two existing informal settlements at Amir
Hassan and Jabal Amir Ali areas (with populations of 1,700 and 2,500 on areas of
3.0 and 18.5 ha, respectively) through regularization of land tenure and provision of
a full complement of physical and social infrastructure services and of community
facilities.



-4-
Sites and Services: (US$ 75.80 million or 85.6 percent of the total estimated project
cost) involving the development of four new sites (two at Ruseifa and one at each
Marka and Manara) with about 3,240 plots for 3,570 families (estimated at 24,000
people) of which about 2,755 families (77 percent) would be in the 10-40th income
percentiles. These sites would also include a full complement of social, community
and commercial facilities.
Training and Advisory Services : (US$ 5.66 million or 6.4 percent of the total
estimated project cost) comprising: (i) technical assistance to HUDC for project
implementation; (ii) local and overseas training for HUDC staff; and (iii) studies
covering the feasibility and design work for a third urban development project;
surveys and feasibility studies for redevelopment of the 100-150 ha area of used up
stone quarries; a feasibility study for a program of land tenure regularization and
upgrading of the remaining informal settlement areas in Amman; and finally a study
of means to increase employment opportunities for women living on urban
development project sites.
3.3       The upgrading of Jabal Amir Ali site was finally cancelled in November 1989,
because of resistance by area residents3. At the request of GOJ, a new site, (Mustanda), was
added in November 1988, to the list of sites and services components to replace the cancelled
Jabal Amir Ali site. Meanwhile, the Manara and Ruseifa sites were expanded beyond the
appraisal estimates (Tables 5(a) and (b), Part III).
4.        Project Design and Organization
4.1       The project was explicitly designed to bolster and broaden the new  concept,
introduced earlier through UDP1, of providing target groups not served by other programs with
affordable shelter complete with adequate complementary urban services. Although there were
no new policy issues introduced during the project design, national housing policy was to be
addressed through the study financed by USAID (para. 2.7).
4.2       The preparation of UDP2 was undertaken as a follow-on operation to the earlier
UDP1 which was still under implementation at the time. Several of the early lessons learned4
from UDP1 were incorporated in the design of this project. However, because of the overlap
of the two project cycles, not all UDP1 lessons could be incorporated in the new project,
particularly the impact of issues like scheduling, timely provision of social and community
services and prospective beneficiary preferences on the marketability of plots. Subsequent plot
marketing operations indicated strong beneficiary preferences for serviced plots on which they
could build their houses at their own pace and at less cost than for houses provided by HUDC.
3/        The residents objected to some of the cost recovery elements which were previously discussed during early stages of project
design.
4/        These lessons included: several modifications in design standards and greater mix in plot size.



-5-
Project preparation required a total of 44 staff-weeks followed by another 37 staff weeks for
appraisal.
4.3        As in UDP1, HUDC was responsible for designing and executing all the project
facilities, marketing plots, beneficiary selection and coordinating with other public agencies.
Likewise, differential plot pricing techniques where utilized which took full advantage of location
and access to services and street frontage thus widening the affordability spectrum. Moreover,
in an effort to engage private sector participation in this sector the project called for
blocks/large plots to be sold to private developers.  The project, however, fell short of
specifying detailed mechanisms for doing so. It was felt that such mechanisms would be
articulated at a later stage as warranted by market conditions. Implementation of this innovation
was therefore limited to a rather small pilot case of twelve plots.
4.4        The project successfully capitalized on the clear advantages of using the Housing
Bank (HB) as an intermediary to extend mortgage and building loans, since it was well
established and had sufficient branch network, staff, procedures and funds necessary to provide
housing loans to the project beneficiaries. Unlike the UDP1, where the HB sustained losses on
its project related loans to beneficiaries, data reported by HB indicated that they achieved an
average net profit for this project5'6.
5.         Project Implementation
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up
5.1        The loan was approved on June 18, 1985, and signed on July 8, 1985.  It was
declared effective eleven months later on June 13, 1986, after a series of extensions due to
delays in ratifying the loan agreement and in the appointment of consultants to assist HUDC.
Consultant appointment delays were a consequence of non-agreement with United States' Agency
for International Development (USAID) which was originally requested to finance this
component. Subsequently, the consultants were financed under this loan.
Construction
5.2        At the closing of the loan, June 30, 1993, all of the project components were
completed, although with substantial delays (Table 5(c), Part III), with the exception of the
following components: (i) the upgrading at Jabal Amir Ali which was cancelled (para. 3.3); and
(ii) the sites and services at Ruseifa 3, Ruseifa 4, Ruseifa Extension and Mustanda where
construction was still ongoing.
5/         The HB analysis was based on average balances of project related loans over the period 1986 to 06/30/1993. An average
net profit of ID 48,731 on annual revenues of JD 579,344 was reported.
6/         The spread (over its average cost of funds) eamed by HB was guaranteed by the Government through the refinancing, at an
interest rate of 4.5 %, of portions of HB's own resources reinvested in the project.



-6-
5.3       The performance of several civil works contractors was less than satisfactory. On
several occasions during construction as it became apparent that a contractor was experiencing
cash flow problems, HUDC had to intervene in order to prevent further delays. This lack of
performance by some contractors was attributed to a general decline in economic conditions in
Jordan during the latter part of the 1980's associated with a tightening of credit extension
especially to the construction sector. Shortages of building materials as a result of disrupted
shipping traffic through the Port of Aqaba during the Gulf War made matters worse. In
retrospect, pre-qualification procedures should have been more rigorous, given the fact that a
relatively high ceiling limit of US$ 2.0 million was set for individual contracts to be let under
local competitive bidding procedures.
Studies and Technical Assistance
5.4       The studies originally contemplated by the project (para 3.2) were completed and their
recommendations were either implemented or under implementation with the exception of the
following: (i) the feasibility study of redevelopment of used up stone quarries in southern
Amman was put on hold by request from GOJ, although the first phase was completed, pending
the recommendations of a comprehensive development plan for Greater Amman (under a
separate project); and (ii) the feasibility study for a program of land tenure regularization and
upgrading of the remaining informal settlement areas in Amman. Although HUDC presently
has an ongoing program for assessing feasibility of site upgrading, the land tenure component
has yet to be undertaken.
5.5       Technical assistance on an array of issues covering supervision of implementation,
economic and financial issues and management information systems was provided by consultants.
HUDC staff also participated in a variety of local and oversees training programs.
Implementation Delays
5.6       The project experienced delays from the start (para 5. 1). Virtually all contracts
incurred delays of some sort as outlined in Table 5(c), Part III. The implementation schedule
in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) proved optimistic, given that the historical implementation
profile of projects in Jordan spans about eight years. The project incurred serious delays for a
variety of reasons prominent among which were:
(i) cumbersome and centralized procurement procedures for awarding contracts,
and lack of clear understanding of procurement procedures consistent with those
set forth in the loan agreement;
(ii) delay in the decision to cancel the upgrading component at Jabal Amir Ali and
subsequently to select and add a new sites and services component at Mustanda;
(iii) numerous design changes emanating from unforeseen site conditions and
shifting market demand for plots;



-7-
(iv) successive organizational and administrative changes at HUDC (former UDD):
UDD was transferred from the Amman Municipality (AM) to the Ministry of
Municipal and Rural Affairs and the Environment (MMRAE) in June 1986. In
January 1989, UDD was transferred to the Ministry of Public Works and
Housing (MPWH). Four years later HUDC was created as a quasi-independent
entity under the jurisdiction of MPWH by merging the former UDD and the
HC, two entities with dissimilar, and often conflicting, charters;
(v)  financial problems experienced by some civil works contractors who declared
bankruptcy or needed financial support to ride out their cash flow problems; and
(vi) other extraneous factors which included the precipitous decline of the local
economy during the Gulf War and the subsequent shortages of building
materials as a result of disrupted shipping traffic through the port of Aqaba.
Moreover, construction was held up during the unusually severe 1991/92
winter. The speculative boom in the construction industry after the Gulf War
caused by Gulf returnees exacerbated an already precarious situation by
diverting resources into that more lucrative area.
Closing Date Extensions and Completion
5.7       The closing date of the loan was extended twice7, to permit the completion of ongoing
contracts. At the time the loan was closed, June 30, 1993, four sites and services sites were still
under construction with an expected projected completion extending to the end of December
1993. Much of the delay might have been avoided withl more rigorous pre-qualification
procedures and flexible designs which could accommodate changing market conditions.
Procurement
5.8       During the preparation of the bidding documents, HUDC split up the civil works and
goods procurement into several smaller packages to attract wider local contractor participation,
thus ensuring tighter and more competitive bidding. In addition, it was thought that this would
provide more flexibility to modify the design of some packages without disrupting the progress
of others. This approach neglected the consequence of increased complexity and risk involved
in the supervision, coordination and management of all these contracts. Furthermore, as the
small size of individual contracts precluded the participation of larger and financially stronger
international contractors, some contracts were won by contractors with weak financial positions
(paras. 5.3 and 5.4).
7/        The first extension was granted on May 22, 1991 for a period of one year with the proviso that a second one-year extension
would be granted provided HUDC adhered to the provisions of corrective measures agreed to with the Bank in order to
speed up implementation.



-8-
Project Cost and Disbursement
5.9       Without taking into consideration the impact of changes to some of the components
of the project, the total cost estimated at JD 33.4 million during appraisal decreased to JD 32.2
million, or an underrun of about 9 percent. The total expenditure in US dollars decreased from
the appraisal estimate of US$ 88.5 million to US$ 61.0 million, or an underrun of about 31
percent, mainly due to the devaluation of the Jordanian Dinar.
5.10      In order to provide a meaningful comparison of costs, readjustments to the appraisal
estimates were introduced to reflect the impact of changes that took place in the scope of work
during the peiiod of project implementation, i.e. cancellation of the upgrading component of
Jabal Amir Ali; and increases in the scope of work in the sites and services components. The
adjusted costs in Table 1, indicate a decrease of JD 3.90 million or about 10 percent, mainly
attributed to overestimates during appraisal and to bids that were lower than anticipated. The
adjusted cost in terms of US Dollars, however, decreased by US$ 31.88 million, or about 34
percent.  The discrepancy between the two can be attributed to the change in the average
exchange rate of the Jordanian Dinar, which was devalued over the duration of the project.
Table 1: Cost Adjustments due to change in scope of works
(in nominal million currency units)
Appraisal         Actual
Estimate
JD      US$      JD      US$
Appraisal and actual costs         33.39    88.53    32.18   61.02
Net adjustments to:
Upgrading Components:
Jabal Amir Ali                     -2.27    -5.68
Sites & Services Components:
Ruseifa 4                          + 1.17   +2.22
Ruseifa Extension                  +0.27   +0.51
Mustanda                           +4.96   +9.41
Complete ongoing contracts:                         + 1.44   +2.09
Adjusted Costs                     37.52    94.99    33.62   63.11
5.11      The disbursement of the loan took 60 percent longer time than anticipated at appraisal
(Table 3, Part III). Exogenous factors contributed to delays; such as the Gulf War and the
severe 1991/92 winter. By the original closing date of June 30, 1991, only about 85 percent of
the loan proceeds had been drawn down. Although the SAR's disbursement profile of six years



-9-
was based on previous Bank loans experience in Jordan at the time, recent Bank standard
disbursement profiles (also, Table 3, Part III) indicate that urban projects in Jordan and world-
wide take about eight years to disburse fully. Moreover, the contractual arrangements in this
project favored local contractors over international ones by virtue of limiting the size of
contracts. This might explain the lag between the actual profile of this project and all other
projects in Jordan, since the bias in favour of numerous smaller sized contracts increases the risk
of delays (Table 3, Part III).
5.12     At the request of GOJ, there were two cancellations of funds from the loan; an
amount of US$ 1.44 million was cancelled on August 26, 1987 to reflect the cancellation of
upgrading the Jabal Amir Ali area; and an amount of US$ 5.0 million was also cancelled on
October 2, 1989 to reflect the combination of cost overestimates, efficient cost controls by
HUDC and devaluation of the JD in relation to the US$. At the end of the four-month grace
period beyond the closing date an amount of US$ 4.84 million remained undisbursed and will
subsequently be cancelled. Only US$ 16.7 million of the original loan amount of US$ 28.0
million, or about 60 percent, was disbursed.
Audits and Reporting
5.13     The loan and project agreements, as amended, required HUDC and HB to provide
the Bank with annual audits of their accounts as well as quarterly implementation reports. The
annual audits were conducted by independent auditors but were frequently received late despite
persistent reminders from the Bank.
5.14     The progress reports received were detailed and comprehensive, disclosing relevant
information on implementation. Additional and more timely detailed reporting on plot marketing
would have helped the Bank and HUDC appreciate more the changing market demands.
6 .      Project Results
6.1      Notwithstanding its slow implementation, the project largely achieved most of its main
objectives with regard to area upgrading and sites and services (para. 3.2). The project will
eventually (after completion of ongoing components) provide a total of about 4,264 residential,
190 commercial/light industrial, and 31 social plots with a total area of about 153 ha, see Table
2 below (for more breakdown under various sites see Table 5(a) and (b), Part III). The
upgrading component represented about 3 percent of the residential plots and about 2 percent
of the total area developed under the project with about 3 percent of the total cost. Some sites
at Ruseifa, although connected to the utility network, remain without water because of limited
water supply, a problem endured nationwide.



-10-
Table 2: Project output in terms of number of plots
Planned      Completed"'   Ongoing
Residential                4,264         2,945        1,319
Commercial/Industrial        190          188             2
Social                        31           29             2
TOTAL                      4,485         3,162        1,2
(*)  Reflects data received from HUDC on 03/22/94
6.2       A series of recent field surveys and studies conducted by HUDC of various UDP2
sites, to assess the degree of success in targeting the desired beneficiary group, concluded that
about 72 percent of the beneficiaries had incomes within 10-40th percentile; JD 80-220 per
month (at current prices), while 77 percent had monthly incomes below JD 220. Furthermore,
about 82 percent of these households have either built housing or added to their core units, with
an average cost of JD 7,886 (current prices); equivalent to about JD 55 per month, representing
about 36 percent of their average household income.
6.3       The HB reported that the total number of loans extended to purchase land plots and
building materials were 1,953 and 392 respectively, totalling about JD 10 million, with about
86 percent of these loans used to acquire plots. The HB also reported that the proportion of
payment arrears of three payments or more on these loans has been holding steady at less than
one half of a percent.
6.4       As far as the training and advisory services components, the studies were conducted
and implemented (paras. 5.5 and 5.6).  It is worth noting that as a direct result of the
recommendations of the study of means to increase employment opportunities for women living
in urban development project sites, there are currently a prolific number of training courses
operated by well managed NGOs ranging from adult literacy to computer training as well as
other women's productivity activities. Such activities as embroidery and restaurant catering earn
participants reasonable supplemental income (between JD 10-30 per month).
7.        Economic Re-Evaluation and Rates of Return
7.1       At appraisal, quantitative economic benefits were measured in terms of imputed rental
values for the dwelling units to be constructed or improved under the project and the sales
receipts for residential and commercial plots sold at market prices.  For the purposes of
economic analysis, costs (excluding taxes) included site development, on-site and off-site



-11-
infrastructure, on-plot housing construction, maintenance costs and project unit operating costs.
For the ex-post economic rate of return reevaluation, HUDC used similar assumptions to the
SAR for the costs while the benefits were estimated using total imputed rental values of: (i) new
dwellings; (ii) extensions to new dwellings; (iii) the increase in rental value of existing
dwellings; and (iv) commercial plots. Imputed rental values used were based on field surveys
by HUDC.
7.2      At appraisal, the various sites showed a rate of return varying from 12 percent to 30
percent with an overall average of 14 percent. The re-estimate of the sites at completion was,
on average, 14 percent (Table 8, Part III). The negative effects attributed to the delay in the
benefits caused by time overruns were offset by the surge in rental values as a result of the
unexpected rise in demand accompanied by the large number of people returning from the Gulf,
in 1990/91.
7.3       Rates of return were not calculated for spill-over areas but are expected to be robust
since these areas developed quickly. In most of the sites and services areas, development is still
in progress and it is likely that the ultimate rate of return will be higher than now estimated.
8.       Impact of the Project
8.1      The positive impact of the project on the developed areas is evidenced by the
proliferation of good quality new housing construction and extension. The same can be observed
over wider spill over areas. It is thought that the sudden surge in housing demand after the Gulf
War might have possibly crowded out some low-income families from the project areas. The
extent of this, however, is thought to be minimal. Another positive impact has been the success
of various income generating schemes for women in those areas, which are run and managed
by well established NGOs. The community development programs associated with this project
are also showing encouraging signs of increased resident awareness and participation. Another
important impact with far reaching implications was the Government's major policy decision to
consolidate UDD and HC into HUDC (para. 5.6(iv)) and to phase out public sector provision
of housing, leaving housing construction to the private sector, following the recommendations
of the Housing Strategy Study (par 2.7), which was covenanted under this project.
9.       Proiect Sustainability
9.1      The project was successful in consolidating the new approach to urban development
introduced earlier in UDP1 and now spread to other urban areas nationwide. The extensive
community participation in the project sites in the form of voluntary associations and
cooperatives along with measures to improve household income have reinforced the positive
achievements attained in this project. However, the issue of replicability of the project concept
into other sites will depend on the future role played by HUDC within urban development.
Although, over the past decade, HUDC acquired a reasonable amount of first hand experience
in urban development and the provision of shelter to low-income households, recent
organizational and fundamental policy changes (para. 8.1) have prompted discussions over the



-12-
extent of HUDC's future involvement in the sector. In view of these changes, it is desirable that
future HUDC involvement ought to emphasize promoting private sector participation in the
provision of housing, and providing good policy advice to the Government to improve housing
conditions in Jordan.
10.      Bank Performance
10.1     The Bank made a major contribution in its technical advice to HUDC throughout the
project cycle. The Bank's major shortcoming concerns the lack of continuity in supervision,
particularly in the early stages of project implementation. More careful attention to cost and
work progress by supervision missions early on in the project might have led to an early project
restructuring in order to avoid the cumulative cancellation of about US$ 11 million.
11.      Borrower Performance
11.1     Whilst the project was effective in attaining most of its objectives, a few observations
could be made regarding the Borrower's performance. The Borrower's bureaucratic routines and
internal regulations delayed effectiveness and procurement. Successive changes in the
organization and administration of HUDC and frequent staff turnover were somewhat disruptive.
12.      Bank - Borrower Relationship
12.1     The relationship between the Bank's missions and the Government and its
implementing agencies remained cordial. The implementing agencies endeavored to provide the
Bank with as much requested information as possible.
13.      Consulting Services
13.1     The project relied on inputs provided by several consultants for conducting studies
and for design and supervision of the various project components. The consultants included
foreign and local firms as well as individual expatriates and local specialists who were employed
by the various implementing agencies to strengthen their in-house capabilities to supervise design
and supervision.  All the project consultants provided good services throughout project
implementation.
14.      Project Documentation and Data
14.1     The appraisal report was generally comprehensive, however, monitoring indicators
to track the numerous project components during implementation were not clearly spelled out.
Earlier progress reports and Bank mission reports lacked specificity. However, later ones
became comprehensive and insightful.
14.2     The data needed to prepare this report were difficult to collect because of the length
of time which elapsed since project preparation; the changes in staff assigned to supervision; and



-13-
the numerous yet disaggregated information systems where data relating to various aspects of
the project were maintained. Moreover, the project files were poorly organized and often
incomplete. Project expenditures were not updated regularly.
15.      Status of Covenants
15.1     All covenants were complied with or under implementation at the closing of the loan.
However, covenants relating to audits were subject to frequent delays (para 5.14).
16.      Lessons Learned
16.1     The project was made unduly complex making it harder to manage and coordinate
by the implementing agency.  Exogenous factors further exacerbated this situation.  The
following are specific lessons, which emerged from the experience of this project:
-   agree with the Government, through broader policy dialogue, on a
comprehensive framework that ensures consistent and streamlined contract
evaluation processes are in place for Bank financed projects. Such processes can
take the form of tender evaluation and award by the implementing agency
instead of national bodies to avoid lengthy and cumbersome procedures;
-   insist on more stringent application of pre-qualification criteria to discourage
financially weak contractors from being awarded contracts which they are
unlikely to finish on time;
-   encourage the implementing agency to use more stringent means to deal with
laggard performance by contractors;
-   conduct Bank procurement and disbursement workshops for counterpart staff
dealing with procurement; and
-   encourage more private sector participation especially in commercially sensitive
aspects such as sales and marketing of plots where they have a comparative
advantage.



-14-
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2587-JO)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Text submitted by Borrower without editing)
Reflection on the Performance of the Bank
A)    Relations between the Bank and the Borrower remained good throughout the
implementation period. Communication between the staff of the two was constant,
frank and constructive. This cohesive relationship proved beneficial for all aspects of
project implementation and should be continued in future projects.
B)    The Bank was always prompt and cooperative in dealing with various matters relating
to the credit. But some issues should be improved for future projects, which are:
1.    Procurement of goods procedures caused some difficulties with Ministry for
Finance. Different agreements with the Bank and other Ministries caused
delays in the document procurement. HUDC is suggesting, that the Bank
reviews their different agreements between the Bank and the implementing
agencies in Jordan.
2.    Differences between the Disbursement Division and Infrastructure Division of
the Bank caused timetaking misunderstandings.
3.    HUDC wishes more involvement of senior staff of Bank in order to avoid
lengthy discussions with them when they come on occasional visits.
4.    More overseas training is requested for HUDC senior staff, e.g. visits to
World Bank in order to study the office procedures and to be introduced to all
staff with whom HUDC is dealing.
5.    Amount of reporting should be reduced e.g. Quarterly Progress Reports should
be changed to bi-annual reports or reduced to summaries.
2.    Reflection on the Performance of the Borrower
A)    The project was conceived as a follow-up project of the very successful UDP1
project. The Identification and Feasibility Studies for the second project was prepared
and completed in Nov. 1984 by consultants as a part of UDP1 required studies. The
project objectives were:



-15-
1.   Improve shelter for low-income people in the Amman region without
government subsidy.
2.    Encourage sound spatial patterns by stimulating urban growth in appropriate
locations at lower infrastructure costs than under traditional practice, and
3.    strengthen institutional capacities in Jordan to undertake low-income shelter
and urbanization projects.
B)   For achieving the above objectives the following components were included in the
project and were successfully completed by the former Urban Development
Department on behalf of the Borrower:
2.1   Upgrading
The goal of this project was to upgrade conditions in two settlements with about 610
families (4.200 people) through regularization of land tenure, provision of water and
sewerage, paved streets and footpaths, community buildings (clinics, community and
women's training centers) and development of infill commercial and residential plots.
One low-income squatter settlement was Hai Amir Hassan (governmental land) with a
population of 1,500 on 3.0 ha, the other Jabal Amir Ali (a population of 2,500 on
18.5 ha). The Hai Amir Hassan site is in the fully developed built-up area of Marka,
and had a population density of about 500 persons per hectare. By November 1985
design and contract documents were ready, tendering and construction was completed
with little delays; construction completion faced a delay of 3 months. With
installation of services and grant of tenure to residents, there was some vertical
extension of existing buildings. The site was handed over to the Municipality of
Greater Amman on Oct. 13th 1992.
On the request of the majority of the inhabitants of Jabal Amir Ali upgrading site the
government cancelled this site in 1989. Design and tender documents were completed
and the contract awarded. The finance for this project (about US$ 5 million) was
cancelled from the loan agreement.
2.2   Site and Services
The SAR required to service land in four sites, Ruseifa 2+3, Marka 2 (Naqab) and
Manara (Um Nowarah) for about (3,420) plots and initial occupancy by-about (3,570)
families (24,000 people), of which about 75% would be in the 10th to 40th percentile.
The new sites provided plots for commercial development and workshops for small
enterprises, and the full range of community facilities.



-16-
Actually a total of 4139 residential plots have been provided on six sites and initial
occupancy by about 4550 families (30,500 people) of which 72% were in the 10th to
40th percentile according to a monitoring survey undertaken in 1992.
Manara was divided into two parts, Manara 2 and Manara 3 to reduce contract risks.
Mustanda S&S has been included in the project instead of Jabal Amir Ali upgrading.
Also Ruseifa 4 S&S has been included in the project and a small portion of Ruseifa 1
extension, due to some excess funds resulting, from the devaluation of the Jordanian
Dinar in 1988 becoming available.
The project included furnishing the sites with a full complement of social services.
Eight new schools and extensions of two schools constructed under former UDP1 at
Ruseifa 1 at the primary, preparatory and secondary levels for boys and girls have
been constructed according to design standards developed under Bank education
projects in Jordan.
Four women's training centers were established and are administered by the
Vocational Training Corporation (VTC). Health clinics were built on 4 sites; this
provision reflected different standards than used in UDPI agreed in connection with
the Jordan Primary Health Care Project. Community centers to be used for day-care
programs, literacy courses seminars, discussion groups, income generating, activities
for women etc. were built at each site. Their design had been modified based on the
experience gained under UDPL. On the request of Civil Defense Department four
emergency service centers were introduced to meet the need for safety and security on
the UDP2 and nearby UDPI sites. They consist of garage space for two fire-fighting
vehicles, two ambulances, one four-wheel drive vehicle and accommodation for fire
and ambulance personnel and one four-wheel drive vehicle and accommodation for
fire and ambulance personnel. All these facilities were equipped under the terms of
the loan.
By November 1985 all project land was acquired, social and physical surveys
underway and the design and contract documents for Ruseifa 2-ready; tendering, and
construction faced minor delay of 5,5 months compared with SAR. Project was
handed over to municipality of Ruseifa on Jan .17th 1993.
Marka 2 project design completion faced a delay of 6.5 months due to access-road
and boundary negotiations with Municipality of Ruseifa and discussions about solving,
safety and health problems of the neighboring waste-water lake with concerned
authorities. Construction for this site was completed with 11 months delay. As for
the Community Buildings which were tendered jointly for Marka 2 and Hai Amir
Hassan upgrading site design and contract documents faced a delay of 7 months while
construction was completed by Jan 1989 with a delay of 6,5 months towards
appraisal. Project was handed over to Municipality of Ruseifa on Dec. 5th 1992.



-17-
Manara project was divided into two parts, Manara 2 and 3, due to expected
contractual risks. The main features like access roads, trunk infrastructure
community facilities and commercial locations were designed as a unit. A part of
Manara is within MOGA boundaries, the rest is the responsibility of MMRAE, so
approval of planning, delayed design and documents completion for 13, 5 months for
Manara 2 and 16 months for Mantra 3.
Construction completion faced a delay of 21,5 months. The contractor faced financial
problems and through the devaluation of the J.D. in 1988 a temporary bottle-neck of
supply of building material arose. UDD supported the contractor during, the last year
of construction by buying the necessary building, material. During maintenance
period the contractor was replaced by another contractor.
The performance of the contractor for Mantra 3 was satisfactory and the construction
faced a delay of 14,5 months towards appraisal.
The design and contract documents completion for the Schools and Community
Buildings of Mantra S&S faced 13.5 months delay for the same reasons as the site
works at Mantra 2, while construction was completed with a considerable 29 months
delay. Contractor was the same as for Mantra 2 S&S.
Because of marketing difficulties for Ruseifa 2 (S&S) Ruseifa 3 was postponed to
monitor this, also the lack of social facilities provision and far location in Ruseifa I
project caused a very low demand. A demand study took place in 1988 - 1989
showing a high demand. Part of Ruseifa 3 was excluded from the project, due to
SAR requirement was only 500 plots. In 1992 this part of 316 plots was included
again as Ruseifa 4. As for Ruseifa 3 construction work is going on up to date. This
serious delay (40,5 months) covers of course the delay for design and documents
completion and also the delay caused by the contractor, who faced some difficulties in
management and financial matters.
The design for the Schools and Community Buildings was completed by Oct 1987,
but tendering, was deferred because of the delay of the site works for the S&S.
Project had also to be retendered due to the devaluation of the J.D., the contractor's
prices were not valuable and government decision to appoint local contractors. In the
first bidding a foreign contractor had been awarded the contract. Construction was
completed in the beginning of 1992 with a delay of 27 months compared with SAR.
Ruseifa 4 has been included in the project in 1992, construction started in July 1992
and should have been contractually completed in May 1993.
In order to meet the number of housing units required by SAR, Mustanda S&S was
suggested as a project of UDP2. Mustanda is serving the south-eastern industrial part
of Amman, the land had already been purchased back in 1986. A feasibility study



-18-
was prepared and approved by the World Bank in 1989. During 1990 the project was
designed, construction started in Nov. 1991 and was contractually expected to be
completed in May 1993. A slight delay occurred due to unexpected soil problems in
some parts of the project.
Schools and Community Buildings were designed during 1990 and construction started
in Nov. 1991 and the girls' school should have been completed contractually by April
1993, a delay occurred due to the structural redesign of the girls school due to soil
problems.
During a World Bank mission in April 1993 the quality of the contractors' work and
HUDC'S site supervision and contract management has been reviewed and been found
satisfactory. But all contracts are experiencing delays, due to a tightening of the
extension of credit, especially to the construction sector where a speculative boom has
driven land and house prices up to unsuitable levels. A recent shortage of building
materials due to the construction boom and the disruption of shipping through Aqaba
also appear to be contributing factors.
2.3   Consultants and Contractors
Performnance of Consultants and Contractors
Consultants
The consultants performance was generally satisfactory. The following is a list of the
consultants' major tasks together with the appropriate comments and remarks.
- Technical Assistance - specialists were provided for finance, marketing, design,
contract documentation, social and community planning, and training.
- Training of UDD staff - the training of former UDD staff was generally sufficient
and included on-the-job training and training in Jordan and abroad.
- Studies
- Feasibility Study for UDP3 - prepared to a high decree of proficiency. Despite this,
the studies did not adequately anticipate the beneficiaries' preference and liking to the
types of plots provided (e.g. plots under 150 m2 were not accepted by the approval of
plots by the beneficiaries).
- Amman Quarries Study - Site identification was undertaken in corporation with the
Municipalities of Greater Amman and UDD Staff. After completion of Phase I the
Board decided to shift all further responsibilities for this study to M.O.G.A. with the
approval of the World Bank.
- Study on Amman Squatter Area Upgrading, Program was completed in context with
the Feasibility Study for UDP3.



-19-
- Study on Enhancing Women's Productivity - was finalized and is now under in all
UDPI and UDP2 sites.
- Design
- Education, Health, Community Centers and Emergency Centers - design were
adequate for all schools and community facilities.
- Supervision
- The performance of supervision consultants was good, reflected in prompt and wise
handling of problems arising on all sites during construction and providing, feed-back
to the design team.
- Contractors
- The quality of the contractors' work was satisfactory, but all contracts faced delays,
due to financial or organizational problems on the side of some of the contractors.
3.    Conclusion
Success & Failure
The positive aspects of the project can be summarized as follows:
- Virtually completing all project components (except of Jabal
Amir Ali).
- Development of appropriate, affordable shelter for low and moderate income
households in urban area.
- An ability to design and implement projects efficiently using in-house staff
for at least the last third of the project.
- The huge community demand generated by the project (3 applicants per plot.
- Prospect of full recovery of project costs, especially at new sites, due to the
provisions of loans to the beneficiaries, by HB at reasonable conditions.
- Institutional development and extension through cooperation between the HB
and UDD making, housing, finance available at reasonable terms to
low-income families.
- The confidence of the Bank and HB in financing a further Urban
Development Project (UDP3).



-20-
- The unprecedented rapid development of sites by beneficiaries within a short
period of initial hand over.
- Success in broadly hitting the target group. According to the latest
monitoring survey 75 percent of new sites residents have incomes below the
40th percentile.
- The ability of UDD organization and HB to cope with the work C) load,
maintain momentum, and respond to chances that have been required.
- The Government's satisfaction with the project's outcome reflected in its
extension of UDD activities beyond the Amman area.
- The flexibility in marketing approaches and policies adopted resulting in an
early completion of sales.
- The provision of complementary social, health, vocational security and
educational facilities to projects sites has been greatly appreciated by
beneficiaries and has been of major assistance in marketing.
- Excellent working relationships maintained between the UDD and
beneficiaries on one side, and the UDD and the concerned municipalities,
ministries, and utility agencies on the other.
The less successful aspects of the project have been:
- Delays in project implementation mainly due to lengthy planning approval
procedures and financial and administrational difficulties of some of the
contractors, especially after the devaluation of the JD in 1988, and during and
after the Gulf crisis in 1990-1991.
- Marketing problems due to lack of community facilities (Ruseifa 2) and no
water connection until now ( Ruseifa 3 +4).
- Redesign of part of a project ( Mustanda) due to unexpected soil problems
during design.
- Small plots of 113 m2 with row houses and 135 m2 met with marketing
difficulties and were modified.
- The need to respond to the influence of official and beneficiaries preferences
in terms of the physical provision, leading to a drift away from lowest cost
solutions in the direction of minimum acceptable municipal standards.



-21-
Lessons Learnt
As a result of project implementation, numerous and valuable lessons were learnt.
The following is a list:
- The extensiveness of services and facilities provided in urban projects is an
important attraction to beneficiaries.
- More contingency time is needed in design time and construction periods in
order to provide a practical rather than theoretical program and disbursement
schedule.
- Concerned authorities need to be involved in projects from the early stages in
order that they can adjust their priorities according to the project needs.
- In physical terms the use of steep slopes, although attractive in terms of land
cost, has led to difficulties of marketing and may point towards a more
detailed evaluation of the cost of site preparation vis-a-vis land cost on steep
sites. However, this is difficult to tackle without a policy of residual land
valuation which is absent in Jordan.
- To improve the site works and to avoid delays in construction completion,
prequalification of contractors should be reintroduced and the construction
quality of each project should be evaluated after construction completion.
- Prequalification for consultants for design and supervision has to be
maintained.
- The new strategy of HUDC to provide only vacant land because beneficiaries
- save 30% or more of the cost if they build their houses by their own
resources.



-22-
Annex 1 to Part II
Community Development Programmes for UDP2:
- Voluntary associations and community cooperatives were established in
Marka 2, Hai Amir Hassan and Mantra 3. They are successfully involved in
running the activities of the Community Centers, total number of participants
in these associations exceed 80 members.
- Community Centers programmes include children's activities, illiteracy
alleviation campaign, women productivity projects and setting-up local
libraries.
- HUDC established a small credit program in late 1992 in the Population
Affairs Directorate. The programme was designed to help low income
residents to study business ideas and provide for them access to obtain the
required funds to setup their businesses.
- Income generating projects for women are proceeding well, more than 200
women are benefiting from these projects and enabling them to earn monthly
income of 10-30 JD's.
- Ruseifa Community Center was handed over to Queen Nour Al Hussein
Foundation to establish a knitting productivity project for women.



-23-
Annex 2 to Part II
Job Opportunities created by UDP2
UDP2 created job opportunities in the following fields:
- 58,000 jobs resulted from construction work;
- 670 jobs resulted from activities of shops and workshops;
- 450 jobs resulted from work activities of the community facilities;
- 370 jobs resulted from activities of the community centers mainly from the
income generating projects.



-24-
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2587-JO)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title     Purpose                              Approval   Status        Comments
Ln. 2841-JO    *Extending the use of improved        1987        Ongoing    The newly created Housing & Urban
Nat'l Urban    planning and design standards to                              Devt. Corp., (HUDC), the result of the
Development   smaller towns and cities.                                      merger of the former UDD and the
*Improving the provision of shelter                          former Housing Corp. (HC), has the
and related services at prices                               power to borrow and issue debentures
affordable to low-income households                          but may also bring about the risk of
without resorting to large Government                        crowding out private sector
subsidies.                                                   participation in the sector.
Ln. 2334-JO    *Strengthening the long-term          1983        Closed      The Project Completion Report is
Amman          planning, investment programming                  06/93       being prepared. However, it is
Transport &    and management functions of the                               believed that the project accomplished
Municipal      Amman Municipality.                                           most of its objectives: Two major
Development   *Upgrading transport infrastructure                            grade-separated intersections were
and traffic conditions on major                              constructed and three transport
arteries, in the central business district                   corridors were upgraded.
and low-income residential areas of
Amman.
Ln. 1893-JO    *Provide shelter and related          1980        Closed     The project achieved its major
Urban         infrastructure and community facilities           06/89       objective of providing good quality,
Development  to low income groups at affordable                             low-cost housing to thousands of low-
prices with a minimum of subsidies.                          income urban families. It has further
0Improve productivity of low-income                          improved the quality of life of the
urban residents.                                             beneficiaries through the provision of a
*Specifically, the project components                        wide range of community facilities and
consisted of: (a) provision of serviced                      activities.
pliots under three sites and services
schemes; (b) upgrading of 4 low
income settlements in the City of
Amman; (c) small business assistance
and manipower training (d) consultancy
services for project management.
Source: ECA/MENA Information Center



-25-
Table 2: Project Timetable
Planned             Actual
Item                                         Date                Date
Identification                               03/82               03/82
Preparation                                  10/82               06/84
Pre-appraisal                                12/82                11/84
Appraisal                                    12/84                12/84
Credit Negotiations                          05/85               05/85
Board Presentation/Approval                  06/85               06/85
Credit Signature                                                 07/85
Credit Effectiveness                         11/85               06/86
Credit Closing                               06/91               06/93
Source: Project Files



-26-
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Appraisal Estimate                         Actual
Semester
Ending
Disbursed   Cumulative   Percentage    Disbursed    Cumulative   Percentage
06/85         0.00         0.00         0.0         0.00         0.00          0.0
12/85         0.10         0.10         4.0         0.00         0.00          0.0
06/86         0,40         0.50         2.0         0.00         0.00          0.0
12/86         1.50         2.00         7.0         0.53         0.53          3.0
06/87         3.30         5.30         19.0        1.21          1.74         10.0
12/87         5.00        10.30        37.0         0.56         2.30         14.0
06/88         6.30        16.60         59.0        3.34          5.64        33.0
12/88         5.00        21.60        77.0         2.70         8.34         50.0
06/89         4.50        26.10         93.0        1.11          9.45        57.0
12/89         1.00        27.10        97.0         1.31         10.76        64.0
06/90         0.60        27.70         99.0        0.58         11.34        68.0
12/90         0.30        28.00        100.0        1.62         12.96        78.0
06/91                                               1.29         14.25        85.0
12/91                                               0.73         14.98        90.0
06/92                                               0.72         15.70        94.0
12/92                                               1,02         16.72        100.0
06/93                                               0.00        16.72         100.0
5ource: Project Files  - ______---
Comments:
(1) As of 10/31/93, disbursements totaled US$16.72 million. Total cancellations amounted to US$ 11.28 million.
E stimated vs.Actual Disbusement
3D
25 _ 8~~ AR E stim a te
25-SAEbm-.~-
Actual Profle               |U$ 4.4rrilnrenei-gintheloWl bearlle
b20 -                                 ,
"c15  .-
3 10                       
5
0
Ln  LO  CD  CD r~    r-L  C'O  M'  Czr   U$            cr> c:     _\, _
,   co         ca-                                c l        F_ _      c , _ 
w   C4  (0   Z    C O      CO z
_ l  _a_                 _          _         _         _         _



Table 3: Loan Disbursements (continue)
Standard Disbursement Profiles
100 -                             55 ::- :: :-:- -              -  |SAR Estimate
9eo                      - :                                                Actual Project Disbursement
so  / , /           --                            Standard Rofile for Urban
o -  i,  f   /    ,               Projects in Jordan
60  /                                                SStandard Profile for al
so - .                ;Ei  ./PRojects in Jordan
40 -*                                                               -   -   Standard Rof ile for Urban
30                                      /                                      ff Projects for all Regions
20 -*                                                                   -   -Standard Rofile for al
/                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sector RYojects for al
10-                                                                          Regions
0~
o .   F..                          i   ii    ii  ii I             
1  2  3 4  5 6  7 8  9 101112131415  16178 1920 21
Semesters after Approval



-28-
Table 4:    Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant    Subject                                    Compliance           Status
LA 2.02(b)  Borrower to open Account in HB.                                 Met
LA 2.03     Closing date shall be June 30, 1991.      06/91                 Extended to June 30, 1993
PA 2.04     Borrower to pay Bank commitment charge                          Met
of 3/4 of 1 % per year on amount of loan
not withdrawn semiannually.
LA 2.04(a)  Borrower to pay interest on amount                              Met
withdrawn and outstanding semiannually.
LA 3.01     Borrower to assist and cause Municipality                       UDD (now HUDC) and HB perform
of Amman through UDD & HB to perform                           with diligence and efficiency.
obligation with diligence and efficiency.
LA 3.03     Procurement of goods and services                               Borrowers follow rules.
according to Bank rules.
LA 3.05     Borrower to complete and provide Bank      12/86                Met
with study on formulation of housing
strategy.
LA 3.05(b)  Borrower to exchange views with Bank on                        Met.
studies under project.
LA 5.01     Effectiveness: Subsidiary loan agreement   10/85               Met
executed.
LA 5.01(b)  Effectiveness: Borrower adopted            10/85               Met
statement of objectives and guidelines for
LIHRF
LA. 5.01(c)  Consultants employed for Section Cl(b) of    10/85            Met
project.
PA          HB to provide beneficiaries with loan                          Met
2.01(b)(ii)   representing 90% of purchase price.
PA          a) Mun. to ensure cost of recovery of plots                    UDD (now HUDC) complied.
2.01(b)(ii)   under parts A & B; and (b) apply excess
amounts to part B(3).
PA 2.01(b)  HB to maintain records and have accounts                       Met
and financial statements audited and sent to
Bank for each FY.



-29-
Table 4:    Covenants (continued)
Deadline for
Covenant    Subject                                   Compliance          Status
PA 2.02     UDD to prepare sites, provide Bank with                       Municipality is no longer involved.
analysis of demand and affordability; and
to sell plots a.s.a.p.
PA 2.06(a)  At Bank's request, Mun. and HB to                             Municipality is no longer involved;
exchange views on project performance                         done with UDD.
and progress.
PA 3.01(c)  Municipality to maintain records and      06/88               Municipality is no longer involved;
through UDD have accounts audited and                         UDD is complying. Audit reports are
sent to Bank no later than 6 months after                     generally slightly delayed.
FY.
PA 3.01(d)  Maintain/retain for I year after closing and                  Not yet due
enable Bank's reps. to examine records.
Source: Project Files



Table 5a:   Proiect Components (Planned)
(Areas in hectares)
Residential Plots                                         Non-Residential Plots
Commercial/            Social/                               Open Space/       Total
Component              Social             Market             Industrial          Community           Non Productive          Green          Area
Area                Area               Area                  Area                Area                Area
Upirading:
Amir Hassan        125       1.86       -          -        16      0.30        2         0.07        -       0.75                0.01      3.0
Sites & Services:
Ruseifa 2          540       9.02      82        1.77       -         -         I        0.00')       -       5.99        -       5.25     22.03
Marka 2            491       7.57      177       3.49       -         -         7         3.62        -       6.45        -       3.46     24.55
Manara 3           612      10.19      252       5.69      119       1.34       6          30         -       8.17        -       1.79      30.18
Ruseifa 3          320       5.63      135       2.77       28      0.84        5         5.06        -       4.53        -       1.61     20.44
Manara 2           445       7.35      68        1.39       25      0.88        3         2.66        -       5.88        -       0.78      18.92
Ruseifa 4          104       1.71      212       4.69       1       0.33        -           -         -       3.07        -       0.40      10.20
Ruseifa Ext.        56       0.87       0          -        -         -         -           -         -       0.42        -       0.01      1.30
Mustanda           399       6.28      246       5.22       1       0.51        7         3.10        -       5.61        -       1.18      21.90
Source: HUM
(1) Less than 0.005
(This table was modified to reflect updated informanon received from HUDC on 03/22/94)



-31-
Table 5b:       Project Components (Actual)
Plots Actually Available     Plot Allocation             Planned
Component           for Marketing              Completed
Social      Market       Social      Market       Social      Market
Upprading:
Amir Hassan*           -           -            -            -           -
Sites & Services:
Ruseifa 2            540           82          536          81          541          83
Marka 2              491          177          483         177          445         178
Manara 3             605          371          602         357          612         252
Ruseifa 3(")          110          -           43           -           320         166
Manara 2             445           93          442          89          513          93
Ruseifa 4('1           -           -            -           -           104         212
Ruseifa Ext.(i'                                                         56           0
Mustanda(')                                                             399         247
ource: HUDC
(1) No marketing information available yet. Site not complete.
(This table was modified to reflect updated information received from HUDC on 03/22/94)



-32-
Table 5c:        Project Implementation (Site Civil Works)
Appraisal                         Actual
Site Component                   Contract      Completion of      Contract       Completion of
Award        Construction        Award         Construction
(Month/Year)   (Month/Year)   (Month/Year)    (Month/Year)
I. Original Sites
A. Up2rading
1. Amir Hassan                                11/86           09/87            01/86            05/87
2. Jabal Amir Ali                             01/87            04/88             o)               (1)
B.  Sites of Services
1. Ruseifa 2 (previously Ruseifa 2A)          12/85           01/88            01/86            06/88
2. Marka 2 (previously Naqab)                 05/86            07/88           02/87            06/89
3. Manara 2 (previously Um Nowarah A)         10/86            09/89           12/87            06/91
4. Ruseifa 3 (previously Ruseifa 2B)          11/86            12/89           10/90            12/93(3)
5. Manara 3'2)                                10/86           09/89            02/88            12/90
6. Ruseifa 4(2)                               06/92            05/93           06/92            12/93 (3
7. Ruseifa Extension(2)                       05/92            01/93           06/92            09/93
II. Additional Sites
A. Sites & Services
1. Mustanda (4)                               01/91           01/93            08/91           12/93 (3
ource: HUDC, SAR
(1) Cancelled from the project as of August 26, 1987.
(2) Original sites/areas extended.
(3) Expected completion date.
(4) Not included in Original Appraisal subsequently added to the project on November 8, 1988.
(5) Contract was re-tendered.
Note: The status of the following contracts are:
(a) At the Mustanda Site: construction of the schools and community buildings are 99% complete; the core housing
units are 88% complete; and rest of site development is 75% complete.
(b) The Ruseifa 3, Ruseifa 4 sites are 89% and 77% complete respectively.
(This table was modified to reflect updated information received from HUDC on 03/22/94)



-33-
Table 5c:    Proiect Implementation (Site Civil Works) (continued)
Appraisal                        Actual
Site Component                 Contract      Completion of      Contract      Completion of
Award        Construction       Award         Construction
(Month/Year)    (Month/Year)    (Month/Year)   (Month/Year)
III. Other Contracts
1. Marka 2 & Amir Hassan Schools &        09/86           06/88            06/87           01/89
Community Building
2. Manara schools & community bldg.        11/86           06/89           12/87            11/91
3. Ruseifa 3 Schools and community        06/87            09/89           03/90           01/92
building and Ruseifa 2 Emergency
Center
4. Marka 2 and Manara 3 Commercial        08/89            04/90           09/89           06/91
site and additional residential in
Manara 3
5. Mustanda School, Health and            02/91            09/93           08/91            12/93
community centers
6. Manara workshop and Ruseifa 3          03/91            09/91           09/92           08/93
commercial site
7. Mustanda Residential Core Units         (5)               _             06/92           02/94! __
ource: SAR and HUDC
(1) Cancelled from the project as of August 26, 1987.
(2) Original sites/areas extended.
(3) Expected completion date.
(4) Not included in Original Appraisal subsequently added to the project on November 8, 1988.
(5) Contract was re-tendered.
Note: The status of the following contracts are:
(a) At the Mustanda Site: construction of the schools and community buildings are 99% complete; the core housing
units are 88% complete; and rest of site development is 75% complete.
(b) The Ruseifa 3, Ruseifa 4 sites are 89% and 77% complete respectively.
(This table was modified to reflect updated information receivedfrom HUDC on 03/22/94)



-34-
Table 6a:    Appraisal and Actual Costs (according to Loan Categories)
(All values in nominal million currency units)
Components                           Appraisal                           Actual(')
(including contingencies)
Total Cost (JD)   Total Cost (US$)   Total Cost (JD)   Total Cost(US$)
Land Acquisition                         7.36              18.40             6.13              18.14
Civil Works, includes:                  18.98             47.46             15.02             24.01
On Plot Development
On Site Infrastructure
Off Site
Equipment                                2.05              5.11              2.13              3.38
Building Loans                           3.87              9.69              2.00              1.43
Design, Supervision and Project          0.97              2.44              2.85              16.82
Management
Technical Assistance (& Training)        0.95              2.38              0.94              1.67
Operating Expenses(3)                    1.22              3.06              3.08              5.56
Total                                   35.40             88.53             32.18             61.02
Source: SAVE, HUDC
(1) Up to 03/31/93 since work on some sites was still ongoing.
(2) Converting the yearly expenditure in J.D. to US$ at average exchange rate for that year.
(3) Includes management cost.



-35-
Table 6b:    Appraisal and Actual Costs (Accordine to Proiect Components)
(All values in nominal million currency units)
Appraisal                              Actual
Components                                                                       TtlCs(S)1
(includes contingencies)       Total Cost (JD)   Total Cost (US$)   Total Cost (JD)   Total Cost(US$)('
UpgradinR:
Amir Hassan                                0.54               1.36              0.74               1.40
Amir Ali                                   2.27              5.68                -(2)               _(2)
Site & Services:
Marka 2 (Naqab)                            6.42              16.05              5.20               9.86
Manara 2 (Um Nowarah A)                   14.25              35.64              5.55               10.52
Manara 3                                    -(3)              _(3)              6.24               11.83
Ruseifa 2 (Ruseifa 2A)                     3.68              9.21               2.77               5.26
Ruseifa 3 (Ruseifa 2B)                     5.97              14.93              5.28               10.01
Ruseifa 4                                   -()                (4)              1.17               2.22
Ruseifa Extension                          -(4)               _(4)              0.27               0.51
Mustanda                                    _(4)              _(4)              4.96               9.41
Studies:                                   0.49               1.23               .s                 -(
Proiect Management; Design &               1.77              4.43                -(6)               _(6)
Supervision:
Total                                     35.39              88.53             32.18              61.02
Source: HUDC
(1) Obtained by converting yearly expenditure in J.D. at the average exchange rate for that year.
(2) Component cancelled.
(3) Included with Manara 2.
(4) Not included at appraisal.
(5) Studies were conducted with Grant Funds from USAID & UNDP
(6) This item is included in the actual expenditure for each of the various project sites.



-36-
Table 7a:    Appraisal and Actual Proiect Financing
(All values in nominal million currency units)
Bank Expenditure     Government Expenditure            Total
Appraisal               Appraisal                Appraisal
Estimate     Actual     Estimate      Actual     Estimate      Actual
(US$)       (US$)       (US$)        (US$)       (US$)       (US$)
Active Components
Land Acquisition                      -           -          18.40        18.14       18.40       18.14
Civil Works                          22.50       13.82       24.96        10.19       47.46       24.01
Equipment                           4.21         1.73        0.90         1.65        5.11         3.38
Building Loans                        -           -          9.69         1.43        9.69         1.43
Design, Supervision & Management    0.98         1.17         1.46        5.65        2.44         6.82
T.A.                                   -          -          2.38         1.67        2.38         1.67
Operating Expenses                  0.31          -          2.75         5.56        3.06         5.56
Total                             28.00        16.72       60.54        44.29        88.54       61.01
ource: SAR, HUDC



-37-
Table 7b:    Appraisal and Actual Proiect Financing (According to Project Components)
(All values in nominal million currency units)
Bank Expenditure      Government Expenditure            Total
Appraisal                Appraisal
Estimate     Actual      Estimate     Actual      Appraisal    Actual
(US$)       (US$)        (US$)       (US$)        (US$)       (US$)
Upgrading:
Amir Hassan                   0.38         0.33         0.98         1.07        1.36         1.40
Amir Ali                       1.89         (l          3.79          -          5.68                l
Sites & Services:
Marka 2                       4.62         4.15        11.43        5.71         16.05       9.86
Manara 2                      10.27        3.39        25.37        7.13         35.64       10.52
Manara 3                        (2)        2.53          (2)         9.30         (2)        11.83
Ruseifa 2                      3.49        2.00         5.72        3.26         9.21        5.26
Ruseifa 3                      5.97        2.88         8.96        7.13         14.93       10.01
Ruseifa 4                       -          0.24          -           1.98          -         2.22
Ruseifa Extension                          0.12                     0.39                     0.51
Mustanda                                   1.08          -          8.33           -         9.41
Studies:                                      -(3)        1.23         (3)         1.23          (3)
Project Management:              1.37         (4)         3.06         (4)         4.43(4)
Total                           28.00        16.72       60.54        44.29        88.53       61.02
Source: SAR, HUDC
(1) Component cancelled.
(2) Included with Manara 2.
(3) Studies conducted by grant funds from UNDP and USAID.
(4) These items are included in the actual expenditures for each of the various project sites.



-38-
Table 7c:    Appraisal and Actual Bank Financinp
SUMMARY OF BANK EXPENDITURES
(all values in million currency units)
APPRAISAL         ACTUAL
Category                    (US$)       (%)(I)      (US$)
(1) Civil Works:
(a) For Recoverable Costs              10.0         50          7.30
(b) For Non Recoverable Costs          10.0         50          6.52
(2) Goods                                     3.5          100         1.73
(3) Consultants
(a) For Recoverable Costs               0.5         100         0.62
(b) For Non Recoverable Costs           0.5         100         0.55
(4) Unallocated                               3.5          0            -
(5) Cancelled                                  -            -         11.28
Total                                         28.0                    28.0
Source: SAR, HUDC
(1)  Percentage of Expenditures to be financed.



Table 8: Rate of return for the all subprojmts (I upgrading ud 8 sites and servkies)
(all vakin c    JD  _i.i 1993 pries)_
1986    1987    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1990   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999-2015   2016   2017   2018   2019   2020   2021
ConiolWdated Cost Stream
Land                                           7.64    3.20    0.27    0.01   0.01           0.16          0.02
Civil Works:
on plot development                          0.09    1.00    1.67    1.01   0.72   0.43   0.33   0.63   0.10
on site infrastructure                       0.25    0.61    1.59    0.4    0.40   0.28   0.44   0.57   0.19
off site infrastructure                      0.04    0.10    0.45    0.18   0.19   0.13   0.22   0.33   0.08
community facilities                                 0.30    1.77    0.44    1.23   1.23   0.39   0.76   0.07
Equipment                                                      0.25    0.41    0.21   0.38   0.22   0.44   0.22
Beneficairy Building Costs:
financed by loans                                    0.04    0.19    0.23   0.25   0.29   0.05   0.23   0.35   0.45   0.13
financed from own resources                                                                       0.28   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.05
Design. Supervision and Project Managment      0.67    0.69    0.99    0.75   0.48   0.66   0.34   0.08   0.11
Operation and Manintenance                     0.11    0.07    0.24    0.24   0.30   0.35   0.39   0.45   0.49   0.51   0.52   0.53   0.54       0.54      0.08   0.06   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08
Total Cost                                     8.82    6.02    7 41    3 70   3.79   3.81   2.54   3.77   1.95   I.30   0.98   0.87   0.59       0.54      0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08
Consolidated Benefit Stream
Imputed Rental Value:
Residential social plots                                     0.22    1.16   3.85   4.60   5.07   5 31   5.86   6.00   600   6.00   6.00        6.00      0.34   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.34        t
Residential market plots                                             0.02    0.36   0.52   0 63   0.87   0.94   0.96   0.96   0.96   0.96      0.96      0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10
Commercial plots                                                     0.01    0.04   0.13   0.25   0.63   0.43   0.46   0.46   0.46   0.46      0.46      0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11
Total Benefit                                  0.00    0.00    0.22    1.19   4.26   5.25   5.95   6.80   7.24   7.42   7.42   7.42   7.42       7 42      0.55   0.55   0.55   0.55   0.55   0.55
Consolidated Net Benerit(Cost)                (8.82)  (6.02)  (7.19)  (2.51)  0.46   1.44   3.41   3.03   5.29   6.12   6.44   6.55   6.83       6.88     0.47   0.47   0.47   0.47   0.47   0.47
Overall Average Economic Rate of Return          14%
General Notcs:
1. Cost and benefit streams are consolidated for the 9 individual project components.
2. Costs for land acquisistion is the estimated market value.
3. Project investment costs exclude taxes.
4. Each subproject has a useful life of 30 years.
5. Operation and Maintenance are estimated at 3% of initial cost of infrastructure and social facilities.
6. Imputed rental values were obtianed by a recent surveys by HUDC: Residential JD 80-150/month/plot,; Commercial JD 200/month/plot.
7. 1993 and 1994 investments are based on going contract values.
8. Building loans were reported by HB.
9. Beneficiary Building Costs form own resources were estimated by HUDC surveys
Sturcc HUDC



-40-
Table 9a:    Mission Data
Type of Mission                             Mon/Yr A of Persons Days in    Performance         Types of Problems
Field      Rating
A. Up to Appraisal
Reconnaissance                              10/81   3             31          N/A
Pre-identification                          03/82   4             52          N/A
Identification                              02/84   2             25          N/A
Preparation                                 06/84   3             21          N/A
Preappraisal                                09/84   -(')         -()          N/A
Preappraisal[2'                             12/84    1            5           N/A
B. Appraisal to Board Approval
Appraisal                                   02/84   4             72          N/A
C. Board Approval to Effectiveness
Supervision I (prior to effectiveness)      09/85    1            14          N/A              I
Supervision II (prior to effectiveness)     02/86   3             15          N/A              I
D.Effectiveness to Completion
Supervision III                             05/87   2             32          N/A              I
Supervision IV                              11/87    1            10          N/A              I, Pr.
Supervision V                               05/88   2             15          1                M, Pr.
Supervision VI                              10/88   3             51          2                M,I,Pr.
Supervision Vff3)                           05/89   3             48          1                M
Supervision VII(3')                         03/90   2             60          -)               M,P
Supervision IX                              12/90    1            6           -"'              M,P,Pr.,I
Supervision X(3)                            06/91    3            48          2                M,1,Pr.
Supervision Xl                              12/91   2             28          2                M,Pr.
Supervision X11(3>                          06/92   3             28          2                M,I,Pr.
Supervision XIII(3                         05/93   5             78          2
Supervision XIV(3)                          06/93   2             30          2                M
M: Managerial; P: Political: 1: Institutional; T: Technical; Pr: Procurement; F: Local Funding; N/A: Not Applicable
Source: Project Files
(I)          Not available. Project Files had incomplete data.
(2)          Loan Officer review mission
(3)          Overlap with supervision of other projects.



-41-
Table 9b:    Staff Week Cost Summary
(Values in Staff weeks)
Project     FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92  FY93  FY94
Cycle__ __
LENP        24.5    1.9    3.8   13.7       -
LENA          -      -       -    37.0      -
LENN                         -     4.8      -
SPN          =       -                     6.7    6.4   15.6   16.6   8.5   10.4   11.0   11.0         -
PCR                          -      -       -      -      -       - -  -  -      -                    7.0
Source: MIS
FY           -  Bank's Fiscal Year
LENP         -  Lending - Identification, Preparation and Preappraisal
LENA         -  Lending - Appraisal
LENN         -  Lending- Negotiations
SPN          -  Supervision
PCR          -  Project Completion Report



-42-
Table 10:    Financing of Allocated Plots
Site            Number of Market Plots Financed by          Number of Social Plots Financed by
HB Loans                Cash               HB Loans                Cash
Uperadine:
Amir Hassan(' 
Sites & Services:
Ruseifa 2                     19                    62                   297                  234
Marka 2                       82                    96                   333                   149
Manara 3                      108                  206                   471                   130
Ruseifa 3(2)
Manara 2                      37                    50                   335                   105
Ruseifa 42)
Ruseifa Extension (2-
Mustanda (2_
Source: HUDC, HB
(1)          All plots were occupied.
(2)          No marketing information available / site not complete.



JORDAN
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (UDP 11)
LOCATION OF PROJECT SITES
0           2           .            ^                                ZAR-A
-4.  8. -,o4 4.  I4  t/ *424 .4
\            ~~~~~~SCHNELLER /     -      RUSEIFA/,1   ,l, ,
) TARIO  CAMP  1  %  M.:.l  .. ' / .......... iccr;lznr+.lstsUL-PAFSAlP18
ITY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
/        "'                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
b(44441 ,ofl A4             p.   U. '                                                 31? -COWNENTSCOMPLEDUNDCR
_, ,',A N ,4                   \                            UDPI {P'oI=!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DPj
\   (   /4  *               >                      d    *    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SITES AND SERVICES
_f \ \Wahdot>g X 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UILT UP AREAS AS Of 1989
S els ~~~~~~~~QUWEISHMEH                                                         _MAIN ROADS
. I / g \ { o R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIIROAL)
= </      >,~~~~~~A \4 L At HAWDt 
< <    AL QASR   \    |   $       x                            O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CCCUJPIED TEPRRIORIES
'RAWDA      t                    AULANDA                                         r ?          SRA             .^
/UMM   /                                        -   i    ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARAB REP / 
EL MUQABLEN          .                                                                    9       
/   ,                     \         S~~~       ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~AHAB      JORDAN\
/ IKRBET ES-SUQ     i                              
m / \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30 )30
/          \                      \                    /           /'    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAUDI ARWAgl
trv M   baolid  (   s+o tot I^Je  _ _   JT, .                                - .._t 36      3'     



