Report No. PID6351
Project Name                     West Bank and Gaza - Bethlehem 2000 Project(@ ..)
(Municipal Development II)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Project ID                       GZSF53985
Borrower                         The Palestine Liberation Organization
for the Benefit of the
Executive Authority of the Palestinian
Council
Implementing Agency              The Bethlehem 2000 Project Organization;
Ministry of Local Government, Ministry of
Tourism and Department of
Antiquities (MOTDA); Ministry of Culture (MOC);
the municipalities of
Bethlehem, Beit Sahour, Beit Jala, and Doha;
and the Palestinian Economic
Council for Development and Reconstruction
(PECDAR)
PID Date                         April 27, 1998
Appraisal Date                   May 1998
Board Date                       September 1998
1.      Sector Background.   This project (B2000) builds on the initiatives of the
existing Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP, FY96), extending
these initiatives to the four municipalities (Bethlehem, Beit Sahor, Beit
Jala, and Doha) which together comprise the Bethlehem area. MIDP focuses on
high-priority infrastructure rehabilitation as well as municipal reform and
capacity building. The latter has a national as well as a local dimension.
The national dimension focuses on systemic legal, institutional, and financial
reform involving such issues as: decentralization (central/local
relationships); revenue mobilization and sharing; regional investment
programming; and the role, structure, and capacity of the Ministry of Local
Government. The local (municipal) dimension focuses on: improving financial
planning and management; modernizing accounting systems; improving revenue
mobilization and cost recovery; strengthening service delivery; and
rationalizing, commercializing, and privatizing service provision.
Strategy. The strategy is to use the unique opportunity presented by the
millennium celebrations and the special religious, cultural, and historical
significance of Bethlehem to accelerate progress toward the achievement of a
number of important developmental objectives.
Objectives. The primary objectives are to:
- strengthen the economic base and foster sustainable development of the
Bethlehem area through tourism promotion;
- strengthen the infrastructure, financial and managerial base of the
Bethlehem area municipalities through a program of investment, reform, and
capacity building;



- begin to foster the preservation of cultural assets in Bethlehem (assets of
worldwide importance and value) by initiating a process of policy and
institutional reform and capacity building, and by physical rehabilitation
and adaptive reuse.
2.      Project Description. In addition to providing significant support for
the staging of the Bethlehem 2000 celebration activities and extending the
existing MIDP to the Bethlehem area municipalities, the project begins to
address some of the issues of tourism development and cultural preservation
specific to these municipalities.
The specific project components are:
- Celebrations Support. Support to the B2000 Foundation for preparing and
staging the celebrations, including technical assistance for strategic
planning, finance, and fund raising; event development, marketing,
sponsorship; overall program management and coordination; and necessary
preparatory studies, contract documentation, and supervision related to the
above;
- Physical Works. Support to the Bethlehem 2000 Project Organization and the
Bethlehem municipalities for:
a) rehabilitation of essential infrastructure and services (roads, drains,
water, sewerage, community buildings, and parking structures), including
especially, but not limited to, the essential infrastructure and services
required for staging the celebrations;
b) rehabilitation and adaptive reuse of historic buildings.
The above includes necessary preparatory studies, contract documentation and
supervision;
- Medium-term Capacity Building. Support to:
c) the four area municipalities for undertaking fiscal, financial, and
managerial reforms, including greater attention to financial planning,
accounting systems, cost recovery, and service delivery and maintenance
programming (cf. Municipal Development I Project);
d) the Ministry of Tourism and Department of Antiquities (MOTDA) and the
Ministry of Culture (MOC) for initiating the development of a cultural
preservation policy and an appropriate institutional framework, and for
establishing a Cultural Preservation Unit for the Bethlehem area;
- Operational Support. Support to the Bethlehem 2000 Project Organization,
area municipalities, MOTDA, and MOC for essential incremental operating
expenses (including salaries, rent, utilities, equipment, and supplies for the
first 2 years).
3.      Project Financing.   The preliminary estimated total project cost is US$65
million, which would be financed by: an IDA Credit (from the Trust Fund for
Gaza and West Bank) of US$25 million; and US$40 million in cofinancing. The
financing plan will be confirmed during negotiations. In order fast-track
some urgent infrastructure works to maintain the Year 2000 timetable,
-2 -



retroactive financing of up to a currently undefined maximum percentage of the
credit amount will be identified at appraisal and provided for.
4.      Project Sustainability.   Through this project, systemic reform and
capacity building at both the local and central levels of government that
began under MIDP would continue. At the municipal level, the project would
help support steps to mobilize revenues on a sustainable basis, improve cost
recovery, and strengthen municipal financial and asset management. At the
national level, a significant boost would be given to tourism development and
cultural rehabilitation.
5.      Program Objective Categories and Poverty Category.    The project would
help to strengthen the economic base and foster sustainable development of the
Bethlehem area through tourism promotion and development of the
infrastructure, financial, and managerial base of the Bethlehem area
municipalities through a program of investment, reform, and capacity
building. In addition, the project would to begin to foster the preservation
of cultural assets in Bethlehem (assets of worldwide importance and value) by
initiating a process of policy and institutional reform and capacity building,
and by physical rehabilitation and adaptive reuse. In the short run, the
infrastructure and historic buildings rehabilitation and improvement
components would generate a significant number of skilled jobs at the
municipal level, and the maintenance subprogram would provide lower skilled
jobs.
6.      Environmental Aspects.   Category B is proposed for this project.   Please
see Environmental Annex attached.
7.      Benefits.  While widespread benefits would accrue to the Bethlehem area
population (estimated at 100,000 in 1997), significant benefits also would
accrue to the entire WBG population from the stimulus provided to the tourist
industry and the general improvement in urban efficiency. The benefits to the
area include:
- employment generation;
- improvements in public health and environmental conditions;
- reductions in vehicle operating costs and travel times; preservation of
local infrastructure and cultural assets; improvement in the conditions for
private sector investment and development;
- improvement in fiscal efficiency;
- increase in the long-term potential of Bethlehem as a tourist destination;
increased tourism earnings by both the private and public sectors.
The wider benefits include:
- reduction in the demands made on the PA's budget by the area local
governments;
- increased foreign exchange earnings;
- increased international awareness of Palestinian and Arab culture; and
- increased international recognition and understanding of the problems and
economic potential of Palestine.
Contact Point:                   Kingsley Robotham, Task Manager
-3 -



The World Bank
West Bank and Gaza Resident Mission
P. 0. Box 54842, Jerusalem, Israel
Telephone:    972-2-574-6500
Fax:         972-2-574-6543
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 8, 1998.
Note:   This is information on an evolving project.    The contents of this
document are subject to
change and the components described may not necessarily be included in the
final   project.
Environmental Annex
Category B is proposed for this projet. Implementation of the proposed
project would result in significant improvements in the management of water
and wastewater in the Bethlehem region. Rehabilitation of the road network
would include improvements to drainage, thus reducing flooding in
municipalities and erosion; in addition, the resulting efficiencies in travel
operations would reduce air pollution. Proposed activities to be supported
under the project would be subject to the environmental screening and review
process that already exists under MIDP, and the cultural preservation aspects
would make an important contribution to long-term cultural preservation in
Bethlehem and Palestine in general. Similar works under three existing
projects are classified under environmental category B.
MIDP capacity building encompasses five pilot municipalities: Nablus, Jenin,
Hebron, Gaza, and Rafah.
-4-



