Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 026046
Trust Fund Credit Agreement
(Bethlehem 2000 Project)
between
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION As Administrator of 
the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
Dated November 2, 1998
TF 026046 
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 2, 1998, between PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund 
for Gaza and West Bank, established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and 
IDA 93-7, as amended by Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and further amended by 
Resolution No. 96-11 and IDA 96-7, of the Executive Directors of the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association 
(the Trust Fund).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association has resolved, on July 
13, 1998, to, inter alia, replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of ninety million 
dollars ($90,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the surplus of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West Bank (the West 
Bank) which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority (as this term is 
hereinafter defined);
(B)
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, inter alia, sets 
out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank (the 
Interim Agreement);
Page  2
(C)
Section 1 of Article II of the Interim Agreement envisages the election 
in Gaza and the West Bank of a council with legislative and executive authorities 
which shall, upon inauguration thereof, assume all powers, responsibilities, rights, 
liabilities and obligations of the Palestinian Authority (the Palestinian Council); 
Section 1 of Article V of the Interim Agreement provides that the executive authority 
of the Palestinian Council shall be bestowed upon a committee to be formed in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of Article V of the Interim Agreement (the 
Palestinian Authority); and Section 5 (b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement 
authorizes the Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in 
certain cases described thereunder, sign agreements with states and international 
organizations for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority;
(D)
the Palestinian Authority, on behalf of the Borrower, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Credit to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit of the 
Palestinian Authority, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions” set forth in Schedule 1 to the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement between the Administrator and the Palestinian Economic Council for 
Development and Reconstruction, dated September 7, 1994, relating to the Emergency 
Rehabilitation Project (TF 026066 GZ), as amended, with the following modifications 
thereto (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons 
or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to 
the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(b)
Paragraph (g) of Section 6.02 is re-lettered as paragraph (k) and the 
following new paragraphs (g) through (j) are added in said Section 6.02:
“(g)
The Borrower or any Project implementation entity shall, without 
the consent of the 
Administrator, have (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in 
part, any of its obligations 
arising under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement; 
or (ii) sold, leased, transferred, assigned, or 
otherwise disposed of any 
property or assets financed wholly or in part out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, except with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business which, 
in the 
opinion of the Administrator, (A) do not materially and adversely affect 
the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project, or the 
ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any 
of its obligations 
arising under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, 
or to 
achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do not materially and adversely affect 
the 
financial condition or operation of the Project implementation entity.
(h)
Any Project implementation entity shall have ceased to exist in 
the same legal form 
as that prevailing as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement.
(i)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, 
disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of any Project 
implementation entity.
Page  3
(j)
In the opinion of the Administrator, the legal character, 
ownership or control of 
any Project implementation entity shall have changed 
from that prevailing as of the date of the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement so as to 
materially and adversely affect (i) the ability of the 
Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project; or (ii) the ability of the Project implementation 
entity to 
perform any of its obligations arising under, or entered into 
pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of the 
Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) 
at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Credit will not be required to 
finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, 
the 
Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of 
any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with 
the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals to such 
amount. Upon the giving of such notice, 
such amount of the Credit shall 
be canceled.”
(d)
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.01 is re-lettered as paragraph (h) and the 
following are added as new paragraphs (d) through (g) of said Section:
“(d)
The Borrower or any Project implementation entity shall, without 
the consent of the 
Administrator, have (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in 
part, any of its obligations 
arising under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement; 
or (ii) sold, leased, transferred, assigned, or 
otherwise disposed of any 
property or assets financed wholly or in part out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, except with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business which, 
in the 
opinion of the Administrator, (A) do not materially and adversely affect 
the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project, or the 
ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any 
of its obligations 
arising under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, 
or to 
achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do not materially and adversely affect 
the 
financial condition or operation of the Project implementation entity.
(e)
Any Project implementation entity shall have ceased to exist in the same 
legal form as that prevailing as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
(f)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of any Project implementation entity.
(g)
In the opinion of the Administrator, the legal character, ownership or 
control of any Project implementation entity shall have changed from that prevailing 
as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement so as to materially and adversely 
affect (i) the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the Project; or (ii) the 
ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any of its obligations arising 
under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, or to achieve the 
objectives of the Project.”
Page  4
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“B-2000 Authority” means The Bethlehem 2000 Project Authority, a public 
authority established under the laws in effect in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority pursuant to Presidential Decree 
No. 9 dated March 20, 1998, for purposes of planning and managing the Celebrations (as 
this term is hereinafter defined);
(b)
“CBU” means the Capacity Building Unit within MLG (as this term is 
hereinafter defined);
(c)
“Celebrations” means the cultural, social, religious and international 
media events scheduled to take place in the West Bank city of Bethlehem over the 
period commencing December 1999 and ending March 2001 to celebrate the 2000th 
anniversary of the birth of Christ;
(d)
“DOA” means the Department of Antiquities within MOTA (as this term is 
hereinafter defined);
(e)
“Implementation Agreements” means, collectively, the agreement to be 
entered into by MLG and each of the Participating Municipalities pursuant to paragraph 
A.1. of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term shall include all schedules to the Implementation Agreement;
(f)
“MLG” means the Ministry of Local Government of the Palestinian 
Authority;
(g)
“MOC” means the Ministry of Culture of the Palestinian Authority;
(h)
“MOTA” means the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities of the Palestinian 
Authority;
(i)
“Participating Municipalities” means the municipalities of the cities of 
Bethlehem, Beit Jala, Beit Sahour and Doha;
(j)
“Project” as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement forms part of, or 
is related to, the B-2000 Authority’s program of activities.
(k)
“Special Account A” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
“Special Account B” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
“Special Account C” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, Special Account A, Special 
Account B and Special Account C; and
(o)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term shall include all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Page  5
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may open and maintain, in dollars, three (3) separate 
special deposit accounts (Special Account A, Special Account B and Special Account C) 
in one or more commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Special Account A shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under 
Categories (1), (2) (a), (3) (a) and (4) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; Special Account B shall be used exclusively to finance 
expenditures under Categories (2) (b), (3) (b) and (4) (b) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and Special Account C shall be used 
exclusively to finance expenditures under Categories (2) (c), (3) (c) and (4) (c) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to pay to 
the Administrator a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to pay to the 
Administrator a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to repay the 
principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and 
December 15 commencing December 15, 2008 and ending June 15, 2038 Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on June 15, 2018, shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  6
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Palestinian Authority with due diligence and efficiency, 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and environmental 
practices and in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement of 
the Borrower and the Administrator, and shall cause the Palestinian Authority to 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to the 
Palestinian Authority under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Administrator.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority (i) to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of 
the Palestinian Authority therein set forth; (ii) to take all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
for the carrying out of the Project; and (iii) not to take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Palestinian Authority and 
the Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Palestinian Authority 
and the Administrator, a plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Palestinian Authority on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to 
maintain, in respect of the Project, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
of the agencies and departments of the Palestinian Authority, including the B-2000 
Authority, responsible for carrying out the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to: (i) have the 
records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section (including those for 
the Special Accounts) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator; (ii) furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall 
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Page  7
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the Palestinian Authority to: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Administrator’s representatives to 
examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of 
such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Palestinian Authority shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the B-2000 Authority 
or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and the Palestinian Authority;
(b)
that the B-2000 Authority has employed a finance director and a marketing 
director;
(c)
that the B-2000 Authority has put in place, at its headquarters, suitable 
computerized accounting, project planning, control and monitoring systems;
(d)
that MLG has put in place, at its headquarters, suitable computerized 
accounting, project planning, control and monitoring systems; and
(e)
that the Implementation Agreements have been executed on behalf of MLG 
and each of the Participating Municipalities.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority in accordance with its terms and that the 
Implementation Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and 
delivered on behalf of, MLG and each of the Participating Municipalities, and are 
legally binding upon MLG and each of the Participating Municipalities in accordance 
with their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  8
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Beirut Street, Rimal,
Gaza City, Gaza
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ramallah as of the day, month and year first above written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
For the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority
By /s/ Mohammed Nashashibi 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
As Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
By /s/ Joseph P. Saba 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit
% of Eligible
Allocated (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
U.S. Dollar Equivalent
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
13,700,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
85% of local 
expenditures
Page  9
(2)
Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(a)
under Parts A, B and D
   100,000
(ii) of the Project
(b)
under Parts C.1 and D (i)
   900,000
of the Project
(c)
under Part C.2 of the
   100,000
Project
(3)
Consultants’ services, training 
100%
and studies:
(a)
under Parts A, B and D 
 4,000,000
(ii) of the Project
(b)
under Parts C.1 and D (i)   1,100,000
of the Project
(c)
under Part C.2 of the         800,000
Project
(4)
Incremental Operating
100% of foreign
Expenditures:
expenditures and
85% pf local
expenditures
(a)
under Parts A, B and D 
1,000,000
(ii) of the Project
(b)
under Parts C.1 and D (i)
  300,000
of the Project
(c)
under Part C.2 of the 
  100,000
Project
(5)
Unallocated
2,500,000
TOTAL
      25,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than the parts of the West Bank and 
Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency used in 
the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority or for goods or services supplied from the parts of the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, provided, however, that if the 
currency used in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority is also that of a country from the territory of which goods or 
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall 
be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Expenditures” means expenditures incurred 
on account of the Project for payments for salaries, rental of office space, utility 
charges, maintenance of vehicles, fuel, office supplies, translation services, 
printing, publications, communication services and travel expenses.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
Page  10
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed five million dollars 
($5,000,000) may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of 
payments made before that date but after July 15, 1998.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) works costing less than the equivalent 
of $100,000 per contract; (ii) goods costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 per 
contract; (iii) contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent for services with 
firms; (iv) contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent for services with 
individuals; (v) contracts for training, studies, seminars and workshops; and (vi) 
Incremental Operating Expenditures.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the B-2000 Authority for the 
preparation, launching and management of the Celebrations; (b) to strengthen the 
economic and cultural base of the Participating Municipalities and foster their 
sustainable development through the promotion of tourism; (c) to upgrade the 
infrastructure of the Participating Municipalities and strengthen their financial and 
managerial capabilities; and (d) to commence the process of preserving cultural assets 
in the West Bank and Gaza through policy and institutional reforms and capacity 
building.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Celebrations Support
Support to the B-2000 Authority, through the provision of goods and consultants’ 
services, for purposes, inter alia, of staging the Celebrations, developing and 
implementing suitable marketing and public relations programs in support of the 
Celebrations, and planning, coordinating, monitoring and managing the infrastructure 
construction activities required to stage the Celebrations.
Part B:
Infrastructure and Cultural Heritage Rehabilitation
Carrying out a program to: (i) rehabilitate infrastructure and services in the 
central and southern parts of the West Bank, including roads, water systems, sewerage 
systems, drainage systems, historic buildings and historic municipal cores; and (ii) 
protect archeological chance finds.
Part C:
Capacity Building Support
1.
Carrying out a program to strengthen the capabilities of the Participating 
Municipalities to plan, finance, manage and maintain municipal infrastructure and 
services.
2.
Carrying out a program to strengthen the capabilities of DOA and MOC, inter 
alia, to: (a) review the existing legal and institutional framework governing cultural 
heritage preservation and management; (b) disseminate, through the holding of 
seminars, cultural heritage preservation policies and practices with a view to sharing 
regional experiences; and (c) carry out a study to identify sustainable commercial 
options for adaptive re-use of cultural heritage assets in the Bethlehem area. \0c
Part D:
Project Monitoring and Reporting
Support, through the provision of goods and expert services: (i) to MLG to  
monitor progress in Project implementation and carry out its financial reporting 
obligations under the Project; and (ii) to the B-2000 Authority to carry out 
environmental advisory, training and monitoring functions under the Project.
*  *  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Administrator in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 
1997 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Goods and works to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall be subject to the following provision, 
namely, that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in, and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors from, the West Bank or Gaza.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, and not to 
exceed $9,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate, and goods estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, and not to exceed $300,000 equivalent in the 
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Administrator. 
Said procedures shall ensure, inter alia, that: (i) tenders shall be advertised for at 
least two (2) consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide circulation; (ii) 
prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) days between the date 
upon which the notification appears in the newspaper for the first time and the date 
upon which the bid is submitted; (iii) the format of the bidding documents shall be 
consistent with that of the Administrator's standard bidding documents, or with the 
format of bidding documents used by United Nations Agencies operating in the West Bank 
and Gaza; (iv) interested foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid; 
(v) bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes and shall be accepted whether mailed 
or hand-carried; (vi) all bids shall be opened at the same time in public; (vii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; (viii) no bidder shall be 
requested or permitted to modify his, her or its bid after the bid closing date shall 
have elapsed; (ix) price negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidder shall be 
limited to cases provided for under the Guidelines; and (x) postqualification criteria 
shall, in the absence of a prequalification process, be explicitly stated in the 
bidding documents.
2.
International/National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, and not to 
exceed $200,0000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with 
provisions 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, and not to 
exceed $100,000 equivalent in the aggregate, and works estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Force Account
Page  12
Small works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Administrator’s prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines.
5.
Works procured pursuant to paragraphs 3 and 4 above shall not exceed $500,000 
equivalent in the aggregate.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) the first two contracts each for works and goods; (b) any 
contracts for goods or works procured in accordance with the provisions of Part B.1 of 
this Schedule; and (c) each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Administrator in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions 
of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-Based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
Page  13
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Contracts
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with 
the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of  the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to any other contract for the employment of consulting 
firms, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Administrator for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have 
been given.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation and Coordination
1.
The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to vest the responsibility 
for implementation of Parts A, B and D (ii) of the Project in the B-2000 Authority, 
Part C.1 of the Project in the Participating Municipalities pursuant to the 
Implementation Agreements, Part D (i) of the Project in MLG and Part C.2 of the 
Project in DOA and MOC.
2.
Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall 
cause the Palestinian Authority to vest in: (a) the B-2000 Authority the 
responsibility for environmental monitoring under the Project; and (b) MLG the 
responsibilities for the consolidation of the Project’s accounts, monitoring progress 
in the implementation of the Project and preparing the reports referred to under 
paragraph C of this Schedule.  MLG shall carry out such responsibilities through CBU.
B.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through the Palestinian Authority, shall: (a) maintain policies 
and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Administrator, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; (b) prepare, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator, on or 
about  October 1999, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
Page  14
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and (c) review with the Administrator, by February 2000, or such 
later date as the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter.
C.
Progress Reports
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and to those of Paragraph B of this Schedule, the Borrower shall cause the Palestinian 
Authority, commencing January 15, 1999, and quarterly thereafter until completion of 
the Project, to prepare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request describing the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) (a), (3) (a) and 
(4) (a) in respect of Special Account A, Categories (2) (b), (3) (b) and (4) (b), in 
respect of Special Account B, and Categories (2) (c), (3) (c) and (4) (c), in respect 
of Special Account C, all as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into a Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, in case of Special Account A equivalent to $3,000,000, in case of 
Special Account B equivalent to $200,000, and in case of Special Account C equivalent 
to $100,000.
2.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation relative to 
said Special Account, and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account, 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
Page  15
have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into either Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation for Special 
Account A , Special Account B and Special Account C.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in a Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account in question (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Admini\1fstrator into either Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in either Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
Page  16
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
