Page  1
TF022965
Austrian Grant Agreement
(Relating to the Bethlehem 2000 Project
in the West Bank and Gaza)
between
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(as Administrator of the Grant provided by the Republic of Austria
through the Austrian Development Cooperation)
Dated January 17, 2000
AUSTRIAN GRANT NUMBER TF022965
AUSTRIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated January 17, 2000, between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the “Administrator”) of 
a grant (the “Grant”) provided by THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA THROUGH THE 
AUSTRIAN DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION (the “Donor”), and THE PALESTINE 
LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
(the “Recipient”).
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement dated November 2, 1998, between the 
Administrator and the Recipient (the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or 
“TFCA”), the Administrator has agreed to provide the Recipient with a 
credit (the “Credit”) in an amount equivalent to twenty five million 
United States dollars (US$25,000,000) to assist in financing the carrying 
out in the West Bank and Gaza (“WBG”) of the Bethlehem 2000 Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the TFCA (the “Project”);
(B)
The Donor, has agreed, under a letter of agreement (“Letter 
of Agreement”) with the Administrator, dated October 5, 1999, to provide 
the Grant in an amount equivalent to seven hundred twenty six thousand 
seven hundred twenty eight Euro (EUR726,728) to assist in financing the 
Project;
Page  2
(C)
The Donor and the Administrator have agreed, under the 
Letter of Agreement, to assign the responsibility for administration of 
utilization of the proceeds of the Grant for purposes of the Project to 
the Administrator; and
(D)
the Administrator undertook under the Letter of Agreement to 
implement the procedures and conclude the agreements required to 
implement the Letter of Agreement and to achieve the objectives of the 
Grant.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions, as amended, referred to and 
modified in Section 1.01 of the TFCA (the “General Conditions”) shall 
apply mutatis mutandis to this Agreement.
 
Section 1.02. The several terms defined in the TFCA, the General 
Conditions referred to in the preceding Section and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and (a) the 
term "Grant Account" means the account maintained by the Administrator, 
in which the amount of the Grant is deposited, and (b) the term "Grant 
Special Account" means the account to be opened by the Recipient pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in 
an amount equivalent to seven hundred twenty six thousand seven hundred 
twenty eight Euro (EUR726,728).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works and services 
approved for financing from the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement.
(b)
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Grant, open and 
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
or attachment. Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
works and services to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the TFCA.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2002 or such 
later date as shall be determined by the Administrator in agreement with 
the Donor. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
Section 2.05. Disbursement from the proceeds of the Grant 
(including deposits into the Special Account) shall be made only to the 
extent that resources adequate to meet such disbursement shall have been 
transferred from the Donor to the Administrator.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the context may otherwise require, Articles 
III, IV and V of, and Schedules 2, 3 and 4 to, the TFCA are hereby 
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if 
they are fully set forth herein. For this purpose all references in said 
Articles and Schedules to: (a) the "Administrator" shall be deemed to be 
references to the International Development Association as Administrator 
of the Grant; (b) the "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be deemed to be 
references to the Grant and the Grant Account, and (c) the "Special 
Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Special Account referred 
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
the Recipient shall ensure that the entire amount of the Grant shall be 
allocated for works and services required for the carrying out of the 
rehabilitation of the Beit Jala Old Core under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature 
thereof by the parties hereto and shall continue in effect until 
termination of the Letter of Agreement or until the Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations thereunder, whichever occurs first.
Section 4.02. In accordance with the Letter of Agreement, the 
rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be 
terminated under a notice from one party to the other. The Recipient 
accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the 
Recipient to that effect, the Donor shall, ipso facto, from the date 
specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement as if the Donor had been an 
original party to this Agreement, without any further action or formality 
required on the part of any party, and from such date the Administrator 
shall cease to have any rights or obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Representatives
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority 
shall be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Beirut Street, Rimal,
Gaza City, Gaza 
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
MCI 248423; or
Page  4
Washington, D.C.
MCI 64145
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
representatives duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed 
in their respective names in the West Bank as of the day and year first 
above written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
By /s/ Mohammed Nashashibi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(as Administrator of the Grant provided by the 
Republic of Austria 
through the Austrian 
Development Cooperation)
By /s/ Joseph Saba
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to such 
Categories and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in such Categories:
    Amount of the
     % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Euro)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Works
676,728
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and
and 85% of 
local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants' Services 
 50,000 
100%
TOTAL
726,728
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures for works 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the 
parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in 
the currency used in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority or for works or services 
supplied from the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction 
of the Palestinian Authority, provided, however, that if the currency 
used in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Page  5
Palestinian Authority is also that of a country from the territory of 
which works or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for 
such works or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) works costing 
less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract; and (ii) contracts 
costing less than $50,000 for services.
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of works and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated to 
the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to US$250,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it 
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or 
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the 
Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  6
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, 
the Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Administrator such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined 
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly 
from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to 
the eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall 
follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund 
to the Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the 
Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  7
