                                          Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                         Report No: 27501




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (TF-22273 TF-22965 TF-21208 TF-26046 TF-24962)

                                            ON A

                                            CREDIT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 25 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                    WEST BANK AND GAZA

                                            FOR A

                                G Z- BETHLEHEM 2000 PROJECT




                                        December 29, 2003




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Region

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective November 2003)

                                    Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekel (NIS)
                                            NIS 1 = US$ 0.22
                                            US$ 1 = NIS 4.50

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1 to   December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APIB        Arab Palestine Investment Bank
Authority   Bethlehem 2000 Authority
B2000       Bethlehem 2000 Project
BAM         Bethlehem Area Municipalities
BMM         Bethlehem Municipalities Management
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CBU         Capacity Building Unit
CDP         Community Development Project
CG          Consultative Group
CH          Cultural Heritage
CHA         Cultural Heritage Authority
CHDM        Cultural Heritage Development Management
CQ          Consultants' Qualifications
DOA         Department of Antiquities
ECU         European Currency Unit
EIB         European Investment Bank
ERP         Emergency Rehabilitation Project (1+2)
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
EU          European Union
FA          Force Account
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GPN         General Procurement Notice
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IS          International Shopping
JSC         Joint Services Council
LCS         Least-Cost Selection
LG          Local Government
LIR         Legal and Institutional Reform
MCHPB       Municipal Cultural Heritage Program Boards
MIDP-1      Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
MLG         Ministry of Local Government
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOTA        Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
MOC         Ministry of Culture
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
NS          National Shopping

O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PA       Palestinian Authority
PECDAR   Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
PCBS     Palestinian Central Bureau of statistics
PCD      Project Concept Document
PDP      Palestinian Development Plan
PEnA     Palestinian Environmental Authority
PLO      Palestinian Liberation Organization
QBS      Quality-Based Selection
QCBS     Quality-Cost Based Selection
SA       Special Account
SOE      Statement of Expenditures/Expenses
SPN      Specific Procurement Notice
SS       Sole-Source Selection
TA       Technical Assistance
TFGWB    Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
TOR      Terms of Reference
UNDB     United Nations Development Business
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNESCO   United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID    United states Agency for International Development
WBG      West Bank and Gaza


                                Vice President:      Christiaan J. Poortman
                              Country Director       Nigel Roberts
                                Sector Director      Emmanuel Forestier
                               Sector Manager         Hedi Larbi
                           Task Team Leader:         Ibrahim Dajani

                                     WEST BANK AND GAZA
                                GZ - BETHLEHEM 2000 PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
    6. Sustainability                                                                10
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
    9. Partner Comments                                                              14
    10. Additional Information                                                       14
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
    Annex 8 Project Co-Financing                                                     27
    Annex 9 Minutes of Stakeholder Workshop                                          29
    Annex 10 Partners comments                                                       34
    Annex 11 Footnotes                                                               39
Map IBRD No. 29778

Project ID: P053985                                                  Project Name: GZ-BETHLEHEM 2000
Team Leader: Ibrahim Dajani                                          TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 31, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: GZ-BETHLEHEM 2000                                        L/C/TF Number: TF-22273; TF-22965;
                                                                                                     TF-21208; TF-26046;
                                                                                                     TF-24962
   Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                 Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (40%); Roads and
                            highways (20%); Water supply (20%); Sewerage (20%)
                  Theme: Municipal governance and institution building (P); Other urban
                            development (P); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/20/1998                                     Effective: 12/18/1998                12/18/1998
     Appraisal: 08/28/1998                                         MTR: 06/05/2000                  06/05/2000
      Approval: 09/22/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PLO FOR BENEFIT OF PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY/BETHLEHEM 2000
                                           PROJECT AUTHORITY; MLG; MOTA/MOC
                      Other Partners:      Bethlehem Area Municipalities

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Nigel Roberts                                  Joseph Saba
Sector Director:                Emmanuel Forestier                             Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader at ICR:             Ibrahim Dajani                                 Kingsley Robotham
ICR Primary Author:             Kinglsey Robotham


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Bethlehem 2000 Project (B2000) was presented to the Board in September 1998 and became
effective in December of that year. It built on the foundation of three earlier successful Bank-supported
projects, Emergency Rehabilitation Projects One and Two (ERP-1&2) and the first Municipal
Infrastructure (MIDP-1).    1 The first two projects sought to tackle the huge infrastructure backlog in the
West Bank and Gaza (WBG). The third (MIDP-1) continued these efforts but also sought to begin to
tackle the more deeply entrenched institutional issues in the local government sector. B2000 aimed to
further these efforts, focusing on the Bethlehem area municipalities. However, there was one very
significant difference. It sought to take advantage of the unique opportunity offered by the end of the
millennium to highlight Bethlehem's enormous cultural, historical and religious assets and to jumpstart
the Palestinian tourism program, thus harnessing a key resource for national development. The specific
objectives of the project were to:

1.       Strengthen the economic and cultural base of the Bethlehem Area Municipalities and foster their
         sustainable development through tourism promotion and product development;
2.       Strengthen the infrastructural, financial and managerial base of these municipalities through a
         program of investment, reform and capacity building; and
3.       Begin to foster the preservation of the very valuable cultural assets in Bethlehem and Palestine
         by initiating a national process of policy and institutional reform and capacity building.

Conflict and Crisis: The above objectives were pursued against the backdrop of the enormous social and
economic dislocation which characterized WBG after September 2000--the beginning of the current
Intifada. By December 2000, WBG was in a de facto state of war, and Bethlehem was one of the centers
of the war. The city was re-occupied by Israeli troops. Manger Square and the Church of the Nativity
(core pilgrimage sites of the Christian faith) were under a siege by the Israeli army for several months
during 2001, in their pursuit of alleged Palestinian militants holed up inside the Church. During this
period, more than 20 persons died and several more were wounded. Normal life came to close in the
area municipalities, as citizens were confined to their homes for extended periods. This, widespread
Israeli border closures, restrictions on the mobility of Palestinians citizens, and severe dislocation of PA
institutions, economy and social life made it impossible to continue to pursue the development and
reform objectives.2 Further, the violence and Israeli security actions caused significant damage to the
newly rehabilitated infrastructure, and led to the collapse of the tourism industry nationally, and in
Bethlehem. In sum, Bethlehem was an arena of conflict for about one-half of the project implementation
period, and this had a severely negative impact on the project. In addition, while the situation has eased
somewhat in recent months with the pulling back of Israeli troops from the center of Bethlehem, it will be
a long time before life returns to normal--at least to the conditions that prevailed at appraisal. Because
of the above, expectations had to be lowered, and some components significantly modified in response
to the more urgent needs of the client. In effect, force majeur post September 2000 led to a significant
change (downgrading) in objectives.

Relative Importance of Objectives: It is clear from the SAR that objectives one and two were of primary
importance.      Objective number one went beyond the Bethlehem area as the celebrations and the
development of tourism industry in general were of national importance. This is evidenced by the high
level of involvement of the PA and the patronage of President Arafat himself. Meeting the hard deadline
of December 31, 1999 was critical, thus celebration related physical and capacity building objectives
were to be pursued first. The municipal capacity building objectives were seen as essential for sustaining
the investments, but there were no hard deadlines here. Accordingly, related activities were scheduled
for years two and three. Cultural heritage preservation was important, but the objectives here were
modest: to "begin to foster" and "initiate" only.

In this ICR, we examine the extent to which the project met both its original and revised objectives and
the lessons learned. Bank OED guidelines recommend that in cases of force majeur the project should



                                                      - 2 -

be assessed on the basis of revised objectives. These guidelines have been applied in the assessments
below. Our findings are based on reviews of the project files; discussions with participating agency and
Bank appraisal and supervision staff; and the proceeding of stakeholder workshop held on October 15,
2003. With respect to original objectives, we conclude as follows:

l      Despite the highly successful celebrations in December 1999 and significant private investments
       during 1998-2000, tourism development objectives were only partially achieved;
l      The infrastructure rehabilitation and development sub-objectives were fully achieved. However,
       the sub-objectives of strengthening the financial and managerial base of the Area Municipalities
       municipal capacity building were only partially achieved;
l      The cultural heritage preservation and reform objectives were only partially achieved.

Overall, therefore, original objectives were only partially achieved. With respect to revised objectives
(see discussion below), we conclude that these were substantially achieved.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Objectives remained unchanged up to September 2000. Thereafter, a number of changes were made in
consultation with the PA and management.      3The tourism development objectives were abandoned--the
crisis having made further progress impossible. The municipal and cultural heritage reform and capacity
building objectives continued to be pursued, but expectations had to be reduced considerably. With
unemployment rising dramatically in late 2000, a new sub-objective of emergency employment relief was
adopted. An additional new objective (damage repair) was incorporated in mid-2002 in response to the
widespread destruction of infrastructure, services and building arising from the crisis. In August 2002,
the project was formally restructured as part of a comprehensive restructuring of WBG projects in
response to the crisis. Though not specifically stated, after September 2000 the (de facto) revised
objectives and related priorities may be summarized as follows:

R1.    Helping to generate emergency employment in response to the crisis (new; priority 1).
R2.    Helping to strengthen the managerial base of the municipalities through a program of investment,
       reform and capacity building (downgrading of original objective #2; priority 2).
R3.    Helping to foster the preservation of the very valuable cultural assets in Bethlehem and Palestine
       by initiating a national process of policy and institutional reform and capacity building
       (downgrading of original objective #3; equal priority 2 ).
 R4.   Helping to repair and rehabilitate essential infrastructure, services and buildings damaged
       because of the crisis (new priority 3).

3.3 Original Components:

The project was originally comprised of the following components:

1. Celebrations Support (US$6.0m;24% ): Support to The Bethlehem 2000 Project Authority for: a)
technical assistance (TA) and consultants' services--including strategic planning, finance and fund
raising, event development, marketing and sponsorship, environmental management, construction
management, and overall celebrations program management and coordination; and for b) capital and
operating expenses.

2. Infrastructure and Cultural Heritage Rehabilitation Works (US$15.0m; 60%): Support to the Bethlehem
2000 Project Authority and Bethlehem municipalities for: a) rehabilitation of essential Infrastructure and
Services (roads, drains, water, sewerage, buildings, and parking structures); b)           rehabilitation and
adaptive reuse of historic municipal cores of Beit Jala and Beit Sahor and              buildings;   and   c)
archeological chance find protection.




                                                     - 3 -

3.    Capacity Building (US$3.5m; 14%): Support to: a) Bethlehem Area Municipalities for B2000
emergency services programming; financial and managerial and accounting systems reform; joint
services, development and infrastructure O&M programming; studies to enhance competitiveness in
regional, national and international markets; and b) to the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities (MOTA)
and the Ministry of Culture (MOC) for: Cultural Heritage Preservation policy and legal reform and
institutional development; seminars and training; action plan for Hebron/Jericho municipalities, and a
plan for the promotion of Palestinian culture. (The latter subcomponent ("b") was to be undertaken jointly
with UNESCO.)

4. Overall Project Monitoring and Reporting Support (US$0.5m; 2%): Support to a) To the Ministry of
Local Government MLG for: technical, financial and progress monitoring and reporting; project
accounting systems establishment and management; and development indicator monitoring; and b) To
B2000 Project Authority for environmental training and monitoring.

3.4 Revised Components:

Consistent with the revised objectives the following new infrastructure-related sub-components were
included after September 2000:

R1.Emergency employment generation (US$1.5m; 6%)
R2.Damage repair (US$2.2m; 9%)

Despite the change in objectives, the main components were never formally changed because there was
no compelling need to do so. (The infrastructure components had been quite broadly formulated in the
Legal Agreement.) However, beginning in December 2000, and at the request and with the approval of
MLG and the B2000 Authority, uncommitted funds were reallocated from celebrations support and
capacity building components to the infrastructure component. These funds were initially used to support
an infrastructure-based, labor-intensive emergency employment generation program, and later on (in
2002) to support a program of damage repair-- both as part of a wider donor effort. At the same time,
the scope of the tourism development, municipal and cultural heritage capacity building, and project
monitoring and reporting components were scaled back, reflecting the changed objectives outlined
above.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

 Quality was not explicitly addressed at appraisal. However, it is rated satisfactory on five key criteria:

 1. Consistency with Country Strategy: While it was not initially obvious to all, the project was a very
 creative attempt to mobilize a key resource for national development and to help provide an enabling
 environment for private sector participation. It was thus supportive of and wholly consistent with the
 Strategy for WBG as enunciated in Board Paper R98-96, dated April 28, 1998.

 2. Project Design: The project design responded appropriately and effectively to the priorities of the PA
 and the critical tasks that had to be accomplished, particularly those of coordination, institutional
 support, donor mobilization, infrastructure rehabilitation and capacity building. The latter was proposed
 in the areas that were critical for sustaining the development effort at the municipal and community
 levels--municipal management and finance and cultural heritage preservation.

 3. Participation and Dialogue during Preparation: Dialogue with the PA and donors was both positive
 and extensive during preparation, and culminated in the Bank cosponsoring a successful Donor
 Conference in Brussels in May 1998 with the EC, UNDP and UNESCO. The dialogue also resulted in
 the decision by the Bank to provide interim support to the B2000 Authority by reallocating uncommitted
 funds from another project for this purpose. This enabled an early start in addressing the most urgent
 issues, based partly on the reallocation of US$1.0 million from the MIDP-1 project in November 1997



                                                    - 4 -

 for this purpose.

 4. Preparedness for Implementation: The good record of implementation up to September 2000
 demonstrates the readiness at appraisal, as well as the wisdom of the appraisal team in seeking to
 provide bridge funding in response to a very late start by the PA. There is one caveat here, though.
 This involves the institutional aspect of the cultural heritage preservation component. At appraisal it
 was expected that UNESCO would take the lead in coordinating and supporting the implementation of
 this component, and that the two Ministries with responsibility for culture (Ministry of Tourism and
 Antiquities and Ministry of Culture) would be jointly responsible for implementation. The risks of this
 joint responsibility arrangement were duly noted by the team and mitigation measures proposed.
 However, during implementation, several problems arose leading to significant delay.

 5. Project Risk Evaluation: While no one in the Bank or the donor community apparently foresaw the
 conflagration that was to ensue after September 2000, the risks were clearly identified at appraisal. The
 SAR states: "This is a context of very high uncertainty and risk," indicating the nature and potential
 impact of the risks, and proposed appropriate mitigation measures. A key expectation was that the
 keen interest of both the Israeli and Palestinian public and private sectors in the success of the
 celebrations would provide a measure of protection against serious political dislocation. This hope
 proved justified up to mid-2000, during which period there was substantial informal coordination. For
 example, in late 1999 the Israeli government significantly upgraded the main entrance road to
 Bethlehem and provided very impressive decorative lighting on the approaches to the city. However,
 all this good will was quickly dissipated when the crisis of September 2000 arose. The mitigation
 measures were unable to withstand such a severe shock.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall achievement of (revised) objectives was satisfactory.4 In order to ensure clarity and permit
comparisons, the assessment presented below covers both the original and the revised objectives; but in
keeping with OED guidelines, only the latter are considered decisive with respect to the final assessment
of the project. (A similar approach is taken below with respect to outputs, Section 4.2.)

Original Objectives

1: Strengthen the economic and cultural base of the Bethlehem Area Municipalities and foster their
sustainable development through tourism promotion and product development.

This objective was partially achieved. However, a significant beginning was made. During 1999-2000,
considerable progress was made in mobilizing funds from donors, encouraging private investment,
improving and diversifying the tourism product and promoting tourism, but this was terminated by the
crisis. With respect to visitation, the lower of two projections (700,000 visitors) was met in 1999, but the
1.4 minimum target for 2000 was missed. Only 800,000 persons visited, though at mid-year area hotels
were reportedly much over-booked. In         2001, due to the crisis visitation fell dramatically to not more
than about 40-50,000 (probably a high estimate given the situation on the ground). However, there were
many positives: First, some 10-15 donors including the US, UK, France, Germany, Spain, Portugal,
Norway, Sweden, Japan and Greece among others, contributed some US$80m equivalent to the
effort--$4 to every $1 contributed by the Bank.      The Bank contribution was instrumental in helping to
mobilize these funds and to ensuring their effective utilization. Second, the program managed to attract
the attention of the Pope, US President Clinton, Boris Yeltsin, James Wolfensohn and several other
world leaders and dignitaries, securing for Palestine attention that mere money cannot buy. Third, the
Israeli tourist industry was also gearing up for the event, and the Israeli government, itself, took
significant steps during 1999 to facilitate increased visitation, including improvements to the airport, tour
operations, and the approaches to Bethlehem. Finally, the private sector invested some US$120m in
hotels, convention facilities, parking structures, tour operations etc., partly as a result of the favorable



                                                     - 5 -

environment created by the project.

2: Strengthen the infrastructural, financial and managerial base of these municipalities through a program
of investment, reform and capacity building.

This objective was substantially achieved. The infrastructural strengthening sub-objective was fully
achieved, considering the improved safe access to essential services through improved roads networks
and to healthy water and safe disposal of wastewater through the constructed and rehabilitated networks
throughout the 5 participating municipalities. On the other hand, the sub-objective of strengthening the
financial and managerial base of the area municipalities was partially achieved. The achievements were
in the area of municipal investment and joint services programming, and in municipal project
management capability--the latter due partly to the experience of managing the job creation and
damage repair programs.


3: Begin to foster the preservation of the very valuable cultural assets in Bethlehem and Palestine by
initiating a national process of policy and institutional reform and capacity building.

This objective was partially achieved.         Apart from the rehabilitation work in the old city cores
implemented under the project, a Center for Cultural Heritage Preservation was established in
Bethlehem, charged with continuing the preservation and reuse effort. In addition, a draft cultural
heritage and natural preservation law has been completed. However, the scope of a number of the
planned supporting studies had to be reduced due to a late start, time constraints and the extenuating
circumstances.      Partly offsetting this is the fact that responsibility for the sector has now been
consolidated under one ministry (MOTA), removing a major obstacle to effective policy making.

Revised Objectives     5




 R1: Helping to generate emergency employment in response to the crisis.

         This objective was fully achieved. Some 40,000 person-days of temporary employment were
         created during the period December 2000 to June 2003.

 R2: Helping to repair and rehabilitate essential infrastructure, services and buildings damaged because
         of the crisis.

         This objective was fully achieved.       Considerable progress was made in repairing damaged
         infrastructure and buildings during the one-year period beginning mid-2002.

 R3: Helping to strengthen the managerial base of the municipalities through a program of investment,
         reform and capacity building.

         This objective was substantially achieved (See original objective #2 above.)

 R4: Helping to foster the preservation of the very valuable cultural assets in Bethlehem and Palestine by
         initiating a national process of policy and institutional reform and capacity building.

         This objective was substantially achieved. (See original objective #3 above.)

4.2 Outputs by components:

The overall achievement of the revised outputs was satisfactory.

Originally Planned Outputs




                                                       - 6 -

1. Celebrations Support: Outputs here were satisfactory. Of the two targets, one was fully achieved and
the other partially so. The record was as follows:

l   A competent organization (the Authority) was established and made operational by March 1999. The
    organization was particularly effective in the following areas: Infrastructure programming and
    implementation; planning, budgeting and accounting; donor mobilization and coordination; events
    planning and management.
l   Very successful internationally televised celebrations were held at Christmas 1999 and Easter 2000.
l   Private sector mobilization could also have been improved, but the record here is still
    creditable--particularly with respect to hotels, the tour bus garage, a local parking garage, and the
    convention center.
l   The main weaknesses were in the areas of marketing, sponsorship, and community relationships, but
    these did not substantially affect the achievement of the main objectives.

2. Infrastructure and Cultural Heritage Rehabilitation Works: Outputs here were high. Two of five targets
were overachieved and the others achieved. In particular:

l   The targets for road and water network rehabilitation were considerably over-achieved (roads: 77 vs.
    18km.; water: 64 vs. 5.6km.).
l   The targets for reduction in road congestion achieved (about 50% reduction in travel time),
l   The target for water beneficiaries were achieved (about 16,000 persons, or about 20% of area
    population, benefited directly)
l   The targets for historic preservation rehabilitation were achieved (some 3-400 units in the old city
    cores rehabilitated) and about 20 households have completed preservation efforts on their own.
l   The targets for employment generation were achieved (about 100,000 person-days of direct
    employment created).

3. Capacity Building Support: Outputs here were, on balance, modest.             Outputs on the municipal
subcomponent were modest, while those on the cultural heritage preservation component were
substantial. The record was as follows:

l   Computerized accounting systems reform and maintenance programming targets were not achieved.
l   Only 2 of the planned 7 studies were undertaken.
l   All five Area Municipalities completed diagnostic studies, prepared three-year investment plans,
    identified the potential for joint service delivery, and agreed on a list of high priority individual and
    joint projects.

With respect to the cultural and natural heritage preservation subcomponent, two of the three targets
were achieved and one partially achieved. The record was as follows:

l   A new draft law has been prepared and will be presented to the legislative council for review and
    ratification.
l   A Center for Cultural Heritage Preservation has been established in Bethlehem from the core of
    cultural heritage staff of the B2000 Authority.
l   The Center is receiving considerable continuing support from a number of other donors, including
    UNESCO, Italy, UK, and Spain among others.
l   Responsibility for the sector has now been consolidated under one ministry (MOTA)

4. Overall Project Monitoring and Reporting: Outputs here were satisfactory. Two of the three of the
targets were achieved. The record was as follows:

l   Disbursement lagged targets somewhat in the first years, but this was mainly because a number of
    other donors including the Israelis) came forward with additional funds, and earlier than originally
    anticipated.
l   Accounting systems and reporting systems were well managed by the Authority, and were effective.
l   Initially, MLG did not manage the accounting and reporting systems effectively as originally planned.



                                                     - 7 -

    The Authority had to fill the breach, and did so effectively. However, by 2002 they were able to
    produce effective reports, due partly to training received under MIDP-1.

Revised Outputs

R1. Emergency Job Creation: Outputs here were highly satisfactory. The record was as follows:

l   Some 25,000 person-days of temporary employment were created.

R2. Damage Repair: Outputs here were highly satisfactory. The record was as follows:

l   The targets for damage repair were accomplished, including repairs to 32 roads; 5 schools, 9 public
    buildings, electrical networks, and replacement of municipal equipment (vehicles and computers).

One particular experience stands out: During the closing months of the project, some 5 contractors were
simultaneously at work rehabilitating the old Al-Anatreh quarter of Bethlehem adjacent to the Church of
Nativity, with over 100 laborers and 20 supervisors attending to complementing contracts.               They
completed the job in 3-4 months--record time creating , and in time for project closing.

R3. Municipal Capacity Building (downgraded original output #2): Outputs here were satisfactory. As
noted above, the record was as follows:

l   All five Area Municipalities completed diagnostic studies, prepared three year investment plans,
    identified the potential for joint service delivery and agreed on a list of high priority individual and
    joint projects (including sanitary landfill, controlled slaughter house, wastewater treatment plant, etc).

R4. Cultural Heritage Capacity Building (downgraded original output #3): Outputs here were satisfactory.
     (See original objective #3 above

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The on-going crisis made it difficult to credibly re-estimate the economic rate of return (ERR) of the
project for two reasons: First, it proved very difficult to collect the necessary data on a timely basis,
largely because of travel restrictions. Second, and more importantly, some of the key assumptions
(including travel) on which the analysis was based are no longer valid due mainly to the crisis. As noted
elsewhere in this report, the crisis resulted in the severe restriction on movement of people and goods
through border closure, military checkpoints (estimated at 140) and roadblocks; the consequent sharp
reduction in traffic, particularly on the two regional roads (Beit Sahour and Road No. 60) which formed
the core of the roads program; the reduction in water consumption due to loss of employment and
therefore income (as a matter of fact the poor have been getting even poorer, with average daily
consumption slipping from US$1.47 to US$1.32 and food consumption declining by 25 to 30 percent on a
per capita basis), and the consequent reduction in revenues for water service delivery; and the sharp
decrease in the revenues from tourism because of the dramatic fall in the number of visitors. Because of
these factors and the lack of accurate data, only a brief qualitative review was undertaken. The latter is
presented in Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact was substantial despite the crisis and subsequent downgrading of
objectives. Four examples of significant impact can be cited:




                                                       - 8 -

l    National Confidence and Institutional Capacity Building: A very capable implementing Authority was
     established and functioned very effectively during its short, three-year life. In addition, even though
     it was disbanded as planned, it proved that when the need arises Palestinians are able to come
     together at short notice, build very effective organizations, and put on a creditable world-class
     performance capable of attracting a large international audience.
l    Municipal Capacity Building: While not having been able to undertake the entire capacity building
     program (for reasons beyond their control), area municipalities benefited significantly nonetheless.
     Due to the project, they are now far more aware of their responsibilities for managing the cities, and
     the potential for cooperation and the development of joint service councils. In addition, their capacity
     to engage in diagnostics and strategic planning, and to undertake procurement and project
     management has been strengthened through their participation in the employment generation and
     damage repair subcomponents of the project.
l    Cultural Heritage Capacity Building: However modest, a Cultural Heritage Preservation Center now
     exists in Bethlehem where none existed before. This provides a platform on which to build. In
     addition, a draft law has been prepared, and is expected to be completed by December and enacted
     shortly thereafter.    Further, responsibility for cultural heritage preservation policy had been
     consolidated under a single ministry, the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities.
l    Social (Community) Learning: The Bethlehem area community is now much more aware of the
     value and willing to protect and enhance their cultural assets. This is evidenced by the fact that
     some twenty householders have recently completed rehabilitation at their own expense and with the
     support and assistance of the Center-- an almost entirely new phenomenon.
l    Technical Capacity Building: Local architects, engineers and builders are now able to undertake very
     effective preservation work.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The overriding and ultimately decisive factor was the Israeli military response to the Palestinian Intifada.
This led to the occupation of the area municipalities, the curtailment of the movement of people and
goods, the devastation of the Palestinian economy, the crippling of the tourist industry and, of course, the
inability to implement key project subcomponents.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

There were at least two significant factors. The most important was the long delay by MOTA and MOC in
agreeing on responsibility for implementation of the cultural heritage capacity building component, and
MOTA's failure to deliver even after responsibility was ceded to them. A second factor was MLG's
failure to perform its agreed tasks effectively during the first three years of the project. On the positive
side, the Ministry of Finance very effectively managed VAT refunds to contractors. This contributed
positively and significantly to the implementation of works.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Two areas of significant weakness on the part of the B2000 Authority stand out. The first was in not
building a strong and supportive partnership with area municipalities and communities, many of whom
initially saw the Authority as interlopers and usurpers.       The second was the Authority's failure to
capitalize effectively on the marketing and sponsorship opportunities--partly out of inexperience, and
partly out of the lack of a commercial orientation. The Authority seemed to place little faith in the
municipalities and the local business community, and this lack of trust was reciprocated.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The project was very effectively managed by the Authority, and most subprojects were completed within
budget. In addition to the Bank's funding, the governments of Norway, Italy and Austria contributed a



                                                     - 9 -

total of US$ 3.5m equivalent in joint cofinancing to support high priority road and water supply projects.
Greece contributed US$0.76m in cofinancing through a parallel Bank project (MIDP-1).                    Parallel
financing contributed by other donors but managed by the B2000 Authority amounted to almost US$80m
equivalent, most of it going to infrastructure rehabilitation.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project is deemed, likely. This is so despite the crisis.

The tourism industry collapsed due to the security situation, and the municipal capacity building
components which were designed to support and ensure sustainability, had to be considerably reduced in
scope. Nevertheless, should some semblance of peace return to the region within, say, the next 2-3
years, it should not be too difficult to reactivate the capacity building program and build on the
accomplishments to date. This is so for a several reasons:

l   Bethlehem is a powerful symbol all over the world, particularly for Christians, so there is likely to be a
    considerable pent       up tourism demand which, if carefully managed, can yield significant dividends
    to the community and to Palestine.
l   The main attractions are largely intact, and physical damage, while significant, should not be too
    difficult to repair if funds are made available, an exercise already underway.
l   A considerable number of new hotel rooms were added by the private sector during the 1998-2000
    period, so increased capacity exists and developers have an incentive to recoup their money by
    tourism promotion.
l   Several public/private sector initiatives, which were cut short by the Intifada, can be resuscitated
    without too much difficulty. Examples include the initiative to organize and manage the area around
    Church of the Nativity in such a way as to yield revenues to the municipality which in turn can be
    used for upkeep, the convention center, the Artas recreation area, and the old civic cores.
l   Due to the celebrations, the community is now much more aware of its cultural assets, their value
    and their potential. This should assist the preservation and reuse effort. As noted above, some
    twenty households in the Beit Jala municipalities have rehabilitated their culturally valuable building.
l   Similarly, the area municipalities are now much more aware of their cultural assets, their value and
    their potential. Area municipalities are also far more aware of what can and needs to be done
    institutionally and financially to protect and manage these assets, and the need and possibilities for
    joint municipal action as well as for joint public/private sector activities.
l   The new Center for Cultural Heritage Preservation will help ensure that the existing assets are even
    further protected and responsibly developed, thus deepening the tourism product and making the
    area even more attractive to visitors; and the continued work of the center itself is assured by recent
    contributions from Italy, UK, Finland, Germany, Sweden and Spain, among others. Particularly
    worthy of note is US$0.5m equivalent contribution from Italy (through UNECSO) for the preparation
    of a Cultural Heritage master plan for the Bethlehem area.
l   As already noted, responsibility for the management of culture heritage has now been consolidated
    under one governmental authority (the Ministry of Tourism).              This will greatly facilitate policy
    coordination, management, and continued capacity building.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Considerable attention was given to transition issues by the Authority and the supervision team during
implementation. It was originally planned that the Authority would have a limited three-four year life.
However, during implementation both parties felt that the capacity built up under the project should not
be dissipated, but should be harnessed for further national development efforts in the area of tourism
and cultural heritage preservation. With the devastation of the tourist industry after September 2000 and
the general social, economic and political turmoil, such hopes were abandoned. Thus, there is no easy
transition path. With reactivation of capacity building efforts in the future, the municipalities should be
capable of meeting the increased maintenance burden if funding and additional training is made



                                                     - 10 -

available. However, tourism will certainly need something akin to the Authority if it is to capitalize on its
tremendous possibilities--two to three million visitors per year, or a more than doubling of current best
visitation performance to date. With respect to cultural heritage preservation, the proposed new law and
the nascent preservation center established in Bethlehem should provide a solid foundation on which to
build, but considerable support will be required by the international community to assure this.
Fortunately, Italy, UNESCO, DFID and a number of other donors are already moving to provide this
continuing support.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance is deemed highly satisfactory. The project was developed in a relatively short period
of time (7 months from identification to negotiations) and was highly responsive to the needs of the
client. The critical factor facing the client in 1998 was how to coordinate and manage a complex
undertaking and put on a world-class cultural and touristic performance against a tight budget and very
short and wholly unforgiving deadline--December 31, 1999. Until the Bank became involved in late
1997, there was no coherent strategic plan for the development, rehabilitation and financing of
infrastructure; the marketing and staging of events; the raising of sponsorship; or for the broadcasting the
event to a worldwide audience. Nor was there an institution in place capable of effectively managing
these tasks. UNDP and a number of donors had pledged assistance, and UNESCO made a major
contribution by undertaking a study of the infrastructure and cultural heritage preservation needs.
However, little attention had been paid to managerial and financial issues. Even less attention had been
paid to mobilizing the private sector and the local community, building local capacity, or to harnessing
the potential of the occasion to mobilize the tourist industry.

Given the deadline, the appraisal team worked quickly and closely with PA officials to develop strategy,
a business plan and an organizational framework, to prioritize infrastructure sub-projects, to help
mobilize donor funding and technical support, and to help them prepare for a successful international
donor support conference, which was held in Brussels in May 1998. The latter was sponsored jointly by
the EC, UNDP, UNESCO and the Bank. The supervision team also moved quickly to secure bridging
funds for the purpose of supporting the establishment of a capable project organization, and undertaking
preparatory tasks prior to effectiveness. This was done by facilitating the reallocation of US$1m from the
on-going MIDP-1 project in November 1997.

One key design decision, among many, was to seek to employ the services of a competent international
construction management firm to coordinate all the physical works--including works being funded by
other donors and implemented by other agencies the municipalities. A second key decision was to seek
to employ international event management and marketing consultants to help develop the strategy for
these subcomponents--a strategy, which failed as it turned out, but had the effect of educating the staff
of the Authority and galvanizing them into action to fully mobilize and exploit local talent. A third key
decision was to seek help from IFC in supporting private sector initiatives, particularly in hotel
construction and in the construction of the tour bus terminal.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank Supervision performance is rated highly satisfactory. The team was resourceful and responsive
throughout. Because of the late start in preparing for the celebrations on the part of the PA, the
supervision team decided to focus on Celebrations Support and Infrastructure and Cultural Heritage
Rehabilitation tasks, and to delay implementation of other components. This was crucial for making the
deadline, but had the negative effect of delaying the municipal capacity building effort. It had the effect
of falsely communicating to the municipalities a lack of interest on the Bank's part, and this caused some
difficulties with them in the first two years. This was a difficult trade-off, but was probably justified in the




                                                     - 11 -

circumstances. Given the level of unprepared ness of the PA in December 1998 when the project
became effective, it was unlikely that all components could have been pursued simultaneously.

By all accounts, the supervision team often went beyond the call of duty-- going so far as to establish a
full-time presence in the offices of the B2000 Authority in order to facilitate responsiveness and quick
decision making. Often the team had to pitch in to support the Authority at its request, in areas where
they were weak or staff was overloaded. This responsiveness and close support was appreciated by the
Authority (see minutes of stakeholder workshop), and is evidenced by the outputs for the end of the
millennium and prior to the onset of the Intifada. In addition, when the crisis of the Intifada broke in
September 2000, the supervision team moved quickly to reallocate funds to emergency job creation in
response to PA requests. Further, they moved to scale back, consolidate, and reduce the scope of some
capacity building studies, while seeking to protect and pursue the key municipality and cultural heritage
capacity building subcomponents. Finally, in mid-2002 and upon the request of the PA, the team moved
to restructure the project, to reallocate most of the remaining uncommitted funds to damage repair.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. After an initial period of disarray, the PA
moved swiftly to establish the B2000 Authority, to give it a clear mandate, and to appoint very capable
leadership with ministerial status. The PA also established a high level Steering Committee comprised
of key implementing ministries and the ministries of planning and finance to oversee project preparation
and help ensure effective coordination during implementation. Because the Authority had a limited
lifespan, and because municipal development was one of the keys to project sustainability, the Ministry
of Local Government was given overall responsibility for project coordination during implementation, but
the key implementation tasks were assigned to the Authority. All PA agencies worked very closely with
the Bank preparation team in preparing the project. There is one caveat, however. This is with respect to
the inability of the Ministries of Tourism and Antiquities (MOTA) and of Culture (MOC), who shared
responsibility for cultural heritage preservation, to come together and develop a common approach. This
had repercussions during implementation--most of which were foreseen by the appraisal Bank team.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government implementation performance is deemed satisfactory, but not altogether unproblematic.
In general, the PA was highly supportive and met most of their project obligations effectively and on
time. In addition, as noted above, MOF handled the VAT refund issue very well.           However, problems
arose in three areas. First, Overall Coordination: Except at the outset, and later on through a Steering
Committee, Ministries were not greatly involved in the preparation. However, as noted above, MLG was
given overall coordinating responsibilities. This included responsibility for monitoring, accounting and
reporting. For the first three years of the project, MLG failed to perform effectively, seldom providing
timely or useful reports. The B2000 Authority filled the breech. In the final years, MLG managed to pull
itself together and to provide adequate accounts, but was still not able to provide useful reports or to give
much support to the municipal capacity building effort. Second, Coordination of Cultural Heritage
Preservation: For almost two years, MOTA and MOC could not agree on a joint approach. After much
prodding of both sides by the supervision team, MOC agreed to cede responsibility to MOTA; but even
then, MOTA proved slow in acting. Finally, with the approval of the PA and management, in mid-2001
the supervision team decided to switch responsibility to the B2000 Authority--then beginning to wind
down its activities but still more capable by far than the three participating ministries. Third, Establishing
the B2000 Fund: The PA failed to develop and implement the proposed B2000 Fund. Among the reasons
was the fact that from the very beginning, the PA's objectives for the Fund were not clearly specified, nor
were its governing and operating modalities. This, plus suspicions about its bona fides led to its early



                                                     - 12 -

demise. Fortunately, the success of the project was not predicated on the establishment or otherwise of
the Fund--by neither the Bank nor the Authority. However, success here would have been beneficial, as
it would have freed more Bank funds for the development and capacity building effort.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Performance of the Implementing Agency is highly satisfactory.            The new leadership of the B2000
Authority moved very quickly to take command, to develop organizational capacity, and to work closely
with the Bank in developing a strategy and a business plan.             It also moved quickly to recruit key
consultants, take charge of operations, begin implementation, and begin to coordinate donor activity. As
noted, the Authority succeeded in meeting the very tight December 2000 deadline--feat that few in the
Bethlehem community, Palestine, or the donor community expected of them. Of course, there were
some shortcomings, and we have alluded to them above: marketing, commercialization, community
relations, etc. However, a commercial bonanza was never expected, as it was clear from beginning that
the PA had moved too late. There was also a fear that commercialization would devalue the religious
significance of the event. Further, there was a strong desire to focus on authenticity as opposed to show
business, and this militated against the commercial efforts. Nevertheless, it was expected that the
Authority would at least cover its operating costs from fund-raising and commercial efforts. It did not.
However, against these shortcomings must be set the achievements in infrastructure rehabilitation,
cultural heritage preservation and rehabilitation and events. As a result, a huge fillip was given to
Palestine, and to the Palestinian tourist industry in particular. Beyond the celebrations, the Authority led
in establishing the cultural heritage preservation center in mid-2001, ensuring the preparation of the new
preservation law, and in providing excellent reports and keeping excellent accounts.               It was also
instrumental securing the consolidation of the responsibility for cultural heritage preservation under one
ministry, and in helping to mobilize the job creation efforts after September 2000. In the end, it even
earned the respect of the area municipalities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


On balance borrower performance is deemed satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Several lessons have been learned, of which the most important are the following:

      l    Risks of Tourism in an Unstable Area: However attractive a project, the risks must be carefully
           weighed both culturally and politically. As it turned out, the situation became far more unstable
           than anyone anticipated--at times bordering on catastrophic, overwhelming all available
           mitigation measures.
      l    Institutional Design and Capacity: If the institutional arrangements are carefully considered, if a
           clear and adequate mandate is given, if adequate supporting resources are provided, and if
           capable leadership is in place, Palestinian institutions are capable of delivering very
           effectively. B2000 Authority's success proves the point.
      l    Leadership:     This was in large measure the key B2000 Authority success. Such leadership
           certainly exists in Palestine, but is often not effectively harnessed to the task of nation building.
      l    Stakeholder Involvement: This is not easy to secure in Palestine, and was particularly difficult
           in Bethlehem area. Initially, all parties seemed suspicious of each other, and none thought the
           others were trustworthy, up to the job, or likely to deliver. This view persisted almost up to the
           `tenth hour'. Ironically, due partly to the experience of reoccupation, the parties are now more
           appreciative of each other's roles, capabilities and achievements. It is not clear that this
           coming together would have been achievable without such a stimulus.
      l    Mobilizing the Private Sector: Much more could probably have been achieved in the areas of
           marketing and sponsorship if the private sector had been more closely involved at an early
           stage of the project. Not surprisingly, the public sector orientation of the leadership of the
           B2000 Authority and the widespread and mutual lack of trust militated against this



                                                      - 13 -

           involvement. Clearly, a basis of trust has to be built before the benefits of private sector
           participation can be secured.
      l    Municipal Learning: The area municipalities have come a long way during the project. This is
           due to several factors: first the Authority showed the way in improving the infrastructure and
           staging the celebrations; second they were determined not to take (or be forced to take) a back
           seat in the development process and responded to the challenge;third they made the effort to
           take advantage of the (much reduced) capacity building opportunities offered under the
           project. They did so through the preparation of diagnostic studies, and through their
           participation in mobilizing and managing the damage repair and job creation program in their
           areas. Finally, it is desirable start the municipal capacity building effort earlier--all things
           being equal. This process takes time and requires much patience on the part of the client and
           the Bank
      l    Responsiveness and Close On-Ground Bank Supervision: Significant progress can be made
           even in a very difficult environment if adequate local leadership exists, and the Bank team is
           sensitive and responsive to the problems and takes quick and decisive action. This can occur
           most effectively when there is close on-ground Bank supervision and excellent relations with
           clients--as there generally is in WBG. Progress can be made even in an area such as cultural
           heritage preservation that is new for the Bank.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments were received on November 12, 2003 and attached in Annex 10. In summary, the Bethlehem
2000 Authority rates this project as highly successful due to the achievement of objectives and
accomplishments of key activities within a very short period of time. The Authority considers the Bank's
support, both technically and financially, came in timely for the preparation for the millennium
celebrations. This support also helped trigger and coordinate all donor activities and support. The
establishment of the Center for Cultural Heritage Preservation which aims to ensure preservation of the
cultural assets is one outcome that is sustainable for the future.


(b) Cofinanciers:

Letters from the Austrian Development Cooperation, Office of Italian Cooperation and Representative
Office of Norway were received in November 2003 and attached in Annex 10. In summary, all three
partners have expressed their satisfaction of the results of their contribution to the Project and the
professionalism of the World Bank team. They also expressed satisfaction of the team's approach during
implementation especially with regards to engaging their representatives in site visits/meetings and
discussions related to their components.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

A stakeholders' workshop was held on October 15, 2003 to evaluate the Project's objectives and
outcomes, lessons learned and how to improve the planning and implementation process for similar
projects in the future. The minutes of the workshop are attached at Annex 9. While there were a few
critical comments, the response of stakeholders was generally very positive. There was a consensus
that: the celebrations, infrastructure rehabilitation and job creation components were very successful; the
B2000 Authority did a very good job; the tourism development component was aborted by the arrival of
the Intifada; the capacity building components despite having to be scaled back because of the Intifada
had a significant impact.




                                                      - 14 -

              Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                             Summary of Achievement of Objectives and Outputs


Narrative Summary                Key Performance                       Target                      Actual           Comments
                                      Indicators
Project
Development
Objectives

1.            Strengthen the        Increased visitor arrival No of Visitors:          Not achieved. Visitors:     Low end target for 1999 met, but targets missed in
economic and cultural base and lengthening of stay.                                                                 2000 due to crisis. Industry disintegrates after that.
of the Bethlehem Area                                          1999:     0.7-0.8m; 2000:1999: 0.7m; 2000: 0. 8m;    Dramatic decline in visitors after 2000. Total number
Municipali-ties and foster                                     1.4-1.7m;           2001:2001: na; 2002: na          of visitors to Palestine as follows: 1999: 0.91m; 2000:
their sustainable                                              1.1-1.4m;       2002    :                            1.05m; 2001: 0.08m; 2002: na
devel-opment through                                           1.2-1.5m;           2003:

tourism promotion and                                          1.2-1.6m

product development.
                                    Number of visits to other Na                       Not achieved *              It was expected that this would begin in 2001-2 as
                             important sites besides Manger                                                         new venues brought on-stream and become known.
                             Square and Shepherds' Fields.                                                          Expectations dashed due to crisis.
                                    Number of additional      Na                       Partially achieved*         Accurate data not available for Bethlehem, but the
                             hotel rooms built by private                               Start was made. Examples:   evidence on the ground and the national data suggest
                             investors 2000-2010.                                       The new Jacir Palace        that the increase in Bethlehem was considerable.

                                                                                        (Intercontinental) and the  Number of hotels in Palestine hanged as follows:
                                                                                        Russian orthodox guest house1998:  91; 1999: 106; 2000: 106: 2001: 84: 2002: 72.

                                                                                        among others.               No. of rooms changed as follows: 1998: 3,682; 199:
                                                                                                                    3781; 2000: 4708: 2001: 2860: 2002: 3098. Thus
                                                                                                                    there was a considerable increase in hotels and rooms
                                                                                                                    between 1998 and 2000, and a significant decrease
                                                                                                                    thereafter. The Jerusalem area (including Bethlehem)
                                                                                                                    accounted for about 30% of hotels and 70% of rooms.
                                                                                                                    In June 2003, 40% of the total 124 hotels in Palestine
                                                                                                                    were closed. Given Bethlehem's prominence in the
                                                                                                                    industry, it seems clear that a considerable share of the
                                                                                                                    increase in hotels and rooms added during 1998-2000
                                                                                                                    were in this region, and probably a significant share of
                                                                                                                    the decrease as well.

2.            Strengthen the        Increased economic
infrastructural, financial                                     Na                       Not achieved *              No reliable expenditure data available, but hotels were
                             activity as measured by increased
and managerial base of                                                                                              reputedly fully booked as of mid-year 2000. Prospects
                             total and per capita expenditure.
these municipalities                                                                                                looked very good until crisis.

through a program of
investment, reform and
capacity build-ing, and
emergency job creation
relief in response to the
growing unemployment. (
Note: objective revised to
include emergency job
creation.)
                                    Improved infrastructure   Roads: 18km; Water:      Over achieved. Roads: 77km;Targets  way over-fulfilled, partly because of increased
                             services coverage and quality.    5.6km plus new 2500 m3 Water: 64km plus new 2500     attention to inner road and services maintenance, and

                                                               reservoir.               m3 reservoir; Storm-water:  partly to execution of damage repair program. Periods

                                                                                        7.7km                       and scope of water "lock-offs" considerably reduced

                                    Increased LG revenue      Na                       Not achieved *               Crisis mainly to blame. While reliable data are not
                             mobilization and cost recovery.                                                        currently available for all municipalities, it is known
                                                                                                                    from Bank damage impact studies that Bethlehem's
                                                                                                                    revenue in Q4, 2000 was less than 50% of Q4, 1999.
                                                                                                                    The area was particularly hard hit because of its
                                                                                                                    dependence on tourism.
                                    Increased private sector  Na                       Not achieved *. Significant Reliable data not available but increase evidenced by
                             investment in hotel                                                                    major private investments in hotels, tour bus terminal,




                                                                                   - 15 -

                                                                                         increase in 1999-2000.
                             accommodation, tour operations                                                            parking garage, and convention center. Also, several
                             and tourism facilities.                                                                   small scale private investments in additions of rooms
                                                                                                                       to accommodate visitors. Private sector demonstrated
                                                                                                                       willingness and capacity to respond.

                                   Person days of temporary Na                          Achieved *.                   Partly managed by the Authority and partly by the
                             employment created                                          About 38,000 person days of municipalities.
                                                                                         temporary employment
                                                                                         created.
Begin to foster the                Cultural Heritage policy Completion by end 2000. Partially Achieved, 2 yrs late. Old cores of Beit Jala and Beit Sahor rehabilitated
preservation of the very     and institutional framework     Number of historic                                        along with several other building in Bethlehem itself.
valuable cultural assets in developed - end 2000.            buildings identified,       Expected completion of new Some 20 private households have independently
Bethlehem and Palestine by                                   protected, rehabilitated andLaw by December 2003.         initiated rehabilitation. Significant progress made here,
initiating a national process                                reused annually.            Some 3-400 buildings          and new Center actively mobilizing community. Keen
of policy and institutional                                                              rehabilitate in old municipal donor interest and support, particularly from, Italy,
reform and capacity                                                                      cores. Responsibilities for   Austria, Spain, Greece, UK and several others.
building.                                                                                sector consolidated under
                                                                                         MOTA.
4.            Help to repair Km of infrastructure networksCompletion by end-JuneAchieved.                              Program limited by available funds.
and rehabilitate essential   and    number       of  building03.                         Some 32 roads, 5 schools, 9
infrastructure, services and successfully repaired.                                      public buildings and electrical
buildings damaged as a                                                                   networks repaired. Municipal
result of the crisis. (Note:                                                             equipment replaced.
New objective)




                                                                                    - 16 -

Narrative Summary               Key Performance                      Target                     Actual             Comments
                                      Indicators
Project Outputs by
Component

Celebrations
Support

            Support               Delivery of technical    Complete by end Dec.Fully achieved.                   Competent Authority established and up and running
provided to B2000 Project assistance and consulting services 1999                                                  by mid-1998, partly funded from another parallel
Authority for planning and for establishing institutional                                                          ongoing Bank project (MIDP-1). Support continued
managing celebrations.      programmatic, managerial and                                                           under this project
                            financial framework for
                            celebrations.
            World class           TV programs carried live Programs in December     Partially achieved           Very successful program mounted at Christmas 1999
global religious/ cultural  and prerecorded from Bethlehem 1999 & 2000, and Easters Done in 1999; abandoned in through Easter 2000. programs widely carried on
TV events staged by         by major international networks. through 2001.            2000 because of crisis.      international TV. Highlight the visit of the Pope in
Bethlehem on key                                                                                                   March 2000. Celebrations drew scores of other very
celebratory days during the                                                                                        high level visitors, including several presidents and
period December                                                                                                    heads of international organizations. Several countries
1999-Easter 2001.                                                                                                  send contribute to event by sending artists and
                                                                                                                   performers and jointly hosting "national weeks".

Infrastructure          and
Cultural         Heritage
Rehabilitation
Works

            Improved              Number of kilometers of Roads: 6; Water: 2 (ave.) Overachieved.                Target for roads considerably overachieved because
basic infrastructure and    road, water and sewerage                                  Roads: 26; Water: 2 (ave.)   some fund redirected to priority community needs
services.                   networks constructed annually.
                                   Roads: Km built.         Completions by end 1999, Overachieved.                Includes 2 of the 3 most important main, and several

                                                             2000.                                                 internal roads.

                                                                                      77 km rehabilitated.

                                   Water, # of additional   Service by end 1999 and  Achieved.
                            persons served end 1999, 2000.   2000.
                                                                                      improved service benefited
                                                                                      about 16,000 persons or 20
                                                                                      % of area population served.




                                   Number of additional     Na                       Achieved.                    About 16,000 persons benefited, or about 20% of
                            households benefiting annually                            Achieved. 5,000 per yr,      areas population.
                            from improved water and                                   average
                            sanitation services.
                                   Reduction in congestion Na                        Achieved.                    Improvements due to rehabilitation, better channeling,
                            on access roads to main tourist                           Approximately 50%            signage, parking and traffic management.
                            destinations (Manger Sq.,                                 reduction in Travel times.
                            Shepherd's Field, and others)
                            measured by travel times from
                            Jerusalem checkpoint
            Rehabilitated,        Number of historic       Na                       Fully achieved*.             Old cores of Beit Jala and Beit Sahor rehabilitated
renovated and adaptively    buildings identified, protected,                          Some 3-400 buildings         along with several other building in Bethlehem itself.
reused historical building  rehabilitated and reused                                  rehabilitate in old municipalSome 20 private households have independently
and sites.                  annually.                                                 cores.                       initiated rehabilitation. Significant progress made here,
                                                                                                                   and new Center actively mobilizing community. Keen
                                                                                                                   donor interest and support here, particularly from,
                                                                                                                   Italy, Austria, Spain, Greece, UK and several others.

Capacity         Building




                                                                                 - 17 -

Support

Bethlehem,              Area
Municipalities

             Strengthened          Installation of accrual   Completion by end 2000     Not achieved.                 Effort curtailed due to crisis. Being continued under
municipal accounting,        based computerized accounting                                                              MIDP-2. Some hardware purchased for Munis to run
finance, planning,           systems.                                                                                   system.
management and
maintenance systems.
                                    Preparation of 3 yr.      Completion by end 2000     Substantially achieved, but   Crisis delayed start and made completion of task
                             Municipal development plans by                               late. Completed in mid-2003 difficult.
                             end 2000.
                                    Development and           Completion by end 2000     Not achieved.                 Crisis made it impossible to do.
                             implementation of infrastructure
                             O&M performance standards and
                             programs by end 2000.
Cultural            Heritage
Preservation

             Dialogue              Publication of policy and Completion by end 2000     Partially achieved. Draft law Lack of consensus and capacity at MOTA and MOC
begun towards the            consolidation of institutional                               completed December 2003 resulted in major delay.             Task shifted to B2000
establishment of national    framework. New Cultural                                                                    Authority in mid-2000. Since then significant progress
cultural conservation policyHeritage institutional framework                                                            has been made. Scope of studies and deliberations
and institutional            established.                                                                               reduced. Completion of new law well advanced
framework.                                                                                                              Completion expected by end of yr 4. Responsibility
                                                                                                                        for sector consolidated under MOTA. Center for
                                                                                                                        Cultural    Heritage   Preservation    Established   in
                                                                                                                        Bethlehem, with support of UNECSO, Italy, UK and
                                                                                                                        others


Damage Repair
             Essential             Km of infrastructure      Completion by end - JuneAchieved.
infrastructure, services and networks and number of building 03.                          Some 32 roads, 5 schools, 9
buildings damaged because successfully repaired.                                          public buildings and electrical
of the crisis repaired.                                                                   networks repaired. Municipal
                                                                                          equipment replaced.
Project Monitoring and
Reporting

             Funds                 Annual disbursements.                                Partially achieved.           Disbursement lagged the target mainly because other
disbursed on schedule.                                         (FY): 1999 - $22.9m;                                     donors contributed more funds and earlier than
                                                               2000 - $1.8m; 2001 -                                     anticipated. Bank funds could thus refocused to serve
                                                               $0.3m. (Note: this has     1999: $15.9m: 2000: $6.1m;    core needs beyond the celebrations area, and also to
                                                               been revised upwards to    2001: $0.8m: 2002: $1.0m.     fulfill urgent maintenance needs.
                                                               reflect the SAR schedule.
                                                               The original targets appear
                                                               to have been an error.)

             Effective             Systems established       Na                         Fully Achieved.*              This was done very effectively, mainly by the
accounting, monitoring and                                                                                              Authority. MLG had overall responsibility but did not
reporting systems                                                                                                       perform effectively during first 3 years of project.
established
              Notes: (1) Baseline data do not exist for some indicators. (2) SAR table (Annex 1) reorganized to correspond more closely with stated objectives
              and outputs. (3) Where targets were not specifically stated in the SAR, the text of SAR was reviewed for targets. In this case also, the degree of
              achievement was assessed based the context, what was possible within the constraints. These items cases are marked by an "*".




                                                                                     - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million   US$ million
1. Celebration Support                                          6.00            5.20         86.67
2 a. Infrastructure and Cultural Heritage Rehabilitation       15.00          18.45            123
Works
2 b. Job Creation                                               0.00            1.50           150
2 c. Damage Repair.                                             0.00            2.20           220
3. Capacity Building Support                                    3.50            0.98            28
4. Overall Project Monitoring and Reporting Support             0.50            0.00             0

Total Baseline Cost                                            25.00          28.33
                          Total Project Costs                  25.00          28.33
                    Total Financing Required                   25.00          28.33


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                             5.50              9.00         0.50         0.00       15.00
                                    (5.50)            (9.00)      (0.50)         (0.00)    (15.00)
2. Goods                             0.70              0.30         0.31         0.00        1.31
                                    (0.70)            (0.30)      (0.31)         (0.00)     (1.31)
3. Services                          0.00              0.00         6.97         0.00        6.97
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (6.97)         (0.00)     (6.97)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00         1.72         0.00        1.72
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (1.72)         (0.00)     (1.72)
5.                                   0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6.                                   0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             6.20              9.30         9.50         0.00       25.00
                                    (6.20)            (9.30)      (9.50)         (0.00)    (25.00)




                                                   - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00              21.16              0.70                              21.86
                                           (0.00)            (17.71)            (0.70)              ()             (18.41)
    2. Goods                                0.00               0.48              0.22             0.00              0.70
                                           (0.00)             (0.48)            (0.22)            (0.00)           (0.70)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.00                               0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)              ()             (0.00)
    4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.50              3.02             0.00              3.52
                                           (0.00)             (0.50)            (3.02)            (0.00)           (3.52)
    5.                                      0.00               0.00              2.25             0.00              2.25
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.25)            (0.00)           (2.25)
    6.                                      0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00              22.14              6.19             0.00             28.33
                                           (0.00)            (18.69)            (6.19)            (0.00)           (24.88)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Celebration Support          6.00         0.00         0.00        5.20         0.00       0.00       86.7      0.0       0.0
2a. Infrastructure and         15.00         0.00         0.00       15.00         0.00       3.45       100.0     0.0       0.0
Cultural Heritage
Rehabilitation Works
2b. Job Creation                0.00         0.00         0.00        1.50         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
2c. Damage Repair               0.00         0.00         0.00        2.20         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
3. Capacity Building            3.50         0.00         0.00        0.98         0.00       0.00       28.0      0.0       0.0
Support
4. Overall Project              0.50         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Monitoring and Reporting
Support




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

At appraisal the opportunity cost of capital was estimated at 10-11 percent, and the ERR for the 66 percent of the
project which were deemed to be quantifiable was estimated to be greater than 14%. Sensitivity analyses yielded
ERR estimates ranging from a high of 22.8 percent and a low of 17.1 percent (see table below). The main
unquantifiables included the cultural heritage preservation and capacity building components for which no
estimates were provided. However, the latter were designed to support the main development objectives and were
widely believed to yield a highly positive rate of return. Thus the project as whole was deemed to be justified.

Sensitivity analyses conducted at appraisal indicated the infrastructure components were quite robust with respect
to assumptions, with roads being the more robust of the two subcomponents (see table).               The key factors
determining the results with respect to roads were assumptions about costs and traffic. In the case of water, the
driving factor was cost.   The most sensitive component was the B2000 Authority. Here the worst case scenario
yielded rates of return significantly below the estimated opportunity cost of capital, and the most sensitive factor
was assumptions about visitation and visitor spending. As the table indicates the quantifiable benefits (including
the new job creation and damage repair subcomponents) were some 20 percent higher than at appraisal. The road
component was much higher (44 vs. 32 percent); the water component lower (6 vs. 10 percent); and the Authority
component also lower (20 vs. 22 percent). We have no measures for the new components which comprised 15
percent of quantifiable cost and a high content of repairs and maintenance, but from other projects in Palestine and
elsewhere, these components are know to yield high ERRs, often exceeding 20 percent. Thus, all things being
equal, the project ERR would probably have been higher than that estimated at appraisal.

The problem, as noted above, is that all things were not equal. There was, and to some extent still is, a war.
Infrastructure was damaged, necessitating increased repair costs. For reasons given above, traffic was greatly
reduced. Similarly, water service revenues decreased. And visitation (and the resulting spend) was vastly below the
lowest predictions at appraisal. Reliable data are not available, but traffic on the main roads probably decreased by
as much as 60 percent for much of the period, water consumption and revenues fell by an as yet undetermined
amount and both have yet to return to pre-crisis levels. Visitation also fell sharply, by as much as 90 percent on
most counts. There is thus little doubt that on the basis of current trends the appraisal estimate will not be
achieved, and the project ERR will probably be far below the opportunity cost of capital.

       Component                                            Appraisal                                Actual

                                       Cost       Percent of     ERR Base       ERR Worse      Cost    Percent of
                                       ($m)        Costs (%)         (%)          Case (%)     ($m)     Costs (%)
        Project Total                 25.0           100            Na             na
        Project (quantifiable)        16.5            66           22.8            17.1       21.4        86
        B2000 Authority                6.0            24           14.5             8.3        5.2        20
        Roads                          8.0            32           28.6            23.6       11.1        44
        Water                          2.5            10           24.1            17.2        1.4         6
        Damage repair and job           -              -             -              -          3.7        15
       creation
Note: The last item includes rehabilitation and maintenance of infrastructure and services (water and electricity) as
well as buildings and a small element of office equipment




                                                         - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               January 1998
               May 1998

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               July 1998
               July 1998

 Supervision

               12/14/1999                 2   LEAD URBAN                            S               S
                                              PLANNER/TTL(1); PROJECT
                                              OFFICER (1)
               11/25/2000                 2   LEAD URBAN PLANNER/TTL                S               S
                                              (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
               06/10/2001                 2   LEAD URBAN PLANNER/TTL                S               S
                                              (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1);
               02/21/03                   1   OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               2/17/2003                  2   OPERATIONS OFFICER (TTL);
                                              CONSULTANT
               10/30/03                   2   OPERATIONS ANALYST (2);
               5/15/03                    2   OPERATION OFFICER (TTL);
                                              CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
               10/15/03                  5     OPERATION
                                               OFFICER/TTL (1);
                                               CONSLUTANT/URBAN
                                               PLANNER (1);
                                               CONSULTANT/
                                               PROCUREMENT (1);
                                               PROGRAM
                                               ASSISTANT(1);
                                               OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                               (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               N/A
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    N/A                           413.0
  Supervision                              N/A                           193.0
  ICR                                      N/A                             20.0
  Total                                    N/A                           626.0



                                               - 22 -

NOTES:
       Reports in SAP/BW do not provide breakdown between Identification/Preparation and
Appraisal/Negotiations.
      Actual/Latest Estimate in US$ is in direct costs (BB). Lending and supervision costs exclude Trust
Funds of $309,000 and $12,000 respectively.




                                                 - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Project Appraisal Document, August 28, 1998
 2.  Mid-Term Review - June 5, 2000
 3.  Monthly Quarterly Progress Reports, B2000 Authority
 4.  Damage Assessment Report, Donor Support Group, Italian Development Cooperation Draft 3,
     May 2002
 5.  Fifteen Months of Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis - An Assessment, March
     2002
 6.  Palestinian Tourism in Numbers 123. Update 2002
 7.  Palestinian Central Bureau of statistics - Press Release for the Hotel Survey 2000
 8.  Palestinian Central Bureau of statistics - Press Release for the Hotel Survey, Second Quarter 2003
 9.  Completion Evaluation Report- Capacity Building: Support to Bethlehem Area Municipality,
     October 2003
 10. Audit Report, May 7, 2002.
 11. Rehabilitation of Al-Anatra Quarter, Package II: Renovation of Facades, Final Progress Report,
     August 2003
 12. Brief report by B2000 Project Authority dated October 18, 2002, Contribution to MIDP-ICR.
 13. West Bank and Gaza, Fiscal Crisis and Physical damages to Infrastructure, Emergency
     Reallocation and proposed amendments to Trust Fund Credit Agreements, August 6, 2002.




                                                 - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Project Co-Financing

The project attracted US$3.45m equivalent in direct cofinancing from Italy, Norway and Austria to
finance projects from the High Priority Projects identified by the Bank during appraisal (see Project
Appraisal Document Annex 2(b) Table 1. B). In addition US$0.76m equivalent was provided by Greece
through a parallel Bank Project (MIDP-1).          This note briefly summarizes the outputs from these
contributions.

Italy
During the Special Participants Conference, held in Brussels Belgium on May 11-12, 1998, that was
sponsored by the PA on Bethlehem 2000 project, Italy has agreed to provide a grant of US$2.5m. This
grant would be used to finance infrastructure rehabilitation and cultural heritage preservation and
capacity building in support for the Bethlehem 2000 Celebrations.

A. Infrastructure rehabilitation, this includes the rehabilitation of 8.3km of roads as follows:
1.      Solomon Pools-Artas Access Road: The project included upgrading of access road and
        shoulders extending from the intersection located on the Jerusalem Hebron Road, through
        Solomon Pools area and Artas back to Bethlehem city. The works also included construction of
        bus parking for tourists, construction of retaining walls, storm water, water network and street
        lighting. The total length of this road is 5.4 km.
        It is worth mentioning that the Solomon Pools area, three pools and an ancient castle, are of
        Cultural Heritage and Historic value. These pools date back to Herodion and Ottoman times. It
        was used to collect water from near by springs to be transported to Jerusalem through stone
        carved conduits and the Castle was used for the protection of the pools. The project also
        financed the preservation of the ancient conduit that was exposed at several locations. The work
        included fencing of the area and provision of signs with literature on the history of the conduit.
        The project financed the rehabilitation of the access road leading to Artas village and Monastery.
        The village is an agricultural village, depending mainly of spring water, while the Monastery
        dates back to early last century.
2.      Jamal Abdel Nasser Road: This is a 10 meter right-of-way road, leading from Solomon Pools
        area to connect to Jerusalem Hebron road an another location. The total length of this section is
        0.80 km.
3.      Paul VI Street: This is a main road connecting the Jerusalem Hebron road to Al Madbasseh
        square, a commercial center of Bethlehem city. The total length of this section is 0.70 km.
4.      Al-Mawardeh and Al Atfal Street: These roads extend from the Jerusalem Hebron road to the
        Manger road that leads to the Nativity square. The total length of these roads is 0.900 km.
5.      The University Road: This road passes by the Bethlehem University and the water reservoir
        and connects to Al Atfal Street, upgraded by the project. The total length of this road is 0.50 km.

B. Capacity Building and Support for Cultural Heritage Preservation:
Italy provided US$0.50m equivalent for the Development of Cultural Heritage Conservation Mater Plan
for the Bethlehem Area and for institutionalizing of the process. This component will be implemented by
the Center foe Cultural Heritage Preservation in Cooperation with UNESCO. The Bank has transferred
the funds to UNESCO to commence with implementation.

Project outputs: The total length of roads rehabilitated under the project is 8.3 km. The project has
improved the deteriorated condition of these roads. In addition, this network has relieved traffic jams
when the main roads leading to the Nativity were closed during the celebration. Rehabilitation of these
roads has improved surface conditions, surface drainage, and safety for both cars and pedestrians,
reduced vehicle traveling and operating costs and has improved access for the visitors to this area of
cultural heritage and historic value. The project encouraged another donor and the private sector to
invest in the area. France has constructed public gardens for visiting families. The private sector has
constructed a multi million dollar Conference Center. It includes conference halls, shops and traditional
arts and crafts village.




                                                     - 27 -

Norway
Norway provided US$1.0m equivalent for the rehabilitation of the Shepherds Fields Access Roads
(6.0km). The work consisted of two parts:
1.       Upgrading of the access roads leading to the Shepherds fields by widening the asphalt surface,
         installing water lines, improving street lighting constructing sidewalks where possible,
         landscaping, street signage and construction of parking for tourist buses. The total length of this
         part is 3.0km.
2.       Upgrading other roads connecting the access roads to the main road in Beit Sahour and the road
         connecting Beit Sahour to Za'atara. A near by village. Work included widening of the asphalt
         surface, installing water lines, improving street lighting and constructing sidewalks. The total
         length of this part is 3.0km.

Project outputs: The most important output of this project is the improved access for visiting tourists to
the Shepherds Fields which are important religious sites. Outputs also include improved surface
conditions, improved safety for cars and pedestrians.

Austria
Austria provided US$0.70m for the rehabilitation works of phase III of Old Core Beit Jala. The work
included cleaning of the facades of the old building, re-pointing of the facades, rehabilitation and
repainting of the doors, windows and balconies, landscape, asphalt works, sidewalks, and rehabilitation
of services, including dismantling of electricity and telephone lines to be placed under the asphalt layer.

Projects outputs: The rehabilitated area was saved from further deterioration and the general feature
of the Old Core was very much improved. This has prolonged the life of the old building by at least
twenty years. Local consulting firms, local contractors and local workers have acquired good experience
in terms of rehabilitation of old building with CH value. The project has encouraged several families to
rehabilitate and reuse their deserted homes

Greece
Greece has provided US$0.76m equivalent for the rehabilitation of the Milk Grotto Road, a road of very
significant importance being adjacent to the Nativity church and leading to the Milk Grotto, where the
Holy Family resided for some time. The project included the rehabilitation of the road, removing and
installing services, electricity and telephone lines under ground, sidewalks and landscaping.

Project outputs: Improved access for visitors to these two important religious sites and cultural heritage
preservation.




                                                     - 28 -

Additional Annex 9. Minutes of Stakeholder Workshop

Introduction
The B2000 project stakeholder's workshop was held at the Bethlehem Peace Center on Wednesday,
October 15, 2003 to evaluate the Project's objectives and outcomes, lessons learned and how to
improve the planning and implementation process for similar projects in the future. It was attended by
Bethlehem 2000 Authority Staff, Bethlehem Area Municipality Mayors and City Engineers, Head of the
Utilities in Bethlehem, private sector, Donors and International organizations, and community leaders
who benefited from the project.

H.E. Dr. N. Kassis, Minister and Coordinator for the Bethlehem 2000 project, opened the workshop and
gave a short introduction, highlighting the history of the project and the role of the World Bank in
developing the Project. Dr. Kassis briefed the participants on the project's achievements and outputs. He
emphasized the significant role played by B2000 staff, municipalities and local communities in project
implementation and in particular during the crisis. He also appreciated the cooperation between the Bank
and the implementing agency and hoped for continued cooperation in the future.

Mr. I. Dajani introduced the World Bank team and expressed his appreciation for the strong cooperation
with the B2000 Authority and the municipalities' teams. He also mentioned that the outcomes of this
workshop will be incorporated in the Implementation Completion Report. He highlighted the rationale for
holding such a workshop and requested participant feedback on the project outcomes as well as lessons
learnt to be incorporated in the design of future projects.

Project Overview and Components
A short presentation on the project objectives and achievements was made by Dr. K. Daibes, who
highlighted that their vision was to prepare a unique celebration of an exceptional religious event that will
positively affect all Palestinians and would contribute to the process of nation building by inviting the
world to join. She also indicated their short term objectives which are to prepare the city for the
millennium celebration and in long term to bequeath a legacy of sustainable tourism development and
foster role of public bodies. Dr. Daibes also gave a briefing on the credit and the allocation categories
with the numbers of project implemented in Bethlehem district.

The Celebration Support Component: The celebrations were successfully launched on December 4,
1999, and was planned to continue till April 2001. Several Church Choir Groups had participated in the
Celebration. It had attracted many visitors and had promoted private sector investment in the tourism
sector. Several hotels and tourist attractions were constructed in Bethlehem city, number of tour
operators had increased, tour guides had doubled, and the number of tour buses had been increased.

Dr. N. Kassis expressed the view that the events management, which primarily undertaken by local
specialists, had been a significant learning experience which proved the availability and readiness of
local specialists to take on such complex task and deliver a world class product. Resources had been
efficiently used, but the current events seemed to be only a pale reflection of the past program.

Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Cultural Heritage Preservation Works Component: Mr. Awwad
presented the main objective of this component and Mr. I. Nassar of B2000 Authority and Mr. J. Murkus
of Bethlehem Municipality presented the outputs of the physical component of the project. This included
statements with the regards to the secondary benefits which the local firms and individuals have gained
in terms of knowledge and experience through participating in projects supervision and implementation

Cultural Heritage Reservation Component: Dr. S. Toukan gave a brief overview of the initial
preparatory work, i.e., work undertaken prior to project appraisal. This consisted of an Emergency Action
Plan which was prepared by UNESCO and financed by Italy. The resulted plan was very flexible and
responsive to the emergency needs of the Bethlehem communities. It also involved a community
consultation process that, for example, resulted in the rehabilitation of the Market Place in Bethlehem.




                                                    - 29 -

Mr. B. Khoury confirmed that the achievements of the project, and said that such success proved the
local capacity to perform and deliver a world class product. He thought that more emphasis ought to
have been placed on the local population's needs and the need to improve their quality of life first, and
then cater for the tourists. Further, in his opinion, the local engineering and consulting have gained
tremendously from the work performed in Bethlehem, especially with respect to cultural heritage
preservation.

Mr. W. Al-Sharif presented the background of the Cultural Heritage Capacity Building component and
outputs. He also outlined the progress achieved on the drafting of the Cultural Heritage Preservation
Legislation which is expected to be completed by end November 2003. The draft will then be presented
to the Legislative Council for review, comments and ratification.

Capacity Building Component for Bethlehem Area Municipalities (BAM): Mr. Awwad gave a brief
description of the objectives of the local level capacity building component. This included the Diagnostic
studies and Three-Year Investment Plans which were prepared by the Project for the Bethlehem
municipalities with assistance from reputable consulting firm. A joint project list had been identified by
the Bethlehem Area Municipalities whish sets out priorities and forms the nucleus for future working
together.
Mr. Murkus confirmed the Project's success in the following:
    l   Making the BAM more aware for their potentials for development:
    l   Identifying area for improvement in Municipal Management
    l   Identifying income generating development project; and
    l   Improving knowledge in project preparation and planning.

Private Sector Participation; Mr. H. Abu Dayyeh, from Net Tours  one of the largest tourist bus
companies in Jerusalem, mentioned that the Project did not succeed in attracting the tourist numbers
projected for, however it sent a global message of the good news. It also enhanced the market value of
Bethlehem worldwide. However, he was not sure if the outcome had triggered the tourists to spend more
money or stay longer in Bethlehem. He further confirmed that the Project helped create opportunities to
develop new hotels and new tourism related businesses and industries. Hotel rooms have tripled and
investment generated income to local industries. Though the projected number of tourists was not
achieved, during the millennium celebrations, hotels in Bethlehem and Jerusalem were 100% booked.
Tourist bus companies increased to 17. Tourists were directed and housed in Hebron and Ramallah.
Both Tour operators and tour guides have doubled their operations as well. Licensing of Tour Guides
quadrupled (from 75 to 300) in preparation for the celebrations and all of them were fully committed. He
also mentioned that the Project brought all stakeholders to work together under limited budget and under
very limited time frame. He was convinced of the Bank's important leadership and role in helping to
attract and coordinate donors' efforts in the preparation for the Millennium. The historical experience was
in the Bethlehem 2000 Authorities' efforts to bring all stakeholders including the churches to work under
one umbrella and manage the Project with very little budget.




                                                    - 30 -

Workshop Discussion

The Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program: Comments from participants included:
        l    The project main objectives were achieved in terms of benefits to the population as a priority
             and improved their lives; investment was increased despite the obstacles and constraints;
             the Project proved to be successful in addressing the community needs in terms of
             infrastructure improvement of the area; local contractors were employed and materials were
             either locally produced or supplied and therefore benefited during the Project
             implementation. .The limited time available encouraged the mobility of more contractors to
             speed up implementation and therefore employing more workers.

The following additional concerns were raised:
        l    The need to implement projects in the reuse of wastewater and to expand existing water
             networks; develop capacity building programs, with emphasis on operations and
             maintenance; and raise more funding to complete other priority projects (i.e. soccer field)

Donor/International Organization Contribution:           Mr. Mattar, from the Italian Cooperation Office,
mentioned that the Intifada did not allow Bethlehem to gain the fruits of the project. Major projects were
implemented such as Artas road which linked Artas with the world. He also mentioned the effective
supervision role from the Bank's team during the implementation of the subprojects ensured the
achievements of the set out objectives.

Mr. G. Fontene, from UNESCO, emphasized the need to look at the future while using the current
experience to work toward the implementation of an integrated plan of the city. He stressed that strategic
planning approach would be the most suitable to proceed ahead.

Ms. S. Breivik, from the Norwegian Representative Office, mentioned that during the millennium
celebrations the project bridged the gap and relation between the local Palestinian communities and the
outside world. The Norwegian week in particular, part of the Celebrations, has strengthened the
friendship between the people of Palestine and Norway.

Mayors of Bethlehem Area Municipalities (BAM) Contribution: The Project proved to be successful
in addressing the community needs for improvement of long deteriorated infrastructure. They hoped that
realized products will continue to serve the people's needs. It also helped create jobs to the many
unemployed. Furthermore, it built capacity at the municipal staff in preparation and management of
similar projects.

The Three-Year Investment plan has identified priority investment projects which will be the responsibility
the BAM to implement. The mayors emphasized the need for financial support to the following joint
projects: the establishment of a joint service council for the BAM, the construction of a solid waste landfill
and modern slaughter house, and the need to expanding the wastewater network.

PLC Representative's Contribution: Mr. Al-Ta'mari mentioned that the Project contributed to the
creation of jobs especially during the crisis and period of strict closures. This helped maintaining
residents from leaving the country. He also emphasized the need to be careful when rehabilitating
historical places and not to lose the historical image and the traditional practice which is required to
preserve and maintain. He sited the rehabilitation of the Jacaman Olive Mill project (not financed by the
Bank).
Mr. Daoud highlighted the jobs created during the implementation period and wished for a more regional
coverage of the interventions. He also highlighted that the Project contributed to attracting the major
investments taking place in Artas area.

Lesson Learned: The following were highlighted:
l   There is a need to focus on operations and maintenance of the completed infrastructure and




                                                   - 31 -

   centralize the implementing agency (is it B2000? LGU's , PA etc....)
l  There is a need for close consultation with the community, this should improve local ownership of the
   outputs and work towards safeguarding them;
l  Rural communities incorporation in future projects would be advisable;
l  With a committed and capable implementing agency and staff, it is possible to achieve the targets
   despite the political challenges and the time constraints.

Conclusion
A dominating factor was the severely negative impact of the Israeli military actions after September
2000. This made it impossible to fully realize the potential of the project. However, within this major
constraint, the participants concluded that:
1)      The objectives of the celebration support had been largely achieved, and had the political
        environment continued to progress towards Peace the outcome would have been largely
        achieved;
2)      The objectives for the physical component had been successfully achieved, but the benefits
        have been significantly reduced by Israeli military actions, including the occupation of Manger
        Square and the considerable damage it infrastructure and cultural assets;
3)      The objectives of cultural heritage preservation subcomponents had been partially achieved,
        especially with the completion of draft legislation to preserve Palestine's very valuable heritage;
4)      The local reform subcomponents had been also partially achieved.




                                                   - 32 -

List of Participants:

From the Palestinian Authority:
H. E. Dr. N. Kassis, Minister and Coordinator General B2000 Authority
Mr. W. Sharif, Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
Mr. K. Hemeid, Ministry of Local Government
Mr. N. Sacca, General Director, Ministry of Local Government
Mr. A. Dwaik, Ministry of Public Works
From the Participating Municipalities (Bethlehem Area Municipalities)
Mr. H. Nasser, Mayor, Bethlehem Municipality
Mr. R. Zeidan, Mayor, Beit Jala Municipality
Mr. A. Ma'ali, Mayor, Doha Municipality
Mr. A Ghneim, Mayor, Al-Khader Municipality
Mr. J. Mukus, City Engineer, Bethlehem Municipality
Mr. N. Hadweh, City Engineer, Beit Jala Municipality
Eng. E. Qumsyeh, City Engineer, Beit Sahour Municipality
Mr. E. Ibrahim, Engineer, Beit Sahour Municipality
Mr. Y. Al-Azzeh, City Engineer, Al Khader Municipality
From the Bethlehem 2000 Project  Project Implementation Unit
Dr. K. Daibes, Director, CCHP, Bethlehem 2000 Project
Mr. I. Nassar, CCHP, Bethlehem 2000 Project
Mr. D. Nour, CCHP, Bethlehem 2000 Project
Ms. F. Fararjeh. CCHP, Bethlehem 2000 Project
Ms. C. Nour, CCHP, Bethlehem 2000 Project
Ms. E. Lindower, CCHP, Bethlehem 2000 Project
From the Service Providers Sector
Mr. N. El Hadweh, Director, Jerusalem Electricity District Company, Bethlehem
Mr. M. Al-Sha'ar, Water Authority
From the Palestinian legislative Council:
Mr. B. Daoud, member representing Bethlehem
Mr. S. Al-Ta'mari, member representing Bethlehem
From the Private Sector:
Dr. S. Toukan, Welfare Association
Mr. H. Abu Dayyeh, NET Tours, Jerusalem
Mr. B. Khoury, Architect and Planner, Bethlehem
Mr. M. Naser, Director, Bethlehem Peace Center
From the Donor Community and the International Organization:
Mr. F. Antanell, UNESCO
Mr. I. Mattar, Italian Cooperation Office, Jerusalem
Mr. M. Cjmadevilla, Spanish Cooperation
Mr. N.Bordallo, Spanish Cooperation
Ms. S. Marie Breivik, Norwegian Representative Office, Jerusalem
From the World Bank:
Mr. I. Dajani, Task Team Leader
Mr. K. Robotham
Mr. G. Awwad
Ms. F. Antar




                                                   - 33 -

Additional Annex 10. Partners Comments




                                      - 34 -

- 35 -

- 36 -

- 37 -

- 38 -

Additional Annex 11. Footnotes



1.      ERP-1 and 2; FY94 and 96 respectively, and MIDP-1, US$40m, FY. See project ICRs,
respectively dated June 25, 1999, December 22, 1999, and [December 2004].

2.      The impact of events since the beginning of the Intifada has been documented in two World
Bank publications: "Fifteen Month - Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis", March 2002;
and "Two years of Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis", February, 14, 2003.

3.      The celebrations support and infrastructure objectives had been fully achieved so they do not
figure here.

4.      Please note that in the SAR some indicators did not have specific numeric or qualitative targets.
In these cases, the text of the ICR was reviewed for the content of the target. In addition, the views of
the supervision team, the borrower and stakeholders were sought. The cases are indicated by "." In
Annex 1.

5.      In order to minimize repetition, details are not given for already achieved or for the downgraded
objectives. A similar approach is taken with respect to revised outputs in Section 4.2 below with. The
achievements of the revised objectives stated in Section 4.1 are confirmed by the revised outputs
summarized in Section 4.2 below. All are further summarized in Annex 1.




                                                   - 39 -

- 40 -

