Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3880-VN 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Vietnam Water Resources Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 19, 2004
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3880-VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 19, 2004, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
VIETNAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, 
title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any 
other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) 
access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) 
business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; and an 
“Affected Person” means any of such Affected Persons. 
(b) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
“Electricity of Vietnam” and “EVN” mean the entity established by 
Decision No. 562/TTg of the Prime Minister of the Borrower, dated October 10, 1994, 
and operating under the EVN Charter issued under Government Decree 14/CP, dated 
Page  3
-
2
-
January 27, 1995, responsible for developing, operating and maintaining, directly or 
indirectly, facilities for the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in 
Vietnam, and any successor thereto.   
(d) 
“Environment Management Plan” and “EMP” mean the plan dated 
November 2003, adopted by the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Development, and referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, which sets 
out the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as 
such plan may be revised from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(e) 
“Ethnic Minorities Policy Framework” means the framework dated 
August 2003, adopted by the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development 
through the Minister’s Decision No. 164/QD/BNN-TL dated 20 January 2004, referred to 
in paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, which sets out policies and procedures 
to ensure meaningful consultation with and the informed participation of ethnic 
minorities communities residing within the Project area, and principles for the 
preparation of ethnic minorities development plan or plans, as may be required, during 
the implementation of the Project, as said Framework may be revised from time to time 
with the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(g) 
“Irrigation Management Companies” and “IMCs” mean state-owned 
enterprises established by and operating under the authority of the Provincial People’s 
Committees, or of MARD, as the case may be, and responsible for operating and 
maintaining headworks, main irrigation and drainage canals and water supply control 
works within their respective design command areas; and an “Irrigation Management 
Company” and an “IMC” mean any of said Companies. 
(h) 
“MARD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Development, and any successor thereto. 
(i) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor 
thereto. 
(j) 
“MONRE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Natural Resources and 
Environment, and any successor thereto. 
(k) 
“MPI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Investment, and 
any successor thereto. 
(l) 
“Participatory Irrigation Management” means the involvement of water 
users, through various means and in various degrees, in the planning, construction and/or 
Page  4
-
3
-
operation and maintenance of irrigation systems, and in the determination of irrigation 
services to be provided.   
(m) 
“PMO” means the Project Management Office to be established under 
the Central Project Office within the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Development in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.  
(n) 
“Project Provinces” means the Borrower’s Provinces of Bac Giang, Ha 
Tinh, Khanh Hoa, Quang Nam, Quang Ninh and Tay Ninh, and Ho Chi Minh City, and 
any successors thereto; and a “Project Province” means any of said Provinces and City. 
(o) 
“Project Management Units” and “PMUs” mean, collectively, the units 
to be established by the Project Provinces to manage the implementation of Project 
activities within said Provinces, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(d) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and a “Project Management Unit” and “PMU” mean any 
of said Units. 
(p) 
“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively: (i) the Resettlement 
Action Plan  in respect of the Dau Tieng irrigation scheme; (ii) the Resettlement Action 
Plan  in respect of the Cau Son-Cam Son irrigation scheme; (iii) the Resettlement Action 
Plan  in respect of the Phu Ninh irrigation scheme; (iv) the Resettlement Action Plan  in 
respect of the Ke Go irrigation scheme; (v) the Resettlement Action Plan  in respect of 
the Yen Lap irrigation scheme; (vi) the Resettlement Action Plan  in respect of the Da 
Ban irrigation scheme; and (vii) the Resettlement Action Plan  in respect of Part C.1 of 
the Project; in each case dated November 2003, adopted by the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Development through the Minister’s Decision No. 171/QD/BNN-
TL dated 20 January 2004, and referred to in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said Plans may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence 
of the Association; and a “Resettlement Action Plan” means any of said Plans. 
(q) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Policy Framework for 
Resettlement and Land Acquisition, dated November 2003, approved by the Borrower 
through the Prime Minister’s Decision No. 96/CP-NN dated 13 January 2004, and 
adopted by the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development through the 
Minister’s Decision No. 165/QD/BNN-TL dated 20 January 2004, and referred to in 
paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, which sets out the policies and procedures 
for land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Affected Persons, 
and for the preparation of additional resettlement action plans, as may be required, during 
the implementation of the Project, as said Policy Framework may be revised from time to 
time with the prior concurrence of the Association.   
(r) 
“SBV” means the State Bank of Vietnam, the Borrower’s central bank, 
and any successor thereto. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(s) 
“Sub-implementation Offices” and “SIOs” mean, collectively, units 
within the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and any successor 
thereto, responsible for managing the implementation of more complex dam safety works 
and of inter-provincial water management works, and more specifically those units 
denominated SIO 416, SIO 414, SIO 403 and SIO 408 responsible for, respectively, the 
headworks and main canals of the Dau Tieng irrigation scheme; of the headworks for the 
Da Ban irrigation scheme; of the headworks and siphons of the Yen Lap irrigation 
scheme; and of the Quang Hue River flow stabilization works under Part C.1 of the 
Project; and a “Sub-implementation Office” and “SIO” mean any of said units. 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.  
(u) 
“Steering Committee” means the high-level committee to be established 
by the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(v) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower, through MOF, and Electricity of Vietnam pursuant to Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, referred to in paragraph 16 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
(w) 
“Water users groups” means groups of individuals and/or households 
benefiting from specific irrigation schemes under Part A of the Project and whose 
participation in irrigation management will be supported under said Part of the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred and five million seven hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR105,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account for the purposes of Parts A, B.1, C and E of the Project (the Special Account), in 
a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
Page  6
-
5
-
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
5
to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2011 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2014 and ending February 15, 2044. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2024 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Page  7
-
6
-
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) carry out 
Parts A, B.1, C, D and E of the Project through MARD and the Project Provinces; and (ii) 
cause EVN to carry out Part B.2 of the Project; all with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering   
practices, and sound social and environmental standards acceptable to the Association; 
Page  8
-
7
-
and shall provide, and cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out, and cause to be carried out, the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
For purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall make 
available to EVN part of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
Categories (2)(b) and (3)(b), under a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the 
Association. 
 Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants
’
services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 (ii) 
ena
ble the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 25 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement the Borrower shall 
prepare, and cause to be prepared, and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
The Borrower has: (i) established a Project Management Office for Parts 
A, B.1, C, D and E of the Project, and appointed thereto a Project director, a Project 
financial manager, two staff accountants, and two procurement specialists, all in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(ii) appointed a Project accountant and a procurement specialist for each of SIO 416, SIO 
414, SIO 403 and SIO 408, all in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(c) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
Each Project Province has established its respective Project Management 
Unit, and appointed thereto a project accountant and a procurement specialist, all in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(d) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
The Borrower has adopted a project implementation plan acceptable to 
the Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;  
(d) 
The Borrower has: (i) adopted a financial management manual; (ii) 
established a financial management system; and (iii) completed training for staff of the 
PMO, PMUs and the SIOs on financial management; all in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and 
(e) 
The Borrower has adopted a procurement manual acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
Page  11
-
10
-
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that: (i) the Resettlement Policy 
Framework has been duly approve
d
by
the Borrower’s Prime Minister; (ii) the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, the Resettlement Action Plans and the Ethnic Minorities 
Policy Framework have all been duly adopted by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural 
Development; and are legally binding on the Borrower in accordance with their 
respective terms.  
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of 
Vietnam is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
State Bank of Vietnam 
 
49
Ly Thai To 
 
Hanoi 
 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
 
 412248 
  (84-4) 
825 
0612 
 
Hanoi 
  NHTWVT 
   
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 (1-202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
or 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam as of the day and year first above written.
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By 
/s/ Le Duc Thuy 
 
Authorized Representative
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
Klaus 
Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
)
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Works for all Parts of the 
Project other than  Part B.2 
 
84,120,000 
 
95% 
(2) Goods: 
 
(a) for all Parts of the 
 
Project other than  Part 
 
B.2 
 
(b) for Part B.2 of the 
 
Project  
 
8,510,000 
 
740,000
 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 75% of 
local expenditures for other 
items procured locally 
(3) Consultants’ Services 
 
(a) for all Parts of the  
 
Project other than Part B.2 
 
(b) for Part B.2 of the 
 
Project                  
 
9,780,000 
 
70,000 
 
100% for expenditures for 
services of individuals 
domiciled outside the territory 
of the Borrower, and 93% for 
expenditures for all other 
consultants’ services for all 
other consultants  
 
(4) Training and workshops 
for all Parts of the Project 
other than Part B.2 
 
1,140,000 
 
100% 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Category
(5) Incremental Operating 
Costs for all Parts of the 
Project other than Part B.2  
 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
)
1,340,000 
 
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
70% 
 
TOTAL: 
__________ 
 
105,700,000   
 
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of 
incremental expenditures incurred by the Borrower in the management of all Parts of the 
Project other than Part B.2 (which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the 
Project), including travel costs, travel per diem, office consumables, communication 
expenses, but excluding salaries. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: 
(a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $800,000 equivalent, may be made in respect of 
Categories 3 and 4 on account of payments made for  expenditures before that date, but 
after February 1, 2004; and 
(b) 
in respect of Categories 2 (b) and 3 (b) until the Association shall have 
received evidence satisfactory to it that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to the 
Association has been entered into between the Borrower and EVN in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 16 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and that said Agreement is 
valid, legally binding on the parties thereto and enforceable in accordance with its terms.  
Page  15
-
14
-
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: 
(a) 
works costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; 
(b) 
goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; 
(c) 
consultants’ services with (i) firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract; and (ii) individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract; 
(d) 
training and workshops; and 
(e) incremental 
operating 
costs; 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to modernize and increase 
the productivity of Vietnamese agriculture, improve the management of water resources 
and reduce dam safety risks through: (i) the modernization of irrigation services in 
selected irrigation schemes within the Project Provinces; (ii) improvement of dam safety 
and management; and (iii) integrated development and management of the Thu Bon 
River Basin in Quang Nam Province. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Irrigation Modernization
Carry out a program to upgrade and modernize the infrastructure and 
management of the irrigation schemes of: (i) Dau Tieng in Tay Ninh Province and Ho 
Chi Minh City; (ii) Cau Son 
–
Cam Son in Bac Giang Province; (iii) Phu Ninh in Quang 
Nam Province; (iv) Ke Go in Ha Tinh Province; (v) Yen Lap in Quang Ninh Province; 
and (vi) Da Ban in Khanh Hoa Province; said program consisting of: 
1. 
 Upgrade the hydraulic infrastructure of said irrigation schemes through the 
installation of water control and flow measurement structures, renovation of degraded 
canals and development of lower-level canal systems. 
2. 
Improve the management of said irrigation schemes through: (a) the development 
and implementation by the Provincial irrigation management companies of 
comprehensive plans for the operation, maintenance and financial management of said  
schemes; and (b) fostering of water users groups to participate in irrigation management 
and improve the efficiency of irrigation water use. 
3. 
Carry out remedial works to improve the safety of the dams which constitute the 
headworks of said irrigation schemes. 
Part B
:
Dam Safety Management
1. 
(a) 
Carry out remedial works to improve the safety of selected small- and 
medium-sized dams; and 
 
(b) 
Strengthen the management capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture and 
Rural Development in respect of MARD-related dams, through the establishment of a 
 
dam safety unit to supervise safety inspections, develop and enforce the regulatory 
framework for dam construction and management, support the capacity building of dam 
owners, operators and inspectors, and disseminate information on dams in Vietnam. 
Page  17
-
16
-
2. 
Upgrade the dam safety instrumentation at the Hoa Binh dam in Hoa Binh 
Province. 
Part C
:
Thu Bon River Basin Development
1. 
Construct the river control works at the intersection of the Vu Gia and Quang 
Hue rivers in Quang Nam Province;  
2. 
Carry out planning and feasibility studies for priority investments identified in 
the Thu Bon River Basin Master Plan covering Quang Nam Province and the 
Municipality of Da Nang. 
Part D
:
Resettlement
Carry out the resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons under the 
Project. 
Part E
:
Project Management Support and Capacity Building
1. 
Strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development 
and the Provincial authorities of the Project Provinces in the areas of irrigation 
modernization, dam safety, environmental management, construction supervision, project 
implementation and resettlement. 
2. 
Build and strengthen the institutions responsible for the management of  
hydraulic infrastructure at the local levels in the Project Provinces, including the 
respective irrigation management companies, the Provincial Departments of Agriculture 
and Rural Development and the water users groups and associations; and support the 
further development of participatory irrigation management. 
3. 
Support the implementation of the Project, including audit of Project accounts.      
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2011. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, 
namely: 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to 
be carried out by domestic contractors. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a)  
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $115,600,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to 
cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under 
this Paragraph 1, Part C, shall be those set forth in Decree No. 88/1999/ND-CP dated 
September 1, 1999, of the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as amended 
and supplemented by Decree No. 14/2000/ND-CP dated May 5, 2000 and Decree No. 
66/2003/ND-CP dated June 12, 2003 (Decree No. 88/1999/ND-CP, Decree No. 
14/2000/ND-CP and Decree No. 66/2003/ND-CP, together “the Regulations”), with the 
Page  19
-
18
-
clarifications set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 3 required to comply with the 
provisions of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures or, in the event such goods are 
readily available from more than one domestic supplier at competitive prices, on the basis 
of national shopping procedures, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works on very small canals at the secondary and tertiary levels, estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$11,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded 
on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or  more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  20
-
19
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services in respect of dam safety may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for training in irrigation modernization and participatory irrigation 
management may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  21
-
20
-
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Dependent State-Owned Enterprises
Notwithstanding the provisions of clause (ii) of the Annex to this Schedule 3, 
services of engineering companies dependent on the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Development and engineering companies dependent on the Project Provinces may be 
procured under sub-contracts under the Project, provided that (i) the value of a sub-
contract with a MARD-dependent engineering company does not exceed fifty percent 
(50%) of the total value of the relevant contract, and (ii) the value of a sub-contract with a 
Project Province-dependent engineering company does not exceed twenty percent (20%) 
of the total value of  the relevant contract. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
Page  22
-
21
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Annex to Schedule 3 
 
National Competitive Bidding 
 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provision of Section I of the Guidelines, the procedures normally used for public 
procurement in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam shall be modified in accordance with 
the following provisions: 
Participation in bidding and preferences
(i) 
For clarification purposes, it is understood that the last sentence of the 
amended Paragraph (c), Section 2,  Article 2 of Decree 88/ND-CP which states that  "All 
the procedures for submission, appraisal and approval of bidding results and bidder 
selection results shall follow the Procurement Regulation" means "Approvals of draft 
bidding documents, bid evaluation reports and proposals for award shall be obtained in 
accordance with the relevant 
rules and procedures of the Procurement Regulation”. 
(ii) 
Government-owned enterprises in Vietnam shall be eligible to participate 
in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower or the 
procuring entity. Military or security units, or enterprises which belong to the Ministry of 
Defense or the Ministry of Public Security shall not be permitted to bid. 
(iii) 
Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same 
conditions as local bidders, and local bidders shall be given no preference (either in the 
bidding process or in bid evaluation) over foreign bidders, nor shall bidders located in the 
same province or city as the procuring entity be given any such preference over bidders 
located outside that city or province. 
(iv) 
Bidders shall be allowed to participate in bidding without being listed in 
the Government Database on Bidder Information. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required, in order to participate in bidding, 
to enter into a joint venture with a local bidder, or to subcontract part of their contract to a 
local bidder. 
(vi) 
If there is prequalification, 
all
 prequalified bidders shall be invited to bid. 
Page  24
-
23
-
(vii) 
If there is limited bidding because there are only a limited number of 
bidders who can meet the requirements of the bidding documents, 
all 
of these bidders 
shall be invited to bid. 
(viii) 
Bidders shall not be required, as a condition of participation in the 
bidding,
 to provide suppliers’ credits. 
Advertising; time for bid preparation
(ix) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national newspaper. In addition, the Borrower is encouraged to advertise in the 
Government Public Procurement Bulletin when established and on a free and open access 
website. 
Standard Bidding Documents
(x) 
The Borrower’s standard bidding documents shall be acceptable to the 
Bank.  The bidding documents shall provide clear instructions on how bids should be 
submitted, how prices should be offered, and the place and time for submission of bids.   
A
minimum of 30 days for the preparation and submission of bids shall be provided. 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by hand or by mail. 
Qualification criteria and evaluation criteria
(xi) 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents
,
and
 all criteria so specified, and 
only
 criteria so specified, shall be used to determine 
whether a bidder is qualified. Qualifications of a bidder found to meet the specified 
qualification criteria shall not be taken into account in the evaluation of such bidder’s bid. 
(xii) 
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, 
and evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms. 
All
 
evaluation criteria so specified, and 
only
 evaluation criteria so specified, shall be taken 
into account in bid evaluation. Merit points shall not be used in bid evaluation.  
Bid evaluation and award of contract
(xiii) 
Bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be returned to 
the bidders unopened. 
(xiv) 
A bid containing material deviations from, or reservations to, the terms, 
conditions or specifications of the bidding documents shall be rejected as not 
substantially responsive. A bidder shall not be permitted to withdraw material deviations 
or reservations once bids have been opened. 
Page  25
-
24
-
(xv) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
specified in the bidding documents, and contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder 
offering the lowest evaluated and responsive bid.  
(xvi) 
A bidder shall not be required, as a condition for award, to undertake 
obligations not specified in the bidding documents, or otherwise to modify the bid as 
originally submitted. 
(xvii) 
There shall be no post-bidding negotiations with the lowest or any other 
bidder”. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
Project Management 
1. 
For purposes of Parts A, B.1, C, D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
through MARD: 
 
(a) 
by no later than December 31, 2004 establish and, throughout the period 
of Project implementation, maintain a Steering Committee to be chaired by a vice 
minister of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and with representation 
from the Ministry of Planning and Investment, Ministry of Finance, State Bank of 
Vietnam, and from the People’s Committee of each Project Province, assigned with such 
powers, responsibilities and resources as shall be necessary to provide overall guidance 
and support in the implementation of the Project; 
 
(b) 
establish and, throughout the period of Project implementation, maintain 
a
Project Management Office under MARD’s Central Project Office, under the direction 
of qualified and experienced managers and staffed with competent personnel in sufficient 
numbers, including, inter alia, a Project director, a Project financial manager, two staff 
accountants, two procurement specialists, environment and social specialists and 
irrigation and dam safety experts, all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association, and provided with adequate resources, to be responsible for the overall 
management of Project activities under said Parts of the Project, including monitoring 
and evaluation, financial management, budgeting, procurement planning, and for review 
and approval of work plans prepared by the Project Management Units and the Sub-
implementation Offices, all under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(c) 
throughout the period of Project implementation, maintain the Sub-
implementation Offices SIO 416, SIO 414, SIO 403 and SIO 408, under the direction of 
qualified and experienced managers and staffed with competent personnel in sufficient 
numbers, including, inter alia, a Project accountant and a procurement specialist with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, and provided with adequate 
resources, to be responsible for managing, respectively, the implementation of works on 
the headworks and main canals of the Dau Tieng irrigation scheme, the headworks of the 
Da Ban irrigation scheme, the headworks and siphons of the Yen Lap irrigation scheme, 
and works under Part C.1 of the Project, all under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(d) 
cause each Project Province to establish and, throughout the period of 
implementation of its respective part of the Project, maintain its respective Project 
Management Unit, under the direction of qualified and experienced managers and staffed 
with competent personnel in sufficient numbers including, inter alia, a Project accountant, 
a
procurement specialist and an environment and social specialist, all with qualifications 
Page  27
-
26
-
and experience acceptable to the Association, and provided with adequate resources, to 
be responsible for the management of Project activities within said Project Province, all 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
2. 
Throughout the period of implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain the Irrigation Modernization Task Force, with membership acceptable to the 
Association, and assigned with such powers, responsibilities and resources as shall be 
necessary to provide technical and policy guidance on a national program of irrigation 
and dam safety modernization. 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MARD: 
(a) 
(i) prepare and put into effect a Project implementation plan acceptable 
to the Association setting forth in detail the organizational structure, schedule of activities 
for the Project including a procurement plan, and incorporating therein the Financial 
Management Manual and Procurement Manual referred to in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) 
of this paragraph 3; (ii) provide to the Association for its prior concurrence any revision 
proposed to be introduced to said plan, and thereafter introduce such revision into said 
plan as shall have been agreed with the Association; 
(b) 
establish and, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, 
maintain a financial management system satisfactory to the Association.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall, through MARD: (i) prepare and adopt a Financial Management Manual 
acceptable to the Association, setting forth the guidelines and procedures for financial 
planning, budgeting, control, records and reporting; (ii) establish a computerized 
accounting system satisfactory to the Association, at the PMO, the PMUs and the SIOs; 
and (iii) provide training to the financial management staff of the PMO, the PMUs and 
the SIOs on the application of the provisions of said Financial Management Manual, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association; and 
(c) 
(i) adopt and, throughout the period of implementation of the Project put 
into effect, a Procurement Manual satisfactory to the Association and consistent with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement to guide MARD, the PMO and SIOs, and the 
Departments of Agriculture and Rural Development and PMUs of the Project Provinces; 
and (ii) provide training to procurement staff of said ministry, departments and entities 
with training in the application of said Manual, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.  
 
 
Project Implementation 
Environmental Management 
4. 
The Borrower shall, through MARD: 
Page  28
-
27
-
(a) 
carry out, and cause to be carried out, the Environmental Management 
Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association and designed to ensure that the Project is 
implemented in accordance with sound environmental standards and practices; 
 
(b) 
provide to the Association for its prior approval any revision proposed to 
be introduced into said Plan in order to achieve its objectives, and thereafter introduce  
such revision into said Plan as shall have been agreed with the Association; and 
(c) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the implementation 
of said Plan and the achievement of its objectives.  
5. 
The Borrower shall, through MARD, cause each Project Province, prior to 
undertaking any work on its respective irrigation scheme to:  
 
(a) 
obtain from the relevant authorities all necessary approval for the 
environmental impact assessment for said irrigation scheme; and 
 
(b) 
provide to the Association for its prior review and concurrence any 
proposed modification to said environmental impact assessment. 
6. 
In carrying out the successive phases of upgrading and modernization of the 
irrigation schemes under Part A of the Project and the selection of dams to be upgraded 
under Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, through MARD: 
(a) 
undertake, and cause the respective Project Provinces to undertake, an 
environmental screening process satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
as may be required following such screening process, prepare an 
environmental management plan or plans, as the case may be, in regard to said later 
phase of works and provide said plan or plans to the Association for its prior review; and 
(c) 
thereafter implement in a manner satisfactory to the Association, such 
environmental management plan or plans, as the case may be, as shall have been agreed 
with the Association. 
7. 
The Borrower shall, through MARD, cause each Project Province, in regard to 
the operation of its respective irrigation scheme, to: 
(a) 
by no later than June 30, 2006, prepare and provide to the Association 
for its review and comment an environmental management plan in respect of the indirect 
impacts from irrigation scheme operation, which analyzes among other issues and as may 
be appropriate, those related to: (i) the design of a water quality monitoring program; (ii) 
aquaculture; (iii) municipal and industrial pollution control; and (iv) reservoir watershed 
management; and develop proposals for addressing problems identified; and  
Page  29
-
28
-
(b) 
implement such environmental management plan giving due 
consideration to the views of the Association thereon. 
8. 
The Borrower shall, through MARD, cause each Project Province to: 
 
(a) 
by no later than June 30, 2006, complete an assessment of the Integrated 
Pest Management program under implementation within said Province; and 
 
(b) 
provide to the Association for its review and comment the report of such 
assessment.    
 Involuntary 
Resettlement
9. 
The Borrower shall, through MARD: 
 
(a) 
carry, and cause to be carried out, the Resettlement Action Plans in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
provide to the Association for its prior approval any revision proposed to 
be introduced into any of said Plans in order to achieve its objectives, and thereafter 
introduce into said Plan such revision as shall have been agreed with the Association; and  
 
(c) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the implementation 
of said Plans and the achievement of their objectives.  
10. 
In carrying out the successive phases of upgrading and modernization of the 
irrigation schemes under Part A of the Project and the selection of dams to be upgraded 
under Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, through MARD: 
(a) 
take, and cause to be taken, all necessary actions to minimize to the 
extent possible any involuntary relocation of persons, or their loss of shelter, of assets or 
access to assets, or loss of income sources or means of livelihood, temporarily or 
permanently; 
 
(b) 
in the event that works under those Parts of the Project give rise to 
Affected Persons, prior to commencing such works, prepare, and cause to be prepared, a 
resettlement action plan or plans, satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the 
policies and procedures set forth in the Resettlement Policy Framework, and thereafter 
implement said resettlement action plan or plans as so approved by the Association;  
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association for its prior approval any revisions proposed to 
be introduced into any said resettlement action plan or into the Resettlement Policy 
Framework in order to achieve their respective objective, and thereafter introduce into 
said plan or Framework, as the case may be, such revision as shall have been agreed with 
the Association; and 
Page  30
-
29
-
(d) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the implementation 
of said plans and Framework, and the achievement of their objectives. 
Ethnic Minorities
11. 
The Borrower shall, through MARD: 
 
(a) 
implement, and cause to be implemented, the Ethnic Minorities Policy 
Framework in a manner satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
wherever required pursuant to the provisions of said Framework, prepare 
and implement an ethnic minorities development plan satisfactory to the Association and 
designed to: (i) provide for full consultation with and the informed participation of ethnic 
minorities communities within the Project area in the design and implementation of the 
relevant Part of the Project; and (ii) ensure that measures designed and implemented 
under the relevant Part of the Project adequately address the needs, cultural practices and 
preferences of such communities;  
(c) 
furnish to the Association for its prior approval any revision proposed to 
be introduced to said Framework or to any said development plan in order to achieve 
their objectives, and thereafter introduce into said Framework or said development plan, 
such revision as shall have been agreed with the Association; and 
(d) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the implementation 
of said Framework and plans, and the achievement of their objectives. 
Dam Safety
12. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
by no later than December 31, 2005, establish within the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Development, a dam safety unit under the direction of qualified 
and experienced management and staffed with competent personnel; said unit to be 
responsible for: (i) establishing a system of dam inspections, including formulation and 
implementation of regulations, procedures and standards for dam construction and 
management to ensure dam safety; (ii) supervising dam safety inspections; (iii) 
establishing standards for and building the capacity of dam owners, operators and 
inspectors; and (iv) establishing and maintaining a database and dissemination of 
information on dams in Vietnam; all in respect of dams under MARD’s jurisdiction; and  
(v) by no later than June 30, 2007, formulate and submit to the Borrower, 
recommendations regarding the development and establishment of a national dam safety 
coordination mechanism to ensure consistency among the various agencies responsible 
for dam safety; and 
Page  31
-
30
-
(b) 
by no later than December 31, 2007, provide to the Association for its 
review and comment, a time-bound action plan for the establishment of a national dam 
safety coordination mechanism on the basis of such recommendations, and thereafter put 
into effect such action plan giving due consideration to the Assoc
iation’s view thereon. 
13.  
To ensure the safety of the dams to be upgraded and modernized under Parts A 
and B.1 of the Project and the adequacy of the remedial works to be carried under said 
Parts of the Project, the Borrower shall, through MARD: 
(a) 
include under Part B.1(a) of the Project only those dams selected with 
the concurrence of the Association;  
(b) 
prepare, and cause to be prepared, detailed plans for: (i) construction 
supervision and quality assurance, (ii) instrumentation, (iii) operation and maintenance; 
and (iv) emergency preparedness; and 
(c) 
provide such plans to the Association for its review and comments, and 
thereafter, implement such plans as shall have been agreed with the Association, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association.  
14. 
The Borrower shall, by no later than December 31, 2004, through MARD, 
appoint a panel of qualified and independent dam specialists with expertise in various 
technical fields, and under terms of reference and with resources satisfactory to the 
Association; said panel to:  
(a) 
(i) review and advise the Borrower on matters relative to dam safety and 
other critical aspects of the dams selected for upgrading under Parts A and B of the 
Project, their appurtenant structures, the catchment areas, the areas surrounding the 
reservoirs and downstream areas; (ii) review and evaluate the technical design and 
construction procedures of the remedial and modernization works and associated works; 
and (iii) review and evaluate instrumentation plans, operation and maintenance plans, 
emergency preparedness plans, and plans for periodic safety inspection of said dams 
following completion of the remedial and modernization works; and 
(b) 
advise the Borrower on its national dam safety program as may be 
required from time to time. 
Tender Documents 
15. 
By no later than December 31, 2004 and prior to initiating any civil works under 
the Project, the Borrower shall, through MARD, complete tender documents for works to 
be commenced during the first year of Project implementation, satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Page  32
-
31
-
Subsidiary Loan to EVN
16. 
For purposes of Part B.2 of the Project and Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall, through MOF, enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with EVN, 
acceptable to the Association, which shall include, unless otherwise agreed by the 
Association, the following terms and conditions: 
 
(a) 
(i) the Borrower shall make available to EVN a principal amount, in 
United States Dollars (determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the 
Credit Account) equivalent to the amounts allocated from time to time to Categories 2(b) 
and 3(b)in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (ii) EVN shall repay 
said principal amount, in United States Dollars, over a period of fifteen (15) years 
including a grace period of three (3) years commencing on the date of effectiveness of 
this Agreement; (iii) EVN shall pay a commitment charge on such principal amount not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to the rate set forth in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement; and (iv) EVN shall pay interest on the principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to two-thirds (2/3) of the commercial 
interest reference rate (CIRR) announced by the Organization for Economic Cooperation 
and Development (OECD) as in effect on the date of execution of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, plus a service charge at a rate of one-fourth of one percent (1/4 of 1%).  
(b) 
EVN shall undertake to carry out Part B.2 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate management, financial, 
engineering and public utility practices and social and environmental standards  
acceptable to the Association, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and 
other resources required for the purpose. 
(c) 
EVN shall undertake to procure the goods and consultants' services for 
Part B.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods and 
consultants' services exclusively in the carrying out of said Part of the Project.  
(d) 
EVN shall undertake to enable the Borrower and the Association to 
inspect the sites and goods included in Part B.2 of the Project, the operation thereof, and 
any relevant records and documents. 
(e) 
EVN shall undertake to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
(f) 
EVN shall undertake to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound management, financial and public utility practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Page  33
-
32
-
(g) 
EVN shall undertake at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, including any dams, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance 
with sound engineering, financial and public utility practices. 
(h) 
EVN shall undertake to maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Part B.2 of the Project.  
(i) 
EVN shall undertake to:  
 
(A) 
have the financial statements referred to in sub-paragraph (h) 
above for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(B) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (xx) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in clause (A) of this sub-
paragraph (i) for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (yy) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(C) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time 
to time reasonably request. 
(j) 
EVN shall undertake to: 
(A) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association the carrying out 
of Part B.2 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;  
(B) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower 
and the Association, quarterly reports integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
clause (A) of this sub-paragraph (j) on the progress achieved in 
Page  34
-
33
-
the carrying out of Part B.2 of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of each such report; and 
 
(C) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time 
to time reasonably request. 
17. 
The Borrower shall, through MOF: (a) exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement with EVN in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit; and (b) except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive its Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement with EVN or any provision thereof. 
Other Implementation Covenants
18. 
The Borrower shall, through the Project Provinces and, in respect of the Dau 
Tieng irrigation scheme, through MARD, cause the Irrigation Management Companies of 
said Provinces and of MARD to: 
(a) 
prepare and, by no later than December 31, 2006, provide to the 
Association for its review and comments, IMC management plans, each said plan setting 
forth: the organization structure of the respective IMC; procedures and guidelines for the 
administration, operation and maintenance of the irrigation system under the jurisdiction 
of said IMC; the financial management of said IMC and said irrigation system; an action 
plan and schedule for the gradual increase in irrigation service fees collection coverage 
over the respective design command area; principles and procedures for participatory 
irrigation management; and monitoring and evaluation plans;  
(b) 
implement such management plans as shall have been agreed with the 
Association,  in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and 
(c) 
from time to time review with MARD and the Association the 
implementation of said management plans and put into effect any revisions thereto as 
may be necessary and as may be agreed with MARD and the Association, to achieve the 
objectives of said management plans.  
19. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, through MARD, cause the Project Provinces from 
time to time to: (i) at the request of MARD and the Association, review with MARD and 
the Association, the financial status of their respective IMCs; (ii) take all necessary 
actions to enable said IMCs to meet the costs of operation and maintenance as established 
in their respective management plans; and (iii) take all necessary actions to enable said 
IMCs to implement their management plans in a manner satisfactory to the Association.   
Page  35
-
34
-
(b) 
In respect of the Dau Tieng irrigation scheme, the Borrower shall, 
through MARD, from time to time: (i) at the request of the Association, review with the 
Association the financial status of the Dau Tieng IMC under MARD’s jurisdiction; (ii) 
take all necessary actions to enable said IMC to meet the costs of operation and 
maintenance as established in its management plan; and (iii) take all necessary actions to 
enable said IMC to implement its management plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.   
20. 
The Borrower shall, by no later than June 30, 2006, establish and thereafter 
maintain, a Thu Bon Basin Coordination Committee, with representation from MARD, 
Quang Nam Province, the City of Da Nang and MONRE, with such powers, functions 
and resources as shall be necessary to support basin-wide flood management, water 
allocation, and planning and management of water resources infrastructure, and to be 
responsible for guiding and reviewing the feasibility studies prepared under Part C.2 of 
the Project.  
21. 
By no later than December 31 of each year, commencing in 2004, the Borrower 
shall, through MARD: 
 
(a) 
prepare a detailed rolling two-year plan, acceptable to the Association, 
for training and capacity building during the next succeeding two calendar years, in 
particular in regard to participatory irrigation management, in respect of Parts A and B.1 
of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
thereafter, implement each such plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.  
22. 
By no later than March 31, 2005, the Borrower shall, through MARD, engage 
and deploy a technical assistance team or teams with expertise in irrigation engineering 
and management, participatory irrigation management, dam safety, construction, 
procurement, environmental and social safeguards, with qualifications and experience 
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.  
23. 
The Borrower shall cause each Project Province, as a condition to its 
participation in the Project, by no later than December 31, 2004, to enter into a 
memorandum of understanding with the Borrower, through MOF, acceptable to the 
Association; said memorandum of understanding setting forth among other matters: (i) 
the authorization, and the terms and conditions, for said Project Province to use the 
proceeds of the Credit for the modernization and improvement of any part of its 
respective irrigation schemes, including canals serving areas of less than 150 hectares 
each, included in the Project Feasibility Study, provided that the Project Provinces shall 
be responsible for at least twenty percent of the costs for such works; (ii) the undertaking 
of said Project Province to procure goods, works and services for its respective part of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and to utilize such goods, works and services 
Page  36
-
35
-
exclusively in the carrying out of its respective part of the Project; (iii) the undertaking of 
said Project Province to implement its respective part of the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, with due diligence, efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering practices and sound 
environmental and social standards acceptable to the Borrower and to the Association, 
and to provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for its respective part of the Project.   
24. 
Promptly upon completion of the works on the Cat Hai  water transfer facilities, 
the Borrower shall, through MARD, cause SIO 403 to transfer the ownership and 
associated responsibility for the operation and maintenance of said facility to the Hai 
Phong Water Supply Company. 
Monitoring and Reporting  
25. 
The Borrower shall, through MARD: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, (i) on or about March 1, and September 1 of each year, 
commencing September 1, 2004, a semi-annual report, and (ii) on or about September 1, 
2006 and September 1, 2008, a comprehensive report, in each case integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of 
this paragraph 25, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of each such report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
promptly review with the Association, each report referred to in sub-
paragraph (b) of this paragraph 25, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said
 report and the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
Page  37
-
36
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2)(a), (3)(a), (4) 
and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account allocated to Categories (1), (2)(a), (3)(a), (4) and (5) plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for all Parts of the Project other than Part B.2, 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR35,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
Page  38
-
37
-
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to all Parts of the Project other than Part B.2, shall be equivalent 
to twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
Page  39
-
38
-
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
