                                                                    ICRR 14273
                                                           Report Number : ICRR14273


IEG           ICR Review
            Independent Evaluation Group




     1. Project Data:                      Date Posted : 12/09/2013

         Country : Vietnam
        Project ID : P065898                                   Appraisal        Actual
     Project Name : Vietnam Water                        US$M ):
                                  Project Costs (US$M):                 176.2       177.84
                 Resources
                 Assistance
 L/C Number :          C3880                Loan/       US$M):
                                   Loan /Credit (US$M):                157.8       159.44
    Sector Board :     Agriculture and Rural     Cofinancing (US$M):
                                            US$M ):
                 Development
      Cofinanciers :                     Board Approval Date :                     03/30/2004
                                          Closing Date :        12/31/2011     12/31/2012
      Sector (s):    Irrigation and drainage (80%); Flood protection (10%); Water supply (5%); Central
                  government administration (3%); Other social services (2%)
      Theme (s):       Water resource management (33% - P); Other rural development (33% - P); Rural
services
                  and infrastructure (17% - S); Participation and civic engagement (17% - S)

Prepared by :          Reviewed by :    ICR Review               Group :
                              Coordinator :
Keith Robert A. Oblitas Ridley Nelson       Soniya Carvalho           IEGPS1

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

To assist the borrower to modernize and increase the productivity of Vietnamese agriculture, improve
the management of water resources and reduce dam safety risks through : (i ( i) the modernization of
irrigation services in selected irrigation schemes within the Project Provinces; ii ) improvement of dam
                                                         (ii)
safety and management; and (iii ) integrated development and management of the Thu Bon River Basin
in Quang Nam Province .

Source: Development Credit Agreement. (The DCA and PAD versions of the project's objectives are
similar in substance but the DCA version is more precise .)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?

No

c. Components:

1. Irrigation Modernization (Expected costs at appraisal (base costs without contingencies), US$154.7
million. (Costs by component at project completion are not provided in the ICR; only costs by financing
category.)
Upgrading and modernizing the infrastructure of six of the largest dams in Vietnam, improving the safety
of their dams, and strengthen their management structure and operation and maintenance capabilities
through training and implementation of comprehensive management plans .
  2. Dam Safety Management . (Expected costs at appraisal (base costs without contingencies), US$10.2
million (Costs at completion not available.)
Improving dam safety and management through the establishment of a Dam Safety Unit in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development; implement remedial safety works in at least three more Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development-affiliated dams other than those included under Component 1; and
improve the Hoa Binh dam safety instrumentation system under Electricity Vietnam .

3. Thu Bon Basin Development
(Expected costs at appraisal (base costs without contingencies), US$2.6 million. (Costs at completion not
available.)
Investment in Quang Hue River Flow Stabilization works and development of pre -investment studies for
priority projects identified in the Thu Bon River Basin Master Plan .

4. Project Management and Capacity Building
(Expected costs at appraisal (base costs without contingencies), US$8.7 million. (Costs at completion not
available.)
Providing technical assistance for project management; conducting training programs; and supporting
incremental operating costs for the project management offices at national, regional and provincial levels

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

There were no changes in the project’s Objectives; although the following changes to a monitorable
indicator and the Credit were made: First, on March 4, 2010 (a) the indicator on the establishment of a
River Coordination Committee was dropped due to a dispute between he Ministries of Agriculture and
Rural Development and of Natural Resources and Environment; (b) a minor reallocation of the Credit
between financing categories was made; and (c) the purchase of vehicles under the project was granted.
And second, on December 22, 2011, the Credit closing date was extended by one year – from December
31, 2011 to December 31, 2012.

Project costs estimated at appraisal were US$176.2 million and were US$177.84 million at project
completion. Project costs at completion by component are not provided in the ICR, although costs by
financing source are. (The task team has advised IEG that such costs are being sought after from the
borrower). The IDA Credit of SDR 105.7 million (US$157.8 million equivalent) was fully disbursed. IDA
provided 90 percent of the project’s financing, Government’s US$18.4 million contribution making up the
balance 10 percent. There was no cofinancer.
The project period (approval on March 30, 2004 to the extended (by one year) closure date of December
31, 2012) was 8 ¾ years. Effectiveness was 9 months after approval.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

The project supports development strategy for the Socialist Republic of Vietnam as enunciated in the
most
recent strategy documents of both the Bank and the Government. The Bank's Country Partnership
Strategy for Vietnam for FY12-FY16 (November 7, 2011) builds on the country's dual strategy of growth
and poverty reduction emphasizing improving competitiveness, governance, resource management and
social equity. Government's Social-Economic Development Strategy: 2011 - 2020 includes modernization
and improved effectiveness and sustainability of agriculture, in order to increase agricultural production
and exports, and to improve rural living standards, especially of the poor . Agriculture is a key sector in
Vietnam, accounting for 22 percent of GDP, 30 percent of exports and 60 percent of employment.
Improved irrigation infrastructure could both significantly enhance productivity and, for farmers at the
tail-ends of irrigation schemes, typically amongst the poorest, provide them with water and the source for
improved livelihoods. Competition for water for the urban and industrial sectors is growing, putting a
further premium on the need to enhance the productivity of water's largest user - agriculture - and to
better
manage water between sectors. But basin based integrated water resources management is still in its
infancy in Vietnam. And the productivity of water for agriculture is low . Dam safety is a necessary
concern,
  recognized in Government's 2001-2010 Social-Economic Development Strategy, but which did not have
an institutional framework for monitoring and actions .

Thus, all three of the project's objectives were strategically important, and the Relevance of the Project's
                 High .
Objectives is assessed High.

b. Relevance of Design:

The matrix and monitorable indicators in the project's results framework (PAD, Annex 2) represented a
logical sequence of cause and effect in the case of the objective to improve dam safety : dam safety
works,
inspection reports, dam safety instrumentation, and establishment of a dam safety unit could be expected
to reduce dam safety risks. Likewise, project actions would make a start improving water resources
management. The project's design was less clear in how it would support the objective to modernize and
increase the productivity of Vietnam agriculture . The only indicator to measure increased agricultural
productivity was increases in irrigated area, and there were no plans to ramp up agricultural extension
and
research to accompany the irrigation improvements . From Bank experience, agricultural productivity can
be significantly enhanced if water management improvements are accompanied by better agricultural
practices.

The project's complexity also raises a question . As materialized during project implementation, handling
the myriad activities targeted at appraisal proved difficult . In effect the project could be considered as two
broad thrusts: irrigation and agricultural improvement (if an agricultural intensification sub -component
was
added) as one; and water resources management and dam safety as another. These require different
skill
sets and different geographic and time horizons, and the procurement and other intensive actions
involved
with the irrigation component would not run the risk of diverting attention from the more "software"
oriented
water resources management. On the other hand, by including water resource management and dam
safety in the project, in view of the pressing need to also introduce these areas, their inclusion in the
project might be argued as justified, even if this implied a larger implementation challenge . But two
separate projects would seem to have been the better option.

On the basis of the lack of an agricultural component to augment the productivity of agriculture by more
than from irrigation modernization alone, the project's Relevance of Design is assessed Modest .

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Modernizing and increasing the productivity of Vietnamese agriculture
(through the modernization of irrigation services in selected irrigation schemes within the Project
Provinces)

This was to be achieved through rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation infrastructure, coupled with
improvements in management of six irrigation systems (representing about 5 percent of the command
area of Vietnam's 75 irrigation schemes). In terms of the monitorable indicator established at appraisal to
reflect productivity, project actions achieved the target : The average "collection area" (the actually
irrigated area of each scheme) increased from 50 percent to 81 percent of total command area,
compared
with a targeted 75 percent. In turn, this impacted significantly on agricultural productivity . Annual crop
production increased by 31 percent for paddy, 41 percent for maize, 52 percent for soybean, and 94
percent for vegetables.

However, much of the increase was due to the increase in effectively irrigated area (rehabilitation) rather
than to the impact from modernization. While training related to irrigation modernization exceeded targets
(1,189 persons trained as compared with 125 persons targeted at appraisal), a number of the intended
modernization actions - for instance, irrigation modernization guidelines, operations and maintenance
manuals, scheme level management plans, computerized real time water control systems, and guidelines
for irrigation performance bench-marking - were only completed in the last year of the project. Further, on
some schemes, modernization infrastructure was not used to its full potential for water control . A more
productive irrigation system was the main purpose of modernizing rather than rehabilitating . As
expressed
  in the ICR (page 11): "while the project completed a first phase of the modernization process, it did not
achieve all the modernization goals set out in the PAD ." And, "The heavy management workload of the
project, the delayed start, and consequent pressure to complete the construction, led to reduced attention
to non-structural modernization measures." (Component 1 of the project involved 295 construction
contracts.)

In short, the project's achievement at its completion, while it did increase the agricultural productivity of
the six schemes, fell short of its modernization intentions and the potential agricultural productivity
increases that the modernization measures could have provided . As such, the Efficacy of the project at
Modernizing and increasing the productivity of Vietnamese agriculture was Modest .


Reducing Dam Safety Risks
(improvement of dam safety and management)

A significant start was made to develop Vietnam’s institutional and material capabilities for improving dam
safety, and all monitorable indicators were met : A Dam Safety Unit was established responsible for all
dams under the purview of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (the Ministry oversees
about
95 percent of the nation's dams); remedial safety works were carried out on four dams; dam safety
advanced instrumentation was piloted on one dam; a dam safety manual was produced; and a national
regulation on dam safety was issued. These measures fully met project targets and the monitorable
indicators. (The Task Team has also advised IEG that, since project closure, the Guidelines for dam
safety have been adopted by the Ministry for nation-wide application.)The Efficacy of the project in
reducing dam safety risks was Substantial .


Improving Management of Water Resources
(Integrated development and management of the Thu Bon River Basin)

The three intended outputs were: restoring river flows to Danang city; preparing two feasibility studies for
water infrastructure projects; and, establishing a basin coordination committee for coordinating the
management of water resources in the basin. The first two were fully achieved. For the latter, a basin
committee was established in 2005 by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, The committee
was later transferred to be under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, but has not
functioned as a regularly meeting body. In 2010, the monitorable indicator about establishing a
coordinating committee was removed from the project, with an adjustment of the Credit Agreement, as it
was considered that, for political reasons, the ministries were unlikely to cooperate .
 Nevertheless, in a number of key aspects, integrated water resources management has made progress
in
the basin: The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment has convened multi -stakeholder meetings
as needed to decide on water allocation and management. This has included allocation and management
of water between the two provinces sharing the basin, a significant achievement given their separate
governments. Also, water allocation for Danang city required diversion of 20 - 30 percent of river flow,
much of it away from agricultural use. Agricultural to urban (municipal and industrial) diversion of water,
involving strong and competing stakeholder interests, was implemented in a number of other locations as
well. And the two feasibility studies, involved multi -sectoral water development and management of water
on two significant sub-basins (tributaries of the Mekong). These are all coordinated basin management
activities.

In view of the number of basin-based multisectoral integrated water resources management actions (most
under the project) taken in the Water Resources Assistance Project, Efficacy is assessed Substanti al.
Nevertheless, based on global experience, establishment of a permanent basin management committee
would be an appropriate next step.

5. Efficiency:
   For the project's main component, irrigation, unit construction costs were about 40 percent more than
expected due primarily to higher than anticipated inflation of costs of materials . (by June 2006, only two
years after Board approval, cement prices had increased by 20 percent, steel by 100 percent, and labor
by
150 percent, far exceeding the cost contingencies assumed at appraisal ). Only 63 percent of canal works
were able to be constructed within the project budget. Construction of works started over three years after
effectiveness, but was relatively expeditious thereafter - the works done, though less than planned due
primarily to funding constraints from higher than anticipated price inflation of materials and labor, were
completed in the remaining four years of the project.

  The project's economic rate of return is estimated in the ICR at 15.3 percent, but the calculation will not
have captured all of the benefits as it is based on the agricultural benefits from the irrigation
modernization
component (88 percent of project costs) but benefits from municipal and industrial use of water were
included for only two of the irrigation schemes . A more complete ERR estimate, including non-agricultural
as well as agricultural benefits for all of the schemes, is also provided in the ICR and was calculated to be
27.7 percent. This estimate is a better reflection of the project's economic rate of return, as benefits from
municipal and industrial use were significant . For instance, on two of the schemes - Phu Ninh and Dau
Tieng - the Task Team has advised IEG that municipal and urban sector usage is significant, which is
consistent with the ERR results for these two schemes where combined agricultural and urban and
municipal usage resulted in ERRs more than twice the ERRs calculated from irrigation alone . The ERR
from combining benefits from both agriculture and municipal and urban use (i.e. 27 7 percent) is therefore
considered the irrigation component's economic rate of return .

This may be an underestimate of the project's total net benefits, as the benefits (and costs) of the dam
safety and water resources management components are not included in the ICR's economic rate of
return estimate. However, the aggregate ERR including these would depend on the net benefit streams of
each of these other sources of benefits in relation to the agricultural net benefit stream calculated .

The project's Efficiency was Substantial .

                                  ERR )/Financial Rate of Return (FRR)
a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                    FRR ) at appraisal and the
  re-estimated value at evaluation :
  re-

                    Rate Available?                   Point Value                 Coverage/Scope*
  Appraisal               Yes                          14.7%                         88%

  ICR estimate              Yes                           27.7%                      88%
                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The project was highly relevant to Vietnam’s need to enhance agricultural productivity and introduce
improved water resources management and institutional capacity to increase the safety of dams, and the
objectives were consistent with Bank and Government strategies . For the agricultural productivity
objective, the project’s design lacked agricultural modernization to accompany the irrigation
improvements, and this reduced the potential impact of the project . The project was effective in
introducing a dam safety capability, and made a start with multi -sectoral water allocation.

 It was less effective in increasing agricultural productivity . The expanded irrigated area increased
agricultural yields but yields could have been further enhanced with improved agricultural practices as
well. Also, modernization works were not always used by operators and farmers for the improved water
management intended. Nevertheless, the expanded irrigation area significantly increased agricultural
production and the project was economically viable, especially when the benefits from urban usage are
taken account of. The further benefit of the project is that it has provided experience, both of what did and
what did not work, for Vietnam's intentions to scale-up the program over time, and a forthcoming Bank
assisted irrigated agriculture project will also benefit . However, as an overall assessment of the project,
   there were moderate shortcomings in the achievement of the objectives and the relevance of design,
and
the project’s Outcome was Moderately Satisfactory

a. Outcome Rating : Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The commonly found situation of progressive deterioration of irrigation works due to inadequate funds and
O&M, may be a lesser risk in Vietnam due to coverage of service fees by Government (providing such
subsidies continue). Nevertheless, government provisions for O&M will need to provide adequate funds
for repair and maintenance, compared with the present situation where a substantial part of the funds are
taken up for staff salaries and to cover inflation of materials costs . A continuous training and technical
assistance effort will also be needed to ensure that the institutional and infrastructural gains under the
project are protected and further enhanced.

Two factors will help mitigate these risks . First, Government has shown a sustained interest in the project
and is looking for an expanded irrigation modernization program . This commitment is likely to apply to the
project's initiatives as well as to new investments . Second, an Irrigated Agriculture Improvement Project
is
being prepared for Bank financing, which should help strengthen institutional capability . Providing that
adequate O&M funds are provided, project risks are manageable, and the program appears set for
continued Government and Bank support. The project's Risk to Development Outcome is Moderate.
Moderate

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
The strength of the project was the degree of innovation applied, especially for the irrigation
modernization program for which design was to move Vietnam from conventional irrigation and
rehabilitation to higher levels of irrigation management through modernized water management
systems and infrastructure.

The main shortfall was in discounting the role of agricultural modernization as a partner to the irrigation
improvements. By not having an agricultural component, the project is likely to have missed a chance
to have a significantly greater impact relative to its objective to "modernize and increase the
productivity of Vietnamese agriculture." The results framework for the agricultural productivity
objective, was incomplete in the connections between the objective and the means of getting to it, and
this was also reflected in the choice of indicators to assess project performance, which may have
contributed to the focus on engineering. But, overall, a demanding project was prepared and well
documented, requiring skills across much of the water resources management spectrum .


       at -Entry Rating :
 Quality -at-                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

The team performed satisfactorily in helping Government to tackle the innovatory engineering and new
institutions introduced under the project, and also helped to expedite project implementation after the
slow start that Vietnam encountered at project commencement. Practical implementation changes
were made as experience was gained, although more emphasis on "software" aspects of the project
rather than mainly on engineering and procurement would have been desirable . But the time spent on
this was largely a reflection of the implementation demands posed by the project's multi -activity
design, and in the end, the software actions intended under the water management and dam safety
objectives were largely achieved, albeit several actions only late in the project period .
  The Quality of Supervision was Satisfactory .

Taking Quality at Entry and Quality of Supervision together, the Overall
Performance of the Bank was Moderately Satisfactory .



 Quality of Supervision Rating :         Satisfactory

 Overall Bank Performance Rating :           Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

Commitment was strong and central and local governments proactively supported the project and
provided the needed counterpart funds. Most implementation issues were resolved expeditiously,
although a multi-sectoral river basin committee was not established . At the beginning of the project,
staff appointments were slow, which were largely responsible for the project's slow start . Nevertheless,
given Government's commitment and pro-active support overall, Government Performance was
Moderately Satisfactory .


 Government Performance Rating                          Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
The Central Project Office was highly committed to the project, handled procurement and
implementation of over 300 contracts, and tried to expedite other aspects of the project that were
behindhand. There was a tendency to focus on engineering rather than software, though in part this
was because the major effort was to get the project's largest component under construction . Overall,
the central office did well in building capacity and expediting implementation, especially of irrigation
works. The Performance of the Implementing Agency was Satisfactory .


 Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                 Satisfactory

 Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

Monitorable indicators were mostly related to outputs rather than outcome (for instance, for the
agricultural
productivity objective, the two indicators : (i) the number of schemes under the modernization program;
and (ii) number of people trained, tell little about the project's impact ). A more outcome oriented set of
indicators was designed for dam safety. But, for the project as a whole, only a partial measurement base
for assessing the project's impact was established .

b. M&E Implementation:

M&E was coordinated from the Central Project Office with data to be collected and forwarded by field and
unit managers. The M&E program started late - some 3 1/2 years after project start-up. Monitoring for the
  objective to modernize and increase the productivity of Vietnam agriculture was almost entirely related
to
the engineering works. A bench marking program for measuring performance of irrigation schemes was a
good initiative, but was established too late in the project to have much operational use .

c. M&E Utilization:

The combined impact of the late establishment of the M&E program, and the limitations in the indicators
for measurement of project outcome, meant that its utility was limited, and primarily confined to the
project's physical progress. Nevertheless, periodic project progress reports were produced and helped
inform management during project implementation.

The Quality of M&E was Modest.
               Modest

M&E Quality Rating : Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The project was environmental category A and triggered the following safeguards : Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.01); Natural Habitats (OP 4.04); Pest Management (OP 4.09); Cultural Property (OP
4.11); involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30); Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10); and Safety of Dams (OP 4.37).
The ICR reports that the Environmental Management Plan was not effectively monitored at the beginning
of the project, and the appointment of an environmental monitoring consultant was delayed by three years
.
Thereafter, safeguards monitoring and actions improved considerably . A social safeguards assessment
and review of technical design of works was able to reduce the number of affected households from the
initial 11,000 to about 6,000, although the ICR does not evaluate the adequacy of the compensation
package.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Procurement was slow during the first part of the project, but with intensive training became generally
good thereafter. Financial reporting and audits were timely and of acceptable quality . The ICR does not
indicate any cases of financial malfeasance .

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:
Higher than anticipated inflation raising construction costs .


12. Ratings :
12.                        ICR      IEG Review          Reason for
                                             Disagreement /Comments
            Outcome : Moderately        Moderately
                  Satisfactory    Satisfactory
     Risk to Development Moderate          Moderate
            Outcome :

        Bank Performance : Moderately              Moderately
                      Satisfactory       Satisfactory
     Borrower Performance : Moderately              Moderately
                      Satisfactory       Satisfactory
          Quality of ICR :                Satisfactory
   NOTES:
NOTES
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:


The project experience yields the following lessons, of which lessons (i), (iii) and (iv) are adapted from
the ICR, and lessons (ii), (v) and (vi) are from IEG:

(i) The productivity of irrigation investments can be substantially enhanced if also accompanied by
agricultural modernization . The project did not include an agricultural component, and yield increases
were restricted to the impact of irrigation alone . Adding a component or parallel program of intensified
agricultural support would have stimulated significantly larger gains in agricultural productivity than
irrigation improvements alone.
(ii) Tackling water resources management and major irrigation infrastructure together risks creating a
complex project and the possibility that attention to water management is overshadowed by the
construction program . The project could be considered as two thrusts - irrigation modernization; and
water resources management including dam safety. Demands on staff and government time to get the
irrigation modernization program implemented, reduced attention to "software." Under these
circumstances, two projects, one for each focus, might have been better, and would have made addition
of an agricultural component to the irrigation program more manageable .

(iii) A project with significant innovation needs adequate time for project preparation and subsequent
familiarization with stakeholders . Detailed designs for the new structures in the irrigation modernization
program were only partly ready at project commencement. Software areas such as modernization
guidelines, performance benchmarking and computerized water control plans were developed only at
the end of the project.

(iv) Dam safety management relies on a supporting institutional and regulatory framework . Once the
Dam Safety Unit and Regulations were established, the ground was set for other actions The dam
safety manual, standards, guidelines, and instrumentation were subsequently developed .

(v) Holistic River basin management requires a central coordination mechanism . At local (sub-basin)
levels, multi-sectoral feasibility studies and provision of water to an urban area were achieved, and
water allocation decisions between provinces were made through multilateral and across provinces
levels discussions, but an overall basin coordination unit would have provided an established institution
with a clear mandate for basin-wide review.

(vi) Monitoring and Evaluation needs to be focused on a project's outcomes relative to the objectives,
and intermediate indicators should be logically linked to the outcomes . Most monitorable indicators
measured outputs (such as new irrigated area) without considering outcomes (e.g. changes in
agricultural productivity ).


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No

Why? The project includes several core objectives common in Bank water projects : irrigation
modernization, linkage of irrigation with agriculture, dam safety and multi -sectoral, basin based water
resources management. The project experience raised a number of issues and lessons relevant to other
Bank water projects. Within Vietnam itself, the country will be scaling up such operations for some time,
and one such project is under preparation.
  15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is informative and the discussion of project achievements is issues oriented and thoughtful .
Shortfalls in achievements are discussed candidly, including the diagnostic of the Bank's performance .
The lessons are issues based, and are forward looking . Project achievements are in most cases
discussed with reference to the objectives and monitorable indicators . There is a detailed economic
analysis in the annex. Aspects which could have been better include: (i) the objectives for improved
management of water resources, and (to a lesser extent) dam safety, could have been expanded, with
more focus on the outcome; and (ii) the tables on project costs in Annex 1 should have included costs at
completion by component; not just by procurement category.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
