                                             Document of
                                          The World Bank
                                   FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                           ReportNo: 27395-VN




                              PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                               ON A

                                        PROPOSEDCREDIT

          INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 105.7 (US$157.8 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                             SOCIALISTREPUBLICOF VIETNAM

                                              FORTHE

                VIETNAM WATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                           March3, 2004




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region




This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmaybeusedbyrecipientsonly inthe
performanceo f their official duties. Its contentsmaynot otherwisebe disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                  (Exchange Rate Effective January 3 I,2004)

                                      Currency Unit   =    US Dollar
                                       VND 15,713     =    USS1.00
                                     SDR 0.669734     =    US%1.OO

                                              FISCAL YEAR
                            Govemment: January 1      - December31

                                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
AFD      Agence Francaisede Developpement
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPO      Central ProjectOffice
CPRGS    Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
DARD     (Provincial) Departmentof Agriculture and Rural Development
DWR      Departmentof Water Resources(MARD)
DONRE    (Provincial) Departmentof Natural Resources and Environment
EAP      Environmental Action Plan
EIA      Environment Impact Assessment
EMDP     Ethnic Minority Development Plan
EVN      Electricity of Vietnam
FA0      Food & Agriculture Organization
GOVN     Governmentof Vietnam
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstructionand Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICOLD    International Commission on LargeDams
IDA      International Development Association
IMC      Irrigation Management Company
MARD     Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
JBlC     Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MONRE    Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
OPIBP    Operational PolicyIBank Procedure
OPRC     Operational Procurement Review Committee
PIM      Participatory Irrigation Management
PMO      Project Management Office (in MARD's CPO)
PMU      (Provincial) Project Management Unit
PPC      Provincial Peoples Committee
PSW      Procurement of Small Works
QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Consultant Selection
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
SBV      State Bank of Vietnam
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
S I 0    Sub-Implementation Office (MARD)
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
TA       Technical Assistance
VWRAP    Vietnam Water Resources Assistance Project
WUG      Water User Groups

                                  Vice President:          Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                               Country Director:           Klaus Rohland, EAPVN
                                  Sector Director:         Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
                             Task Team Leader:             Greg Browder, EASRD

                                                                                                                                                                                 Page

   A  .STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                                             .................................................................                   1
   1.  Country and sector issues.....................................................................................................................................                   1
   2.
   3 . Rationale for Bank involvement .
       Higher level objectives to which

   B  .PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                   .................................................................................................                         2
   1.  Lending instrument                                                                                                                                                          .....2
   2.  Projectdevelopmen                                                           ...............................................................................................      3
   3 . Projectcomponents..............................................................................................................................................                  3
   4.  Lessons learnedand reflected inthe project design                                                                                          ................................... 5
   5 . Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                                                                                                                                 6

   C  .IMPLEMENTATION                            ..........................................................................................................                            7
   1.  Partnershiparrangements.....................................................................................................................................                     7
   2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements
   3 . Monitoringand evaluation of outcomesiresults
   4.  Sustainability ......................................................
   5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects................................................................................................                              10
   6.  Key Credit Conditions and Covenants...............................................................................................................                             11

   D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
      .                                                   .................................................................................................                          13

   2.
   1.
       Technical..........................................................
   3.                                                             .............................................................................................................. 16
   4.
   5.                                                                                           ................................................................................      18
   6.
   7.                                                                                                   ........................................................................      20

   Annex 1: Country and Sector Background                                         ..............................................................................                     23

   Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and other Agencies                                                                                 ......................       30

   Annex 3: ResultsFramework andMonitoring                                               ........................................................................                    31

   Annex 4: DetailedProject Description                                  ......................................................................................                      35

   Annex 5: Project Costs               ...............................................................................................................                              42

   Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                                        .................................................................................                      43

   Annex 7: FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements                                                                          .....................................           49
This document has a restricted distribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization                                       .       .

Annex 8: Procurement ................................................................................................................    57

Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis                    .............................................................................   70

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues         ............................................................................................    76

Annex 11: Project Preparationand Supervision                       .....................................................................  84

Annex 12: Documentsin the ProjectFile                 .................................................................................   86

Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits                  ..............................................................................   87

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................     89


MAPS
IBRDNo. 32745 Location ofV W W Subprojects
IBRDNo. 32746 Cau Son-Cam Son Subproject
IBRDNo.32752 Yen Lap Subproject
IBRDNo. 32747 Ke Go Subproject
IBRDNo. 32751 PhuNinhSubproject
IBRDNo. 32748 DaBan Subproject
IBRDNo. 32749 DauTieng Subproject
IBRDNo. 32750 Quang Hue-Vu GiaRiver Control Subproject

Date: March 3, 2004                                           Team Leader: Greg Browder
Country Director: Klaus Rohland                               Sector(s)
Sector Managermirector: Hoonae K i d M a r k D. Wilson        AI-Irrigation and drainage (80%),
Project ID: PO65898                                           WD-Flood Protection (10%)
LendingInstrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)             WS-Water Supply (10%)
                                                              Theme(s):
                                                              78-Rural Services and Infrastructure (P)
                                                              85-Water Resources Management (S),
                                                               Environmental Screening Category: A

Proiect Financing Data



      Source                                                     Local        Foreign            Total
Borrower                                                        $12.9             $5.5            $18.4
International Development Association (IDA)                     $76.9           $80.9            $157.8
Total:                                                          $89.8           $86.4            $176.2


 Borrower: Socialist Republic of Vietnam (SRV)
 Responsibleagencies: Ministryof Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD); Electricity o f
 Vietnam (EVN)


     FY           05           06          07              08         09            I O             I1
   Annual            $3.2        $12.7         $31.7        $31.7        $31.71       $31.7    1      $15.
Cumulative           $3.2        $15.9         $47.6        $79.3      $111.o]       $142.7   1     $157.8




Does the project depart f r o m the CAS in content or other significant aspects?         o Yes
 (See SectionA.3)                                                                        0 No
Does the project require any exceptions from Bankpolicies (See Section D.7)              0 Yes
                                                                                         o No
Have these been approved by Bankmanagement?                                              0 Yes
I s approval o f any policy exception sought f r o m the Board?                           o Yes
                                                                                          0 No
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" o r "high" ?              0 Yes
(See Section C.5)                                                                         o No
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation                    Yes
(See Section D.7)                                                                       1 00    No

Project developmentobjective (See B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3)
The project development objective has three parts: (i) agricultural diversification and gains inproductivity
                                                      foster
through irrigation system modemization, and thereby raise farm household incomes and reduce rural poverty; (ii)
:stablish effective systems o f dam safety management and lower the risks associated with dams; and (iii)
                                                                                                       promote
the environmentally sustainable development and management o f water resources in the Thu Bon River Basin.

Projectdescription(See Section B.3.a, Technical Annex 4)
Component 1, Irrigation Modernization ($154.7 million): modernizes infrastructure and management for six o f
Vietnam's largest irrigation schemes, including remedial dam safety works.

Component 2, Dam Safety Management (US$10.2 million): finances remedial safety works on additional dams and
supports the establishment o f a MARDdam safety unit.The component also finances dam safety instrumentation
and data acquisition systems for Hoa Binhdam, the largest dam in Vietnam and locatedupstream o f Hanoi.

Component 3, Thu Bon Basin Development ($2.6 million): finances river control works at the intersection o f Vu
Gia (water source for Da Nang City) and Quang Hue rivers, and initiates a river basin management program
through institutionaldevelopment and preparation o f feasibility studies.

Component 4, Project Management and Capacity Building (USS8.7 million): provides technical assistance,
training, monitoring and evaluation, and project management support.

Which safeguardpoliciesare triggeredif any? (See Section 0.6, Technical Annex 10)
                                       Policy                                              Triggered
 1      EA (OPIBPIGP 4.01)                                                                    Yes
2       Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                          Yes
3       Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                             Yes
4       Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revisedas OP4.11)                                 Yes
5       Involuntary Resettlement (OD4.30)                                                     Yes
6       Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                Yes
7       Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                          Yes


~    ~~




Significant, nonstandardconditions: (See Section C.6):


Credit effectiveness:                                  Formally establish project management offices and units,
                                                        and appointment o f key staff
                                                        Adopt procurement and financial management manuals and
                                                        complete associated training
                                                        Adopt an updated project implementation plan
Condition of Disbursement:                             None

Covenantsapplicableto projectimplementation            See Section C.7.

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Country and sector issues (See Annex 1)

Agriculture provides about a quarter of Vietnam's GDP and exports, and employs two-thirds o f
the labor force. Rural poverty has been sharply reduced over the last decade, falling from 66% in
1993 to 37% in 2002 with only small increases in inequality. Progress inrural poverty reduction
has come from the equitable distribution o f land-userights, freeing up o f prices, and targeted
investmentsinrural infrastructure. Duringthe 1990s, rice production grew rapidly from 20 to 30
million tons annually and Vietnam became the world's second largest rice exporter. More
recently, rice output has stabilized as farmers shifted into production o fmore profitable cash
crops and aquaculture. Future growth inthe rural sector i s expected to come from further crop
diversification and increases inproductivity, making the quality o f irrigation services o f central
importance. A t the same time, industrial and urban growth are straining available water
resources and the needto manage water among competing users within river basins i s
increasing. The dominance o f irrigatedrice production based on abundant water supplieswill
give way to more diversified cropping systems that demand modem hydraulic infrastructureand
more efficient delivery o f irrigation and drainage services.

Vietnam has about 750 large and medium-sized dams, many o fwhich were constructed during
the period from 1970-1990when financial resources and technical expertise were scarce.
Consequently, many dams were built with low design and construction standards. Moreover, the
dam operations, monitoring, and regulatory capacity inVietnam are relatively weak. The
monsoon climate, mountainous terrain, and highpopulation density, combined with low dam
safety standards, pose safety risks that need to be addressed.

The Government o fVietnam (GOVN) has made agricultural modernization a top priority inits
Strategy of Socio-Economic Development 2001-2010, as an instrument o f growth and poverty
reduction. Natural disaster mitigation, particularly for floods and dam breaks, i s highlightedin
the Strategy. These priorities are also reflected inVietnam's Comprehensive Poverty Reduction
and Growth Strategy (CPRGS). The priorities inthe CPRGS are intumreflected inthe Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which has three pillars: (i)     supporting the transition to a
market economy; (ii)   enhancing equitable, inclusive and sustainable development; and (iii)
promoting good governance. The Vietnam Water Resources Assistance Project (VWRAP) i s
consistent with the elements o f the CAS that relate to the rural sector and i s designed to support
the G0V"s strategic goals o f agricultural modernization, improved water resources
management, and natural disaster mitigation.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement (See Annex 2)

The Vietnam Water Resources Assistance Project will support Vietnam inmeeting its strategic
objectives in the rural sector by providing financing, advice on policy development, and
international expertise. The Bank has extensive experience o f irrigation and water resource
issues in Vietnam, having financed three projects inthe sector: the Dau Tieng Irrigation Project
(FY78),the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (FY95), and the Mekong Delta Water Resources
Development Project (FY99). The Dau Tieng project was the first Bank-financed project in
Vietnam after reunification o f the country, and consists o f a large dam and reservoir, with an



                                                   1

irrigation command area o f 65,000 ha. The Dau Tieng scheme was constructed inthe early-
1980s under difficult conditions, and VWRAP will finance its modernization and upgrade the
safety o f the dam. Dau Tieng is the largest subproject under VWRAP with an estimated cost o f
US$62.4 million.

The Bank has supported a number o f irrigation modernization and dam safety projects globally,
and Bank staff will draw upon its international experience to help Vietnam upgrade its hydraulic
infrastructure and management systems. World Bank involvement also brings needed financial
resources to the water resources sector, which despite its importance has suffered from decades
o f under-investment and where many schemes need to be renovated. Inpartnership with other
international donors, central andprovincial government agencies, and project beneficiaries, the
Bank through VWRAP will support the development o f national programs for irrigation
modernization and dam safety, which will have impacts beyond the specific infrastructure
investments to be financed under the project.

To address water resources management issues more comprehensively, Vietnam passed a new
Law on Water Resources in 1999,established a National Water Resources Council, and
committed itself to basin-wide water resource planning and management in the future. VWRAP
will support Vietnam as it makes this transition, inparticular inthe Thu Bon Basin.

3. Higher level objectives to which the projectcontributes

VWRAP will support the key elements inthe Vietnam's CAS inthree ways. First,VWRAP
supports the transition to a more market-based economy by promoting changes ininfrastructure
and management that will encourage and underpin further agricultural diversification. Second,
although irrigated farmers are not among Vietnam's poorest, most o f them livejust above the
poverty line. Bypromoting agricultural diversification and intensification, VWRAP will help to
keep small-scale irrigated farmers out o fpoverty and maintain the gains made inthe 1990s.
Third, the management reforms to be implementedunder VWRAP at the corporate and farmer
group levels will improve governance by making the providers o f an essential public service
more accountable to their clients. Service delivery under VWRAP will be based on a public
utility model that holds the irrigation agencies - the state-owned Irrigation Management
Companies (IMC) - more accountable for their technical and financial performance.

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The project will use a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) instrument. This instrument was selected
to ensure the technical, financial, economic, environmental, and institutional viability o f the
specific subproject investments over the medium term. The use o f credit conditions and
performance indicators also allow the SIL to support the reform o f policies that enhance the
productivity o fthe investments. The Government o f Vietnam is familiar with the operation o f
SILs and with Bank procedures gained from 10 years experience since the Bank's return to
Vietnam in 1993.




                                                   2

2. Project development objective and key indicators

The project development objective has three parts: (i) agricultural diversification and gains
                                                         foster
inproductivity through irrigation system modernization, andthereby raise farm household
incomes and reduce rural poverty; (ii)  establish effective systems o f dam safety management and
lower the risks associated with dams; and (iii) promote the environmentally sustainable
development and management o f water resources inthe Thu Bon River Basin.

Specific results associated with these objectives and their indicators are:

Irrigation Modernization: Increase agricultural diversification and gains inproductivity by
providing more efficient, reliable, flexible, and equitable irrigation services through the
introduction o f modem infrastructure and management on six o f the largest irrigation schemes in
Vietnam. Performance indicators are:

    P Serviced area o f each scheme to reach 75% o f the design command area
    P Development and implementation o fcomprehensive management plans for each scheme
    P Water user groups covering 25% o f each scheme area with volumetric service contracts

Dam Safety Management: Reduce flood and disaster risk by improving dam safety and
management throughout Vietnam. Performance indicators are:

    P Establishment o f a functional Dam Safety Unit inMARD
    P Implementation o f remedial safety works on at least 3 to-be-identified dams
    P Complete dam safety audits - approved by the Dam Safety Unit- inthe six dams in
        Component 1 and at least 3 dams to-be-identified
    P Improved Dam Safety Instrumentation for Hoa BinhDam

Thu Bon River Basin Development: Promote integrated management and development o fwater
resources that i s environmentally sustainable on a basin-wide basis usingthe Thu BonRiver
Basin as a pilot case. Performance indicators are:

    P Restorationo friver flows to D aNang City
    P Preparation o f at least two feasibility studies for water resources infrastructure
    P Establishment o f a River Basin Coordination Committee

3. Project components (See Annexes 4 and 5)

Total estimated project costs are US$176.2 million for the following components:

    Component 1: Irrigation Modemization (US$154.7 million)
    Component 2: Dam Safety Management (US$10.2 million)
    Component 3: Thu Bon Basin Development (US$2.6 million)
    Component 4: Project Management and Capacity Building(USSS.7 million)

Component 1:Irrigation Modernization (US$lSA7million): The component will renovate and
modemize the infrastructure and management o f six of the largest irrigation schemes inVietnam:

  Notes:
  1. Dau Tieng Excludes Chu Chi in HCMC (1 1,000 ha), includesTan Hung (10,700 ha) and excludes future expansion
  2. Collection areas are defined as the areaover which IMC collects either full or partial fees in the peak irrigation season



The hydraulic infrastructure will be upgraded to make water delivery more reliable, flexible,
efficient, and equitable. This will be achieved by renovating degraded canals, installing new
types o f water control and flow measurement structures, and developing lower level canal
systems. The safety o f dams supplyingwater for the schemes will be improved through remedial
works, such as additional emergency spillways, slope reinforcement, motorizing spillway gates,
and repairingoutlet works. Modernizing the infrastructure will enable the schemes' managers to
supplymore water to a wider variety o f agricultural, municipal, and industrial users, and make
improved water resource management capacity operational.

This component also aims to improve the management o fthe schemes so that new infrastructure
can be utilized effectively. Eachprovincial irrigation management company (IMC) will prepare
and implement comprehensive plans covering operations, maintenance, and financial
management. A participatory irrigation management (PIM) will be developed for each subproject
whereby water user groups (WUG) will be established that enter into contracts with IMCs for
volumetric service delivery, thereby enhancing I M C accountability. The WUGs will also be
represented inthe I M C management board.

Component 2: Dam Safety Management (USU0.2 million) The component will improve dam
safety and management throughout Vietnam through the establishment o f a Dam Safety Unit in
MARDand the implementationo fremedial safety works inat least three selected dams. The
component also finances the improvement o f the Hoa Binhdam safety instrumentationsystem
(US$1.2 million). Hoa Binh i s the largest reservoir inVietnam, located 75 kms upstream o f
Hanoi on the Da River, and the safety o f the dam and i s o fparamount concern for the entire Red
River delta.

A MARDnational Dam Safety Unit (DMU)will be established underthe project to improve the
management o f all MARD-affiliated dams, with a focus on the six dams inComponent 1.The
DMUwill prepare dam safety and emergency management plans, undertake damsafety
inspections, and formulate and enforce laws and regulations. Approximately US$2.0 million will
be usedto support the start-up activities o fthe DMU.US$7.0 million will be reserved to upgrade
additional, to-be-identified, dams duringimplementation.


                                                                   4

Component 3: Thu Bon Basin Development (US$2.6million): This component will fund the
highpriority QuangHueRiver Flow Stabilizationworks (US$1.6 million), which control the
flow o f water to the cities o f D aNang and Hoi An. Approximately U S $ l.O million will be
reserved for planning and pre-investment studies for priority projects identified inthe Thu Bon
RiverBasin Master Plan, which couldbeconsidered for follow-up financing by the World Bank.

Component 4: Project Management and Capacity Building (US$&7million): This component
will finance technical assistance for project management (US$3.5 million) and training programs
for capacity building (US$2.4 million), which are essential for effective project implementation.
The project will also support incremental operating costs for the project management office and
the (eleven) subproject implementation offices (US$2.8 million).

The project will be implemented inthree phases: PhaseIwill include dams, main canals and
20% o f the command areas inComponent 1;Hoa BinhDam instrumentationinComponent 2;
and Quang HueRiver works from Component 3. Inaddition, design work for the 80% o f work
remaining will be completed. Phases I1and I11will each cover halfthe remaining work inthe
project command areas. The rationale for phasing implementationis to provide the opportunity
to pilot both new water control structures and new approaches to participatory irrigation
management before extending them to the entire project area. Major implementation reviews
comparable to mid-term reviews will be conducted by the Bank inyears 3 and 5 to review
phasing.

4. Lessonslearnedand reflectedin the projectdesign

Upgrade management and infrastructure: Many irrigation schemes inVietnam provide poor
service due to degraded infrastructure caused by low construction standards and quality, deferred
maintenance, and lack o f incentives and accountability by the IMCs. VWRAP will address the
fundamental causes of poor performance by focusing on improving scheme management,
increasing farmer participation, and modemizing infrastructureto enable operators to provide
better service. Inthe past, the GOVNhas focused on rehabilitating schemes often to original
design standards that are inadequate today and by not addressing management problems, which
has resulted inunder-performing irrigation schemes and low investment efficiency. Under
VWRAP, both scheme management and infrastructure will be upgraded to higher performance
standards.

Promote Accountability: Irrigation has been considered a public good inVietnam, and there i s a
lack for accountability both for providing andpaying for the service. The project will address
these constraints intwo ways. First, the project will introduce a system o f pilot volumetric
service contracts at transaction points between IMCs and Water User Groups (WUGs). Charging
for water on a strict volumetric basis is considered impractical inVietnam, but the service
contracts proposed will include provision for delivery o f defined quantities o f water at specific
times. The IMCs will be held accountable for providing water in accordance with the contracts,
and the WUGs will be obligated to make payments ifadequate service i s provided. Second, the
key project performance indicator i s the increase in I M C service area, which will demonstrate
improved service and increase I M C revenues, thereby allowing increased maintenance to sustain



                                                  5

service and initiate a virtuous circle. Training and capacity buildingare integral to the project
and essential for establishing accountability as people and organizations should be held
accountable only when they are qualified and equippedto undertake that responsibility.

Comprehensive Dam Safety: Dams rarely fail for one specific reason but generally through a
combination o f unforeseen events. Dam safety remedial works are important to reduce risk, but
they must be accompanied by improved dam safety management overseen by a regulatory body.
Past investments indam safety have focused on physical works and neglectedthe management
and regulatory framework. VWRAP includes a national dam safety program, focusing first on
MARD,and aiming to create an appropriate regulatoryregimeto ensure comprehensive dam
safety management at specific facilities. Each subproject will be required to prepare and
implementdam safety management and emergency preparationplans.

Project scope: Although the project i s the largest Bank-financedoperation inthe irrigation
subsector to-date inVietnam, efforts have been made to reduce the complexity o f design by
ensuringthat all six sub-projects inComponent 1follow the same basic approach to irrigation
modernization. Since all six irrigation subprojects rely on dams, which automatically invoke the
Bank's Dam Safety Safeguard Policy, the decision was made to use the project to address dam
safety issues.

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

Project Length: Rural sector projects inVietnam typically are planned for five or six-year
periods o f implementation, but VWRAP is proposed for seven years. This longer duration was
considered necessary to provide enough time progressively to introduce new irrigation
modernization concepts and build capacity to support the reform efforts. Inaddition, some o f the
works are large and canal construction work can only take place intermittently - seasonally or
duringwater closures - to minimize adverse impacts on farmers, thus prolonging the construction
period.

Integrated Water Resources Management: Each o f the six irrigation schemes under VWRAP
belong to river basins with multiple water users. Ideally, all o f the schemes would be managed
within the context o f an integratedbasin management system, but Vietnam has onlyjust begun to
put inplace the institutions and capacity to manage water comprehensively at the basin level.
Since several international agencies are providing capacity support at the national level to
improve water resources management, it was not considered necessary to address national issues
underVWRAP, although the World Bank remains actively involved insupporting and tracking
these efforts through analytical work, partnership groups and liaison with other international
agencies. Addressing river basinmanagement issues for all six basins was considered impractical
due to the limited resources and capacity ofthe implementing agencies to deal effectively with a
new concept. The decision was made, therefore, to concentrate on management o f one river
basin- Thu Bon Basin. The Thu Bon Basin covers the city o f D a Nang, which i s not only the
third largest economic center inVietnam, after Hanoi and H o Chi MinhCity, but also faces
pressing and complex water resource problems.




                                                  6

National Dam Safety: Most of the large dams inVietnam are owned and operated by Electricity
o f Vietnam (EVN) which i s supervised by the Ministryo f Industry(MOI), while MARDhas
responsibility for irrigation dams and flood protection. Requiring a stand-alone "National Dam
Safety Unit" under the National Water Resources Council, which is now part o f the recently
established Ministryo fNatural Resources and Environment (MONRE), was considered and
rejected, based mainly on institutional constraints. Instead, the project will facilitate the
establishment o f a to-be-defined institutional mechanism for the coordination o f dam safety
activities, laws and regulations inVietnam, with respect to MARD and EVNrelated dam safety
programs. The project will focus primarily on MARD dam safety issues-where            the most serious
problems are believed to reside-and     support the formation o f a MARDDam Safety Unit.In
parallel, VWRAP will finance dam safety improvements at Hoa Binh, which i s owned by EVN,
but operated during flood season incollaboration with MARD.Thus, both EVNand MARDwill
be engaged in dam safety management under the project.

Provincial vs. Central GovernmentImplementation: Inthe past, MARD was responsible for
implementingirrigation projects at the provincial level. Under the new GOVNpolicy o f
decentralization and with VWRAP's emphasis on improving the performance o f existing
systems, the decision was made to allow provincial governments to be the implementing agency
for irrigation modemizationworks. Dam safety works and inter-provincial works, due to their
more complicated nature, will remainthe responsibility of MARD.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

Although there will be no co-financing under VWRAP, the World Bank will continue to work
closely with other donor programs to provide consistent support for irrigation modemization,
dam safety, and water resource management activities inVietnam. MARD has established the
International Support Group (ISG) to promote donor coordination o f support to the Ministry. In
water resources management a special technical group under ISGhas operated for approximately
two years led by the Government and supported by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), o f
which the World Bank i s a member. The UnitedNation's Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO) also supports an active program o f irrigation modemization from its regional office in
Bangkok, Thailand. FA0 staff have been involved inpreparation o f VWRAP, and will support
training for irrigation modemization and participatory irrigation management programs during
imp1ementation.

For the Dau Tieng subproject, the IDA-financed investments will upgrade the existing irrigation
scheme and improve dam safety. The ADB and the Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD)
are considering financing an extension o f the existing Dau Tieng scheme through the proposed
Phuc Hoa Project, which would transfer water from the Song Be Basin into the Dau Tieng
reservoir and expand the irrigated area inneighboring provinces. Although VWRAP does not
depend on Phuc Hoato meet its project objectives, ADB, AFD, andthe World Bank share a
common interest inensuring efficient system operation and will cooperate with provincial and
national agencies on basin and scheme management issues inDau Tieng.




                                                  7

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements(See Annexes 6,7, and 8)

MARDwill bethe primary executing agency for the project. EVNwill be the executingagency
for the US$1.2 million Hoa Binhcomponent. BothMARD and EVNhave extensive experience
with implementingIDA-financedprojects.

Since VWRAP supports the development o f national programs inirrigation modernizationand
dam safety, MARDwill establish a high-level Project Steering Committee, chairedby a MARD
Vice Minister,with representatives from the Ministry o f Planning and Investment, Ministryo f
Finance, State Bank o f Vietnam, and representatives from the six respective Provincial People's
Committees. A special Irrigation ModernizationTask Force has also been established to provide
technical and policy guidance to MARD on Vietnam's overall irrigation and dam safety
modemizationprogram.

MARDproject management functions take place at various levels. At the top level, aMARD
Vice Minister has overall responsibility for the project, and provides general guidance. The two
keyMARDagencies are the Department o fWater Resources inMARDand the Central Project
Office, both o f which report to the same Vice Minister responsible for the project. The DWR
i s mandated to provide policy, planning, and management oversight o f irrigation schemes in
Vietnam. Inconjunction with other MARD departments, including the Planning and
ConstructionDepartments, the DWR will review and recommend for MARD approval tender
documents, large contracts, and irrigation management plans. DWR will be the lead MARD
department for overall project supervision and monitoring, and a DeputyDirector o f DWR chairs
the Irrigation Modernization Committee.

MARD's CentralProject Office (CPO) is responsible for management o f all foreign-financed
water resource projects inVietnam, including ADB, JBIC, and World Bank-assisted projects.
CPO has a staff o f managers, engineers, safeguard specialists, procurement specialists, and
accountants who are familiar with both GOVN and donor requirements. A VWRAP Project
Management Office (PMO) will be established within CPO to provide day-to-day project
management and liaise between implementing agencies, the World Bank, and the relevant
departments o f MARD.

Implementation o f the project will take place through two mechanisms. MARDsub-
implementation offices (SIOs) will be responsible for complex dam safety or any inter-provincial
works. MARD has a network o f SIOs organized on a regional basis to implement large projects
financed by the central govemment. However, most irrigation schemes are owned and operated
by provincial governments, and provincial project management units (PMUs) will be established
to implement canal improvement works. The PMUs will be composed primarily o f staff from the
provincial Departments o f Agriculture and Rural Development (DARD) and the Irrigation
Management Companies, under the authority o fthe Provincial People's Committee (PPC).
MARD'sSIOs and the provincial PMUs willberesponsible for most procurement and all
construction supervision activities, and operate under the general MARDproject management
framework.




                                                 8

There will be seven PMUs and four SIOs involved inthe project, all o f whom will operate under
the general supervision o f the PMO inthe Central Project Office. The MARDPMO will be
responsible for managing the IDA special account, procurement o f ICB and QCBS contracts,
contractor payments, ensuring safeguard compliance, and reporting to IDA, MARD, and the
GOVN. While these institutional arrangements appear complex, they are consistent with
Vietnam's policy o f decentralizationand are similar to the arrangements used inprevious World
Bank- financed projects. The main difference i s that provincial authorities will take more
responsibility for modernizing their own schemes under V W W . An overall project
organization chart i s provided inAnnex 6.

The International Cooperation Department o f EVNwill be responsible for the Hoa Binh
subcomponent, and will work closely with EVN's Hoa Binhmanagement office. Giventhe small
size o f the EVNcomponent a separate special account is not necessary. Since there will only be
one large turnkey contract (approximately US$1.1 million) and perhaps one or two small
consultancy contracts, the direct payment procedure can be usedfor the EVNsubcomponent.
Since EVNi s considered to be a commercial enterprise, M O F will enter into a subsidiary loan
agreement with EVN for the subcomponent.

Because V W W includes a broad range o f reforms and the progressiveintroduction of modern
irrigation infrastructure and management, the project duration i s estimated to be seven years
starting inmid-2004. Since the canal systems supply irrigation water to farmers, communities,
and industries, they cannot be closed for longperiods o f time. Canal construction works can only
be undertaken on an intermittent basis, thus prolongingthe constructionperiod.

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults (See Annex 3)

The VWRAP PMO, under the direction o f MARD's Department o f Water Resources, will be
responsible for project monitoring and evaluation. World Bank supervision missions will take
place at least twice a year, with formal reviews equivalent to mid-term reviews inYears 3 and 5
o f implementation.

The project's key performance indicator will be the increase inI M C fee collection area for each
subproject duringthe major irrigation season. The project will finance a comprehensive
benchmarking and training program implemented through a Vietnamese institute, which will
conduct scheme audits as part o f the benchmarking program, and compile the results into one
document. Preliminary benchmarking training and audits o f two schemes, Dau Tieng and Cam
Son, have taken place during project preparation. MARDhas agreed to expand these efforts into
a national program, focusing initially on the VWRAP subprojects. An independent panel o f
national and international dam safety advisors will be convened to oversee and advise on the
MARDdam safety program. The panelwill producereports describing the nationaldam safety
program, and contain recommendations for improvements.

4. Sustainability

Sustainability o f the project's benefits depends primarily on provincial government leadership
and MARD oversight. The GOVN and MARDhave a strong commitment to improving the



                                                  9

performance o f irrigation schemes and dam safety. An Irrigation Modemization Task Force has
been established by MARD to guide the process, and draft decrees on participatory irrigation
management and dam safety are under consideration by MARD.IMCs are provincial state-
owned-enterprises under the supervision o f the Provincial Peoples Committee (PPC). Inorder
to sustain project benefits, the PPCs will holdthe IMCs accountable and have a basis for judging
their performance. The project design attempts to address this issue by establishinga national
benchmarking program whereby the performance o f the IMCs can be objectively assessed and
compared with other provinces. This will provide both MARD and the PPC with information to
judge the performance o f IMC management. Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM)
programs will be established ineach subproject province to help develop a constituency for
better I M C services, and provide a forum for increased farmer interactionwith the IMCs.

Sustainability o f dam safety management activities will be enhanced under the project through
formulation of a national regulatory framework, including the establishment o f a MARD Dam
Safety Unit.The project will also develop a mechanism to coordinate dam safety activities, laws
and regulations inVietnam, inparticular MARD- and EVN-related dam safety programs. The
appropriate institutional arrangements to do this will be studied and developed during the project.
The active involvement o f MARD and EVNdam safety units inintemational organizations, such
as the International Commission on Large Dams (ICOLD), will also raise their understanding o f
the importance of, and procedures for, dam safety regulation and management.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

                    Risks                                                             RiskRating

                                                                                     __________.__.
                                                                                      wlMitigation
                                                                                              -----------

                                                                                      Substantial


 ________________________________________.----------------------.
 modernization

 _.___________
 To Component Results
          ._______________________________________-----------------.
 1. Irrigation Modemization:
 a) L o w capacity o f units new to Bank  a) Ensure well-funded and closely
 procedures and insufficient training     supervised training program
 b) Inadequate technical expertise        b) Provide technical assistance
 c) Lack o f farmer participation         c) Ensure implementation o f P I M programs
 d) Low levels o f cooperationbetween     d) Ensure effective involvement o fMARD
 departments concerned with construction   Steering Committee and Modemization
 and irrigationmanagement inMARD          Task Force

                                          a) Provide technical assistance and         Modest
                                           independent expert panel
                                          b) Confine involvementto instrument
                                          upgrades
                                              __________________._____________




                                                     10

6.     Key Credit Conditionsand Covenants

Conditions of Effectiveness:


0  MARDshall establish a Project Management Office (PMO), and each project province shall
   establish a Provincial Project Management Unit (PMU), with functions and staffing
   acceptable to IDA. All existing MARD Sub-implementation Offices (SIOs) involved in the
   project shall also appoint an accountant and a procurement specialist.


0  MARDwill finalize and adopt aProject ImplementationPlan (PIP) acceptable to IDA which
   sets forth in detail the organizational structure, schedule o f activities, and procurement plan.
   The PIP will be updated periodically.


0  MARD shall finalize and adopt a Project Financial Management Manual and establish a
   financial management system acceptable to IDA, and complete training for all PMO, PMU,
   and S I 0 staff.

   MARD shall finalize and adopt a Procurement Manual acceptable to IDA, and complete
   procurement training for all PMO, PMU, and S I 0 staff.

Dated Covenants and Time-Bound Implementation Plan:

By December 31, 2004:

   Complete all necessary tender documents for lStcivil works.
                                                      year

   MARD shall prepare a detailed rollingtwo-year plan for training and capacity building, in
   particular inregard to participatory irrigation management programs, acceptable to IDA, and
   thereafter implementthe plan ina manner satisfactory to IDA.The plan shall be updated
   annually throughout the course o f the project.

   MARD shall appoint a panel o fqualified and independent dam experts with terms of
   reference and qualifications acceptable to IDA, to review and advise the Borrower on matters
   related to dam safety activities financed under the project; and to advise on the national dam
   safety program as requested.

   Each project province, as a condition to its participation inthe Project, shall enter into a
   Memorandum o f Understanding(MOU) with the Ministry o f Finance, acceptable to IDA,
   which sets forth, among other matters, the authorization, and terms and conditions, for said
   province to use the proceeds o f the IDA Credit for the modemization and improvement o f
   any part o f its irrigation scheme, including canals serving less than 150ha, which are
   included inthe Project Feasibility Study, provided the province shall be responsible for at
   least 20% o f the costs for such works.

   Establish and maintain throughout the period o fproject implementation a Steering
   Committee to be chaired by a vice minister o f MARD, with representation from the Ministry



                                                 11

   o fPlanning and Investment, Ministry o f Finance, State Bank o f Vietnam, and fi-om the
   People's Committee o f each project province to provide overall guidance inthe
   implementationo f the project.


By March 31, 2005:


0  MARD shall engage a technical assistance team, with expertise in irrigation engineering and
   management, participatory irrigation management, dam safety, construction, procurement,
   environmental and social safeguards, and with terms o f reference and qualifications
   acceptable to IDA.

By December 31, 2005.


0  MARDshall establish a dam safety unitresponsible for i)establishinga system ofdam
   inspections, including regulations, procedures and standards for dam construction and
   management to ensure dam safety; ii)supervising dam safety inspections; iii)establishing
   standards for and building the capacity o f dam owners, operators, and inspectors; and iv)
   establishing and maintaining a database anddissemination o f information on dams in
   Vietnam; all inrespect o f dams under MARD'sjurisdiction; and v) no later than June 30,
   2007 formulate recommendations regarding the establishment o f a national dam safety
   coordination mechanism to ensure consistency among the various agencies responsible for
   dam safety.

By June 30, 2006:

0  MARD shall cause each project province to prepare an environmental management planin
   respect o f indirect impacts from irrigation scheme operation, which analyzes among other
   issues and as may be appropriate, those related to: i)design o f a water quality monitoring
   program; ii)aquaculture; iii)municipal and industrial pollution control; and iv) reservoir
   watershed management, and develop proposals for addressing problems identified, and
   thereafter implement such environmental plan.


0  Complete an assessment o f the IntegratedPest Management program under implementation
   within each project province.

   Establish a Thu Bon River Basin Steering Committee with representation from MARD,
   Quang Nam Province, the City o f D aNang, and Ministry o fNatural Resources and
   Environment (MONRE), with such powers, functions, and resources as shall be necessary to
   support basin-wide flood management, water allocation, and planning and management o f
   water resources infrastructure, and to guide and review feasibility studies prepared under the
   project.




                                                 12

By December 31, 2006:

    Each project province, and MARD inthe case o f the Dau Tieng IMC, shall prepare for IDA
    review and comment an I M C management plan setting forth: the organizational structure;
    procedures and guidelines for the administration, operation and maintenance o f the irrigation
    system; financial management; an action plan for the gradual increase inirrigation service
    fee collection coverage; principles andprocedures for participatory irrigation management,
    and monitoring and evaluation plans. Eachprovince shall implement the I M C management
    plan ina manner satisfactory to IDA, and from time to time review the plan with MARD and
    IDA and update as necessary.

By December 31, 2007:

    Prepare a time-bound action plan for the establishment o f a national dam safety coordination
    mechanism, and thereafter put into effect such action plangiving due consideration to IDA'S
    view thereon.

General Non-Standard Conditions:

    Eachproject province, and MARD inthe case o f the Dau Tieng IMC, shall take all necessary
    actions to enable the respective IMCs to meet the costs o f operation and maintenance as
    established in its management plan.

    MARD shall maintain an Irrigation Modernization Task Force throughout the project with
    such powers, responsibilities, and resources as shall be necessary to provide technical and
    policy guidance on a national program o f irrigation and dam safety modernization.

    Upon completion o f the works on the Cat Hai water transfer facilities, under the Yen Lap
    Subproject in Component 1, MARD shall transfer ownership and associated operations
    responsibility o f said facilities to the Hai Phong Water Supply Company.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicand financial analyses (See Annex 9)

Cost-benefit                ERR=14.7%

Economic benefits derive primarily from modernization and renovation o f deteriorated water
infrastructure, resulting inmore reliable, efficient, and equitable water distribution. This will lead
to increased crop diversification, higher yields, and lower production costs and thereby increase
farmer incomes. More equitable water distribution, generated through improved infrastructure
and participatory irrigation management, will have a positive impact on the poorer farmers often
found at the tail ends o f irrigation canals. The project investments inirrigation modernization
and dam safety will help to prevent dam or canal failure and subsequentdamage that could cause
loss o f life or interrupt farm production. The project will also generate non-agricultural benefits




                                                   13

from increased water supply to municipal and industrial (M&I) users and cost savings related to
flood prevention or mitigation.

A conservative approach has been taken inthe economic analysis by taking into account only the
direct benefits that can be monetized. This includes primarily the incremental returns from
irrigated farming within the existing irrigation command area o f each sub-project. For water
supply, benefits were calculatedonly for Yen Lap and DaBan subprojects because these
subprojects have confirmed investments for municipal and industrial (M&I)water supply, which
draw water from the irrigation schemes. For the other subprojects, although M&Iwater use from
the irrigation schemes is expected to grow significantly inthe future, the timing and magnitude
o f the increases cannot be confirmed with accuracy and thus were not included inthe economic
analysis. Dam safety investments were not considered inthe benefit-cost analysis, but rather a
least-cost analysis was performed to ensure the dams meet the safety designcriteria at the lowest
cost. Nevertheless, benefits and costs are also captured incriteria for dam safety design. Dams
with higher economic and loss o f life risks have higher design criteria.

The project i sjustified based on an overall estimated rate o f retum o f 14.7% with sub-projects
ranging from 11%to 34%. Four o f the seven subprojects have ERRs at or just below the Bank's
guideline o f 12%. However, the analysis is conservative intwo ways: (i)      it does not include the
very real, but difficult to assess, "future without-project" situation inwhich benefits are declining
as the irrigation systemcontinues to deteriorate; and (ii)   substantially increased municipal and
industrial water supply i s not included where it cannot be clearly imputed to the project.
Sensitivity analysis shows the ERR i s robust under various scenarios, including increased costs,
delayed benefits and diminished benefits due to adverse movements o fprice, yield and
performance o f irrigation service providers. However, the overall rate o f retum i s most sensitive
to delayed realization o f benefits, which could be caused by delays inimplementation,
particularly in construction o f tertiary canals, and four subprojects would have ERRsbelow the
guideline ifthe expected benefits decreaseby 20%.

The financial sustainability o fthe project is dependent on increasing farmer incomes and IMC
revenues. Based on crop budgets, farm income i s expected to increase on the order o f 50%-100%
due to greater diversification, higher yields, and lower production costs. I M C revenues should
also increase on the order o f 50%-100%, due to extending service coverage, greater incentive to
collect fees, and increased farmer willingness to pay due to better service, increased incomes,
and more participation inirrigation management. Since most o f the IMCs' costs are already
fixed, highernet revenues can be used to improve maintenance and ensure better performance o f
the schemesand service sustainability. Financialprojections show that by the endo fthe project,
the IMCswill be able to cover all requiredmaintenance costs, andmost IMCs will generate
small surpluses. This should result inbetter scheme performance and sustainability. MARD
guidelines for water fee rates are around 5-8% o f farm production (paddy equivalent), depending
on the type o f service provided (i.e. full gravity, partial pump lifted/gravity, fully pump lifted).
Actual fees are set by provincial governments, and usually range from 3-5% o f farm production.
I M C revenues will be increased primarily through expansion in service coverage and collection,
rather than hikes infee rates.




                                                   14

Fiscal impact on the provincial govemment i s expected to be approximately neutral. Tax
revenues will increase due to incremental farm production, and the elimination o f subsidies to
IMCs will reduce provincial expenditures. Provincial govemments, however, will be requiredto
repay approximately 20% o f all project costs. The increase intax revenues, combined with I M C
surpluses, approximately cover the debt service costs. Alternatively, the provincial governments
could reduce the tax rate and charge higher water fees to cover the debt service costs. During
project implementation, detailed financial management plans will be developed for each IMC.

2. Technical (See Annex 4)

An overall project feasibility studyo facceptable quality has beenprepared, andpreliminary
engineering designs have been completed for first phase (Phase I)    o fworks which cover:
Component 1-dams, main canals, and 20% o f the command areas; Component 2-Hoa Binhdam
instrumentation; and Component 3-Quang Hueriver works. Duringimplementation, designs for
the remaining 80% o f the command areas under Component 1, and the dams to be identified
under Component 2 will be undertaken. The rationale for only starting with 20% percent o fthe
command area inComponent 1, the so-called "pilot areas", is to have an opportunity to test new
types o f water control infrastructure and participatory irrigation management approaches.
Lessons leamed inthe pilot areas will be applied inPhase I1and Phase I11o f the project, each
covering half o f the rest o f the command area.

The project includes a number o ftechnical issues that will needto be carefully managed during
implementation. Modem canal lining and strengthening approaches will be used to renovate
degraded canals. Since farmers rely on irrigation water from the canals, a key challenge will be
to devise methods to minimize service disruptions while maintaining construction quality and
cost efficiency. A number o f options for expediting canal works have been identified at the
feasibility level and will be explored further duringearly phase o f implementation. New water
control structures, such as long-crested weirs, and flow measurement devices will be introduced
underthe project. The detailed design and construction o f these structures must be o fhigh
quality inorder to function properly. The modernization o f irrigation infrastructure will require
capacity building and training across a broad spectrum, including government agencies,
engineering companies, irrigation management companies, and water user groups. The project
finances significant training and technical assistance activities to ensure that modem
infrastructure i s properly designed, constructed, and operated.

Improving irrigation management i s another dimension to achieving higher performance.
VWRAP will complement modemization o f infrastructure investmentsby fostering more
participatory irrigation management and upgrading skills o f the IMCs and water user groups
(WUGs).This will be done through training, and development o fmanagement plans covering
the following issues: i)organization structure; ii)system operation; iii)maintenance; iv)
administration; v) financial management; vi) participatory irrigation management; and vii)
monitoring and evaluation. A national benchmarkingprogram will be established under the
project, providing MARD and the (PPC) with objective information on how different schemes on
performing. Volumetric service contracts between IMCs and WUGs will tested on a pilot basis,
and should serve to make service provision more transparent. These measures should provide a
basis for enforcing accountability for I M C performance.



                                                  15

Remedial works on MARD dams consists primarily o f improving spillway capacity, slope
protection, installing instrumentation, access roads, etc. New Vietnamese dam safety standards
were promulgated in2002 and were adopted under the project. These standards, are more
conservative from a safety perspective than earlier standards, and generally in line with
international practice. Insome cases, such as Dau Tieng, additional safety measures were
adopted given the importance o f the dam and the catastrophic consequences o f a dam break
upstream o f H o Chi MinhCity. Inaddition to the six dams under Component 1, there are many
other dams inVietnam with safety problems that needto be upgraded. Component 2 reserves
US$7 million for upgrading to-be-identified dams duringproject implementation. Approximately
US$2.0 million will be used for institutional strengthening, including training to assist inthe
start-up o f MARD's Dam Safety Unit to take responsibility for a comprehensive system o f dam
inspections, and for development and enforcement o f laws and regulations. An independent dam
safety panel will be established under to review and advise on dam safety works under the
project, and to advise on the national dam safety program as requested.

Hoa Binhi s the largest dam and reservoir inVietnam, located approximately 75 kmupstream o f
Hanoi on the D a River which i s a major tributary o f the RedRiver. The upper half o f the Da
watershed i s inChina, and the lower halfinVietnam. The dam was completed inthe early 1990s,
and constructed with technical and financial assistance from the former Soviet Union.
International and World Bank experts have inspected the dam and found no obvious structural
problems, and although the spillway i s somewhat undersized it poses no immediate, major safety
concerns. However, the dam safety monitoring and instrumentation system is outdated and will
be upgraded under the project.

3. Fiduciary (See Annexes 7 and 8)

An assessmento fthe adequacy o fthe project financial management systemwas carried out
by an IDA team inJune 2003, and updated inearly October 2003. The scope o fthe work has
been set out inthe "Assessment of Financial Management Arrangement in World Bank-
financed Projects-Guidelines to Staf' issuedby the Financial Management Sector Board
dated June 30th2001. The objective o f the review was to assess the suitability o f the existing
project financial management system as required by the Bank under OP/BP 10.02 with a view
to implementingthe proposedproject. InAnnex 7, the financial management risks have been
addressedusingthe recent Vietnam Country Financial Accountability Assessment and also
have been analyzed at levels relevant to the project covering inherent risk, control risks as
well as mitigating factors. The results o f the assessment and corresponding remedial actions
to address weaknesses have been agreed with the agencies and are included inthe Action
Plan (see Attachment 1 inAnnex 7). The review has concluded that with the fulfillment o f the
above Action Plan, this project will meet the Bank's financial management requirements. The
Project will produce Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs) and follow standard disbursement
methods.

MARDand EVNhaveexperience implementingvarious projects fundedby the World Bank.
Project accounts will be kept for all projects related expenditures usingaccounting principles and
practices acceptable to IDA. Project accounts will be audited on an annual basis inaccordance
with internationalstandards on auditing, and incompliance with the independent auditing



                                                  16

regulations o f Vietnam. The auditor's report will be made available to IDA within six months o f
the close o f each fiscal year. The audit will include a separate opinion on the SOEs other than the
Special Accounts and Project Accounts. A management letter addressing internal control
weaknesses of implementing agencies will also be provided by the auditor together with the audit
report.

An assessmentof the procurement capacity of various MARDproject management units was
carried out in accordance with World Bank procedures. The project will follow standard Bank
procurement procedures. Both MARD and EVNPMOs have significant experience inIDA
procurement procedures, and have experienced procurement staff. All I C B and QCBS contracts
will be handledby the PMOs. Most of the MARDN C B procurement will take place at the
subproject level through PMUs and SIOs, which do not have experience with IDAprocedures,
but are well-versed inGOVNprocurement and construction management. Given the country's
general procurement environment as reported inthe Country Procurement Assessment Report,
and lack o f experience at the sub-implementationlevel, the overall procurement risk i s rated as
"high." To overcome these constraints, acomprehensive ProcurementManual and Training
Programhas been developed. Inaddition, domestic and intemational consultants will be
contracted to assist the PMOs and PMUs/SIOs duringproject implementation. IDA procurement
specialists will assist and evaluate the procurement training for SIOs/PMUs to ensure adequate
capacity before subproject activities begin. IDA shall carry out ex-post reviews o f 20 percent o f
the contracts that were not subject to prior review. With the concurrence o f the Regional
Procurement Advisor, this percentage may be lowered if,duringimplementation, it i s determined
that the processing o f procurement i s satisfactory and there is a lower perceivedrisk.

4. Social

The project will provide more efficient, equitable and reliable irrigation services to farmers, and
i s expected to improve access to irrigation water for all farmers inthe system, particularly
benefiting those at the tail-end o f the canal system. The project i s designed to increase and
improve farmers' participation inirrigation management by strengthening local water user
groups, and involving them more inoverall scheme management. Social assessments have been
conducted in all subproject areas which confirm there i s an urgent need to upgrade the degraded
irrigation systems and farmers expect this project to benefit them significantly. The project will
establish a new mechanism o f water use management with active participation o f farmers. For
this purpose, farmers, including women, will also be trained.

Project implementationwill take place inphases, and Phase 1will cover: Component 1-dams,
main canals, and 20% o f the command areas; Component 2-Hoa Binhdam instrumentation; and
Component 3-Quang Hue river works. Duringimplementation, designs for the remaining 80% of
the command areas under Component 1, and the dams to be identified under Component 2 will
be undertaken.

Socio-economic surveys and social assessment exercises have identified ethnic minority groups
inone ofthe subproject areas (Cam Son) inPhaseI.The survey and assessmentsindicate that
the project will have no adverse impacts upon them, and that they will benefit from the project.
Project informationhas been disclosed among them and consultations have been conducted with



                                                   17

local leaders and communities. An ethnic minority people development policy framework has
also been developed to guide future planningregarding ethnic minority issues inPhase I1and 111,
and will be applicable regardless of whether the impacts on Ethnic Minorities are positive or
negative.

One impact o f the project is the possible disruption o f water supply due to the closure o f the
main canal system for rehabilitation. This has beendiscussed extensively with MARD and the
provincial authorities, who are keenly aware o f this issue. The construction work will be
planned and implemented as much as possible to minimize disruption o f water supply, and
arrangements will be discussed and planned with local communities prior to civil works.

A studyon gender issues underthe project was carried out duringproject preparation. It reveals
significant potential for women, particularly women-headed households and vulnerable groups,
to participate inboth construction and water management. Local authorities expressed
commitment to greater involvement o f women inwater management. Training o f farmers and
capacity buildingto establish water user groups, which includes increased participation o f
women, has beenincorporated into project design. Gender training will be provided to project
management staff at all levels to sensitize them to issues and opportunities to advance gender
equity.

Since VWRAP finances safety works on existing dams, resettlement legacy issues were
examined. The ESSD Safeguard Unit advised that: i)a rapid assessment o f legacy issues should
be undertaken for each project dam duringpreparation; ii)ifresettlement legacy issues are
identified and dam construction was financed by the World Bank, then a resettlement
rehabilitationprogram should be included under the project; iii)ifresettlement legacy issues are
identified but the Bank did not finance dam construction, then the Bank should consider requests
by the Government to finance a resettlement rehabilitation program.

Dau Tieng dam was financed by the World Bank but no resettlement legacy issues were
identified. None o f the remaining dams were financed by the Bank. For Phu Ninh,a minor
resettlement legacyproblem was identified and Provincial officials have requested assistance
from MARDto fund the construction o f small-scale irrigation systems under the project for the
people displaced due to the original construction o f the dam This proposal will be appraised by
MARDand IDA duringimplementation. For HoaBinh, a large resettlement legacy issue exists
and details are provided inAnnex 10.However, the GOVNhas not requested support for this
issue from VWRAP.

5. Environment

VWRAP is treated as a "Category A" project although the EIA indicated that the impacts were
more in line with "Category B" projects. Seven detailed environmental impact assessments
(EIAs)were carried out for the six irrigation subprojects and the Quang Hue River subproject,
and consolidated into a project-wide EIA document. A separate EIA for the EVNHoa Binh
component was not done, as the defined investments only deal with upgrading existing dam
monitoring equipment, but the issues are discussed inthe project EIA. The EIA report was
cleared by the East Asia Safeguards units and has been submitted to the Bank's Infoshop and



                                                 18

disclosed within Vietnam. Given that project activities will be implemented inphases and there
are activities with unknown nature and locations under the MARD dam safety fund, an
Environment and Social Safeguard Screening Framework (ESSF) was prepared and approved by
IDA.The ESSFhas beenincorporatedinto the EnvironmentalManagement Plan (EMP) and will
be applied to subsequent phases o fthe six irrigation subprojects inComponent 1, and the MARD
dam safety works under Component 2, and any other unidentifiedworks.

The EIA study concluded that the overall impact o f the project will be positive and most o f the
potential negative impacts are temporary, localized, and can be mitigated. The major
constructionissues identifiedby the EIA are temporary disruption o fwater supply; extraction
and disposal o f construction materials; and possible risks due to unexploded ordnance. During
operations, there are potential secondary impacts associated with more efficient water supply
such as increased use o f pesticides and fertilizers due to agricultural intensification; aquaculture
development potentially impacting coastal wetlands; and water pollution from municipalities and
industries. A detailed environmental management plan(EMP) was formulated, including its
implementation arrangements and estimated costs. Fundingfor implementation o f the EMP,
estimated to be US$1.1million, will be provided under the IDA credit.

6. Safeguard policies (See Annex 10)
  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                               Yes                      No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                   [XI
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                             [x 1
                                                                                             ~~




  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                 [x 1
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                   [x 1
  Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                                        [x 1
  IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, being revisedas OP 4.10)                                      [x 1
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                       [I
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                              [  X I
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                    [I
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                          [I

Although seven safeguard policies are triggered underthe project, most o f the triggers are of a
precautionary nature or associated with small-scale impacts. Annex 10provides details on each
o f the triggered safeguard policies and how they are addressed under the project. The two major
issues are involuntary resettlement and dam safety.

In line with national laws, decrees and World Bank OD 4.30 (since PCD took place before Jan.1,
2002, OD 4.30 is applicable policy, not OP 4.12) seven Resettlement Action Plans (RAPS)for
Phase Iactivities have been prepared, and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) has been
formulated to guide resettlement planning insubsequent phases during implementation. The
RAP and RPFhave been reviewed and cleared by the World Bank's East Asia Safeguards Unit.
Land acquisition andresettlement requirements for Phase 1were estimated based on feasibility
level engineeringdesigns and detailed land use data and surveys. VWRAP will cause temporary
loss o f landduringconstruction, and permanent loss o f land due to enlargement and

* By supporting the proposed project. the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas



                                                               19

wideningo fcanals. A distinction is made betweensevere impact such as relocation and loss o f
more than 20% o f household land, and marginal impacts with no relocation and less than 20% o f
land lost. The total amount o f affected land i s 272 ha, affecting an estimated 10,896 households.
Over 99% o fthe project affected households have less than 20% o ftheir landholdings affected,
and more than halfo f these households will only experience temporary land acquisition needed
for constructionpurposes. All feasible efforts to reduce resettlement impacts were adopted
duringproject preparation. Only 10households inthe Yen Lap subproject will need to be
relocated, and only 45 households will lose more than 20% o f their land. More details are
provided inAnnex IO.

Dam safety is an integral part of the project design.All o f the seven dams under the project were
inspected and evaluated by dam specialists from IDA as well as from MARD/EVN. The project
feasibility study contains detailed recommendations on physical and operational improvements
that will be financed by the project. Giventhe complexity o f the o f some o f the remedial works,
the Bank will require MARDto engage a panel of experts to review remedial works under the
project as well provide advice on the MARDnational dam safety program. The Bank supervision
team will also contain a qualified dam safety expert.

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

                  Issues                                          Status
     Fiduciary                         Draft Financial Management and Procurement manuals
                                       have been prepared, and finalization and adoption by
                                       MARDwill beacondition ofcredit effectiveness.
     Project Staffing and              MARDPMO and SIOs already established; PMUs will
     Consultants                       be formally established by effectiveness. Design
                                       consultants for 1'' year works have been selected, and
                                       technical assistance consultants will be mobilized
                                       shortly after effectiveness.
     Tender Documents                  MARDandEVNwill complete lSttender     year
                                       documents shortly after effectiveness, and no later than
                                       December 31, 2004.
      Disclosure Requirements          Bank and local disclosure reauirements have been met.
      Monitoring and Evaluation        Performance Indicators and M&E arrangements agreed
                                       w o n and tx-esentedinAnnex 3.
      Land Acquisition Plans           Resettlement Policy Framework acceptable to IDA has
                                       been approved by PrimeMinister's Office, and MARD
                                       has approved the Resettlement Action Plan (RAPs) for
                                       Phase 1; RAPs will be refined duringdetailed design
                                       None
   ~~~Co-Financing

VWRAP is a large investment project with approximately US$l50million inworks and goods.
The project will be implementedinthree phases. Phase Iwill include dams, main canals and
20% o f the command areas inComponent 1 (referred to as "pilot areas"); Hoa BinhDam
instrumentationinComponent 2; and Quang Hue River works from Component 3. Phases I1and
I11will each cover half the remaining work inthe project command areas. The rationale for



                                                   20

phasing i s to provide time to pilot new water control structures and new approaches to
participatory irrigation management before extendingthem to the entire project area.

InSeptember 2003, the GOVN approved the project pre-feasibility study which definedthe
project objectives, scope, and costs, and delegated MARD to approve the Feasibility Study (FS).
InJanuary 2004, MARDapproved the subproject feasibility studies prior to negotiations. The FS
package includes one summary report, and seven subproject feasibility studies, each o f which
has preliminary engineering designs and drawings; the FS package contains about 1,500 pages
and 150 drawings. Implementation following the FS stage, includes: i)procurement o f
engineering design consultants; ii)investigations and detailed design; iii)construction tendering;
and iv) construction.

The draft Vietnam Country Readiness Criteria recommends that tender documents for first year
works beprepared by negotiations. Dam safety works under Component 1, with a total estimated
cost o f around US$10 million, have been selected as first years works under the Project.
MARD initiated detaileddesign for 1'' year works inearly 2004, shortly after the subproject
Feasibility Studies were approved, and will have construction tender documents ready by late
2004, with construction scheduled to start inmid-2005. EVNalso plans to have tender
documents for the Hoa Binhdam safety instrumentation contract, valued at approximately
US$l.lmillion, ready by the end o f 2004. For canal works under Component 1, MAFCD will
select engineering design consultants through the QCBS procurement process in2004, and the
consultants will undertake investigations, detailed design, and prepare tender documents
throughout 2005, with large-scale canal construction works slated to beginin2006. The
implementation schedule i s presented inmore detail inAnnex 6.

The project requires an exception from the Bank policy regarding the eligibility o f dependent
government owned agencies as defined inSection 1.10 (b) o f the Consultant Guidelines. The
MAFCD-dependent engineering companies contain the largest pool o f hydraulic engineers in
Vietnam, and their exclusion from consulting assignments could potentially result ina lack o f
qualified bidders during competitive procurement o f national consultants. The Bank's
Operational Procurement Review Committee (OPRC) has granted an exception to the Bank's
SOEpolicy to allow these firms to participate inBank-financedcontracts as sub-consultants,
provided the subcontract does not exceed 50% o f the total contract amount. OPRC has also
approved an exception for provincial engineering companies dependent on the provincial
government, provided the subcontract amount will not exceed 20% o f total contract amount.

World Bank policy on the hiringo f Government-owned Universities and Research Institutes i s
outlined inan Office Memorandum by Alfonso Sanchez, Director o f OCSPR, dated August 19,
1999. Under this policy, universities and research institutes are eligible for consulting
assignments under certain situations. The Project includes a contract for "irrigation
modemization training and participatory irrigation management support." OPRC has provided
clearance to sole source the MARD-affiliated Vietnam Institute o f Water Resources Research
(VIWRR) as the lead institute for this assignment. Giventhe importance o f language and local
knowledge to the assignment, a Vietnamese organization should take the lead role. The VIWRR
has unique and exceptional skills for the assignment with the requisite expertise inirrigation
modemization, participatory irrigation management, and research facilities. The involvement o f



                                                 21

the VIWRR i s critical to project implementation, and there are no obvious suitable alternatives
from the private sector.




                                                22

                            Annex 1: Country andSector Background
                VIETNAM WATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT

TheRole of Agriculture and Irrigation and Drainage (I&D)

The Vietnamese economy continues to exhibit strong growth, recording around 6% growth in
between 1993 and 2002, twice the regional average and inspite o f a regional economic crisis and
a global economic slowdown. Growth inthe agricultural sector has recently been more modest
at about 2% percent, and almost all o f this was due to the explosive expansion in shrimp
cultivation inthe southern coastal area. While rice production had soared from 20 million tons
in 1990to over 30 milliontons bythe end o fthe decade, rice output has stabilized. Growth in
2001 was strong incash crops such as coffee (5.5%), tea (18 YO),and cashews YO), however the
value o f export commodities was hurt by historically low world prices for rice, coffee, and
pepper. Mucho f the decline inrice output was due to a 2.4 percent reduction inlandarea under
rice cultivation, resulting from a shift o f land from rice into other cash crops and aquaculture.

Agriculture remains an undeniably important sector inVietnam. It still accounts for 23 percent
o f GDP, provides about one-quarter o f export earnings, and employs almost two-thirds o f the
labor force. Important crop exports include rice, coffee, rubber, and cashew. Exports o fblack
pepper,vegetables and fruits, and tea are smaller but growing rapidly. While NortWSouth
income disparities are shrinking, ruralhrban differences continue to grow. Almost 37% or the
rural population lives below the poverty line and many more livejust above it, including
members o f farm households with irrigation. This places a premium on increasing agricultural
productivity.

Between 1993 and 1998, agricultural income rose by 61% and was the main source ofpoverty
reduction inrural areas. This resulted mainly from the return o f land-use rights to farmers and
the freeingup o fprices as Vietnam progressed toward a socialist market economy. But future
growth inagriculture is expected to come largely from crop diversification and yield increases,
making the quality o f irrigation services, interms o f timeliness and reliability, o f central
importance. This marks a change from past emphasis on expanding the irrigated area, though
area growth will continue to some extent, and places a premium on effective infrastructure and
capable and responsive management.

Some 80 percent o f the cultivated area o f 7 million hectares inVietnam i s equippedwith
irrigation infrastructure, most o f which i s paddy land. O f 4 million hectares o fpaddy land,
approximately 3 million ha are within the command areas o f irrigation projects, but only about 2
million hectares are actually irrigated by gravity while the remaining area relies on farmers
pumping,or manually transferring, water from drainage canals or shallow groundwater, thereby
increasing production costs and reducing income. This "utilization gap" provides a rich
opportunity for increasing irrigation coverage without making large new investments.

A number o fproblems currently affect the irrigation and drainage sector inVietnam. They
include irrigation systems, which can serve only a fraction o f their design areas, water shortages
during summer months, persistent operating deficits inIrrigationManagement Companies
(IMC), lack o f transparency and accountability inmanagement and finance, an accumulating



                                                    23

backlog o f deferred maintenance, and inadequate investment funds for rehabilitation and new
construction. At the same time, the sector has many strengths and assets including developable
water resources, capable professionals and farmers, a strong government structure, a dynamic
agricultural sector, and a sincere desire for change and improvement. Bringingthese resources
to bear on the problems, aided by appropriate international assistance, i s the challenge.

I&DSectorInstitutionalArrangements

Irrigation and drainage development and management i s currently organized in a four-tiered
hierarchical structure that mirrors the structure o f civil administration: national, provincial,
district, and commune. Although each provinces organizes ina slightly different way, the general
role o f each level i s described below:

Central: At the central government level, the various MARDdepartments are responsible for
the overall policy framework, for the planning and prioritization o f new development, and for the
allocation o f inter-provincial water resources. Fundingo f large capital projects, including
investment for main canals o f large irrigation and flood control projects, i s largely carried out by
the central government. The Department o f Water Resources has the lead mandate for the
management o f water resources and hydraulic infrastructure.

Provincial Peoples Committees (PPCs) are responsible for the public irrigation systems within
                      '
their boundaries. Their functions include managingthe systems, setting Irrigation Service Fees
(ISF) based on national guidelines, determiningsubsidies for the irrigation sector and
investmentsinthe local infrastructure, and overseeing the work o fthe Provincial Departments o f
Agriculture andRural Development Service (DARD). The DARDs, through their irrigation
departments, are the provincial government arms with the overall responsibility for operating,
maintaining, and repairing public irrigation, drainage and flood control systems, and for survey,
design, and construction o f minor new works.

Provincial Irrigation (and Drainage) Management Companies (IMCs) exist at the provincial or
system level and operate under the supervision o f the Provincial Peoples Committees (PPC)
acting through the DARDs.IMCs are state owned enterprises that work for public benefits, and
the government will make up the deficits they incur. This "ask-give'' system removes the
organizational "incentive to perform" that normally comes with private sector operation.
Although nominally established as for-profit companies, breaking even i s rare and most
companies are partially funded by the PPC. IMCs are generally responsible for headworks and
main irrigation and drainage canals and control works that supply water to districts, which they
operate and maintain. They supervise the districts and IMEs and receive a portion o f the service
fees collected by them. I M C staffs are civil servants, subject to standard government service
rules and conditions.

District Irrigation Management Enterprises (IMEs) deliver water to communes and manage
canals, drains, and offtakes within their districts, particularly those serving more than one
commune. District stations sign contracts with communes for water delivery. They receive fees
from the communes, remitting a portion to the I M C and retaining the rest. They are accountable




                                                  24

both to the District Peoples Committee (DPC), through the District Agriculture and Rural
Development Service, and to the IMC.
Commune Irrigation Teams: Within the I M C systems, there are more than 10,000 agricultural
cooperatives, associations and groups providing water service. Irrigation Teams provide
irrigation and drainage services to farmers at the level o f the hamlet or "natural village." Hamlet
heads collect water fees for the cooperative or commune. An additional collection, separate from
that made under State mandate to pay for the activities o f the I M C and DS, i s made to support
the irrigation teams at the commune level.

I&D Sector Constraints

Financial: Irrigation investments accounted for about half o f the MARDbudget in 1997-8 and
about two-thirds of the ministry's capital budget. They also figure importantly inprovincial
budgets, accounting for about 10% o f total provincial investments over the last 5 years. Since
1996, the GOVN has reserved $120 Mannually from the state budget (including ODA sources)
to invest inirrigation and drainage schemes. Fundingfor new construction and for rehabilitation
and modernization have beenroughly equal, and i s provided on a grant basis. According to the
Ordinance on Exploitation and Protection of Hydraulic Works, subsidies to IMCs are
specifically mandated for (a) pumped drainage, (b) pumpedirrigation exceedingplannednorms,
(c) overhauling and upgrading I&D works, (d) fees which cannot be collected due to natural
disasters, and (e) rehabilitating I&D works destroyed by natural disasters. Costs o f normal
depreciation and replacement are also not recovered from beneficiaries. This tends to create a
short-term perspective on the part o f managers and farmers and to defer maintenance until it
becomes "overhauling and upgrading" at which time Government subsidies can be obtained.

Irrigation fees paid by farmers range from 2-5% o f rice production. However, only about half o f
the fees assessedare actually collected with the end result beingjust under halfo f annual O&M
costs, estimated at VND 1,200-1,500 billion (US$ 82-103 million), and only about 25% o f total
O&M costs including natural disaster mitigation and large-scale rehabilitation, are covered by
fee collections. Bothnominal and actual assessment rates are nevertheless highby regional
standards. Inaddition, irrigation fees are not the only payments to the public sector required o f
rural residents. Annual taxes paidby farmers inthe RedRiver Delta, for example, often amount
to 20 to 25% o f the value o f annual paddy production. Inaddition to the water fee, these include
the land tax and other taxes for housing, local road construction, health, labor insurance,
construction, new economic zones, and the police. Moreover, an additional 25% o f output goes
to paddyproduction costs (not including the water fee and own labor), meaning that only about
one-half o f output i s retained by the farmer. Calls to raise irrigation rates further must thus be
treated gingerly, as the burden on farmers i s already very high.

One fundamental problem with the fee assessment system, is that it is not done with respect to
the costs o f operation and maintenance incurred in a particular system but i s based on political
factors for an entire region. IfI&D operations are moved inthe direction o f true company-style
management, a complementary change inthe fee setting would be required. This would involve
setting fees inparticular systems on the basis o f actual costs o f operation, less the cost o f items
allocated to the public sector, such as regional drainage.




                                                  25

Institutional: The "Master Programme for Public Administration Reform" (PAR) effort was
approved by the Prime Minister in September 2001. The Master Programme highlights a number
of problems with the current public administration system, which, inits words, is "still heavily
influenced by the former centralized and subsidized bureaucratic management mechanism."
Among the problems highlightedinthe Master Programme, the following are highly relevant to
governance and management inthe irrigation sector:

        State management functions and responsibilities ina market-oriented economy are not
        yet clearly defined.
        Organizational structure o fpublic administration i s multi-layered, cumbersome,
        centralized, and compartmentalized.
        Appropriate financial mechanisms and policies for the operation o fpublic administration
        and public service delivery agencies do not exist.

Administrative reform i s clearly on the front bumer and has top-level attention, and the GOVN i s
paying particular attention to MARD. The separation o f public administrative functions from
service delivery functions i s a theme that runs strongly through the program. The fundamental
structure for functional separation is, in fact, inplace inVietnam with the Irrigation Management
Companies, however, the heavy influence o f "the former centralized and subsidized bureaucratic
management mechanism" has created perverse operating and financing practices that negate the
benefits which could be derivedfrom the "company" structure.

There are essentially two types o firrigation-related local organizations at the commune level,
agrarian cooperatives inthe north and cooperative groups inthe south. The core service provided
by most agrarian cooperatives is irrigation. This reflects, inpart, the importance o f irrigation as
a sharedproduction input. But it also reflects the lucrative nature o f the irrigation fee collection
concession which accompanies the authority to provide irrigation service. Irrigation service fees
provide the bulk of the income o f most cooperatives, and that income i s used to support both
irrigation service and other cooperative activities. There are some serious problems, though,
with this picture. First, although cooperatives typically retain about one-quarter o fthe fees they
collect, they bear only a small fraction, perhaps one-tenth, o f the total cost o f irrigation and
drainage service provision. They are thus not reimbursingI M C and district stations for their
costs, which results inIMCs typically losing money. Second, irrigation fee income is not all
used to operate and maintain irrigation facilities, but is diverted to other uses within the
cooperative. Deferred maintenance thus accumulates. Third, the commune government often
serves as the collection agent for irrigation fees and tends to use this income as general revenue
to the commune. Irrigation fees thus become general tax revenue rather than irrigation-specific
fees for service.

The agrarian cooperatives have a defacto monopoly on irrigation service provision (and
irrigation fee collection) at the commune level, and serve as an important source o f revenue to
the commune. Organized along administrative lines, their span o f control does not correspond to
irrigation system boundaries, and their accountability to irrigators i s sometimes limited. They do
offer an existing structure at the commune level which can be employed as an element o f an
improved irrigation management set-up in some circumstances. It contains enough variability
and sufficient handicaps, however, it i s not useful to see the agrarian cooperatives as the sole,



                                                   26

optimal, or universal local-level organizational structure for managing irrigation and drainage
services.

 "Cooperative groups" are established on the basis o f a contractual agreement among members,
agreeing to contribute assets or labor to carry out a particular task. These groups are not required
to maintain a formal internal structure but can be represented ineconomic dealings by their
elected leader. They are required to register with the commune government. Cooperative groups
are more lightly regulated by the State than cooperatives, and receive no public financial
assistance, as do cooperatives. They are more nearly "private" than "public" organizations,
Cooperative groups are found primarily inthe south, where local authorities have been more
tolerant, and even supportive, o f them. Groups form for a wide variety o f purposes and take on
different organizational forms. The loose structure o fcooperative groups, however, often means
that they are ill-equipped to manage essential public services such as irrigation and drainage.

Technical: The low percentage o f the command area, typically 50 percent, which is under
contract betweenthe I M C and the user organizations (typically user cooperatives inthe South
and agrarian cooperatives inthe North) indicates the highlevel o f under-performance inthe
sector. Many schemes were built inthe 1970-1980swhen construction equipment was not
adequate to meet highquality standards o f construction. The tail areas o f some o f the sub-
projects do not receive any water through the canal system. Some main canals have low
efficiencies  because o f local leakage and seepage losses due to poor construction standards. The
lowest level o f some distribution systems have not been completed. On secondary and tertiary
canals, many control gates are now either missingor not functional. Many areas cannot be
irrigated because o f lack o f tertiary canals and excessive losses inunlined lower systems. In
addition, some storage reservoirs are not operated to their normal design water level due to dam
safety concerns. Consequently, the volumes o f water available irrigation during the dry season is
often substantially reduced.

All irrigation projects inVietnam were designed to be controlled bymanually operated gated
cross regulators and intakes. Without exception, all the gates are o f underflow type. World
experience indicates that these gated systems are the most difficult to operate resulting in
unsteady flow conditions. Water delivery i s often inequitable and unreliable. Operators are not
able to make frequent adjustments to respond to sudden changes inwater demand duringthe wet
season. The situation i s commonly exacerbated inVietnam by the absence o f access roads along
the main and primary canals and the outdated communications systems. Furthermore, the
systems were designed to be operated at full capacity without consideration for operation at less
than full supply. Some canals may have to runat full supply to deliver water to the next level.
Eventhe best-qualified managers and operators would not be able to managethese systems to
the highest standards. The operational deficiencies o f the irrigation schemes i s partly
compensated by the hard work o f the farmers who capture the irrigation water losses from any
water source inthe command area: drains, groundwater, local ponds and rivers. However, that
situation i s far from acceptable. First, the farmers have to pay the pumpingcosts and are
depending on water sources o fpoor quality and low reliability. Second, the financial resources o f
the IMCs are insufficient to meet the recurrent costs since water fees are only due for the areas
that have been"contracted" with the user organizations. The result i s the vicious cycle o f
inadequate maintenance and deterioration of the infrastructure.



                                                   27

Dam Safety: According to MARD, around 750 large and medium-sizeddams over 10 meters
exist inVietnam. Most are earth dams built during from 1970-1990 when Vietnam suffered from
technical and financial constraints. Consequently, many dams were constructed with inferior
designs and poor construction quality. Provincial IMCs are generally responsible for dam
operation, but dam safety management i s usually inadequate. Moreover, MARD does not have a
national regulatory unit to ensure that IMCs follow proper dam safety procedures. Typical
problems can be summarized into the three areas: (i)   inadequate spillway capacity subject to
overtopping, (ii)  poor construction quality control (materials, compactionprocedure, etc.)
resulting instructural deformation o f dam bodies (cracks, settlement, sloughing, etc.) and (iii)
inappropriate structural design, such as internal concrete structure inside embankment bodies
(spillway and irrigation intake), subject to cracking and settlement o f the concrete structure and
loosing o f the fill materials incontact areas.

Electricity o f Vietnam (EVN) owns and operates a number o f large hydropower dams. The
designand operation o fthese dams are usually generally acceptable due to their more recent
constructionand revenue generating importance for the company. There are still, however, a
numbero foperating and dam safety management issues that should be addressed by EVN. O f
particular importance i s Hoa Binh, which i s Vietnam's largest reservoir (10 billion cubic meters)
and located only 50 kms (75 kms earlier!) upstream from Hanoi. Hoa Binhi s a multi-purpose
reservoir operated by EVNyear-round, but managed by MARD duringthe flood season due to
its important role in flood control inthe Red River Delta. Hoa Binhwas built inthe late-1980s
with technical and financial assistance from the former Soviet Union. Although there are no
pressingstructural dam safety problems, the instrumentation and monitoring system for dam
safety i s outdated and needs to be modernized.

GOWStrategyfor Addressing Sector Constraints:

GOVNpolicy places highpriority on key sector issues such as irrigation modernization, dam
safety, and improved water resources management. The overall "Strategy o f Socio-Economic
Development 2001-2010" presented by the Central Committee at the gthNational Congress
highlighted the importance these issues. One o f the major objectives is "to speed up agricultural
and rural industrialization and modernization geared toward forming a large-scale commodity
agriculture relevant to market demands and ecological conditions o f individual regions."
Modemization or irrigation and drainage systems will result inmore reliable, efficient, and
equitable water services, which i s indispensable for agricultural modernization.

The Socio-Economic Development Plan aims "to continue developing and basically complete
the water conservancy system for protection from salinization, freshwater conservation and
flood control, ensuring safe and proactive irrigation and drainage for agricultural production
(including industrial crops and aquaculture) and the livelihood of farmers." Flood control,
management, and reducing dam safety risks are also outlined inthe Plan. The 1999 Law on
Water Resources calls for the integratedmanagement o fwater resources along hydraulic
boundaries, which lays the legal foundation for bothriver basin management and local irrigation
management based on hydraulic rather than administrative boundaries.




                                                 28

MARDhas pursuedoverall GOVNobjectives through a number o fdecrees. The 2001
"Ordinance and Protection o f Irrigation Works" stresses that IMCs shall operate according to the
"public utility regime" and promotes the concept o f "water user cooperatives." Currently, two
draft MARDdecrees on the establishment o fwater user group organizations and establishment
o f dam safety unit are under consideration and will be the legal buildingblocks for successful
VWRAP implementation.

Vietnam has a number o f strengths on which to build an improved irrigation and drainage sector.
A number o fmacro-level reform efforts provide a strong impetus for change. Another strength
i s the formal existence of the I M C corporate form. The formal separation o f the service provider
(the IMC) from the regulator and resource manager (MAFWDARDS) is an important hallmark
o f a maturing water economy. The country also has a carefully considered new water law that
establishes a numbero f important principles for the future, including the use o f hydrologic units
as the management basis for water resources. Some important relationships, such as between the
IMCs and the communes, are governed by formal contracts rather than informal agreements,
which provide a sound base for future improvements. Vietnam has also accumulated some
experience with creating WUGs and irrigation modernization, andhas hosted several
international conferences and workshops on these topics.

Finally, the country has a productive and diversifying agriculture operated by capable,
hardworking, and entrepreneurial farmers. I t also has many committed, knowledgeable, and
experienced professionals ingovernment service, a number o f whom are far-sighted, fonvard-
thinkingprofessionals who can lead change when the time is right.All o fthese factors taken
together provide a strong base for change and improvement inthe water sector.




                                                  29

          Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and other Agencies
                VIETNAM WATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT


1             Sector Issue                 ProjectIAreaof
                                           Concentration           (Bank-financed7rojectsonly)
                                                                  Implementation Development
 World Bank-financed                                               Progress(IP)       Objective
                                                                                        (DO)
 Mekong Delta Water Resources        higation; Water Resources
 Development Approved: FYOO;         Management; Rural Water             S                S
 Closing: FY006                      SUDDlV
 IrrigationRehabilitation Project
 Approved: FY95; ClosedFY03          higation                            S
 Dau Tieng IrrigationProject
 Approved: FY79; Closed FY88         higation and Dam                    __               --
                                     Construction
'OtherAgenceFrancaisede
        developmentagencies
 ADBi
                                     Irrigation and Flood Control; Watershed Degradation; Water
                                     Management


                                     Irrigation; Water Management


                                     Irrigation; Disaster Management


                                     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
                                     Irrigation




                                              30

                        u
                        3




                                           M




    0 0 0    0     0    7 0   13 0 0  0



                                  h
                 a                +0

              a , @
                 c                 8
                                   Ei
                                   cd
                                   3 *




Y
v1
1
in
2d

     M
     E:
     .3




      n
      Q)
      M

    S Y
      E

---I---
    zs

      .e
      %
       m

2
4
Z
>
r)




      m
      m

          d-
          m




c
m
0    I

                            Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
               VIETNAM WATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT

Project Summary

The Vietnam Water Resources Assistance Project supports the development o fnational
programs for irrigation modemization and dam safety; it also beginsthe long-term process o f
integrated development inthe Thu Bon River Basin. Total estimated project costs are
US$176.2 million with the following four components:

    Component 1: Irrigation Modernization (US$154.7 million)
    Component 2: Dam Safety Management (US$10.2 million)
    Component 3: Thu Bon Basin Development (US$2.6 million)
    Component 4: Project Management and Capacity Building(US$8.7 million)

Project implementationwill take place inthree phases. Feasibility studies and preliminary
engineeringdesignshave been completed for PhaseIo f works which cover: Component 1-
dams, main canals, and 20% o f the command areas; Component 2-Hoa Binhdam
instrumentation; and Component 3-Quang Hue river works. Duringimplementation, designs
for the remaining 80% o f the command areas under Component 1, and the dams to be
identified under Component 2 will be undertaken. The rationale for only starting with 20%
percent o f the command area inComponent. 1, the so-called "pilot areas", i s to have an
opportunity to test new types o f water control infrastructure and participatory irrigation
management approaches. Lessons leamed inthe pilot areas will be applied inthe rest o f the
command area during implementation. Phases I1and I11will each cover halfo f the remaining
80% o f works inpraject Components 1and 2 - Irrigation Modernization and Dam Safety
Management.

Because the project includes a broad range of reforms and the need to progressively
introduce modem infrastructure and management, the project duration i s estimated to be
seven years starting in mid-2004. The longer duration project will also help to minimize
service disruptions due to the intermittent nature o f canal construction works.

Project Description by Component

Component I:Irrigation Modernization (USSI54.7 million)

Component 1i s the largest investment component and will cover six irrigation sub-projects
listed below. These six were selected for modernization and dam safety improvements as a
priority among the 75 irrigation schemes existing inVietnam. The command area o f these
schemes i s 130,966 hectares, about 5 % o f the total command area inVietnam. Works inthe
selected projects are inpoor condition having been designedandbuilt two decades ago,
shortly after the unification o f Vietnam with outdated technology, poor construction quality
and little attention to proper operations and maintenance (O&M). The project will fund the




                                               35

                                                                                             Current IMC
                                                    Command         Total Reservoir        Collection Area         Cost US$




Notes:
 1. DauTieng Excludes Chu Chi in HCMC (1 1,000 ha), includesTan Hung (10,700 ha) and excludes future expansion
2. Collection areas are defined as the areaover which IMCcollects either full or partial fees in the peak irrigation season


Present Situation and Modernization Objectives

Scheme performance i s low with typically only 50 percent o f the area receiving full service,
definedby a contract between Irrigation Management Companies (IMCs) and Water User
Groups (WUGs). The tail ends o f some o f the sub-projects do not receive any water through
the canal system. Some main canals have low efficiencies because o f local leakage and
seepage losses due to poor construction. On secondary and tertiary canals most control gates
are now either missingor not functional. Many areas cannot be irrigated because o f lack of
tertiary canals and excessive losses inunlined lower systems. Inaddition, some storage
reservoirs (Da Ban and Yen lap) are not operated to their design water level because o f safety
concerns; consequently, the volumes o f water available for irrigation during the dry season
are substantially reduced.

Traditionally, canals inVietnam were designed to be controlled by manually operated gated
cross regulators and intakes. Without exception, all the gates are o f underflow type.
Experience indicates that these gated systems are the most difficult to operate reliably,
resulting inunsteady flow conditions. The result i s water delivery is often inequitable and
unreliable. The situation i s exacerbated by the common absence o f access roads along the
main and primary canals and the outdated or missingmeans o f communication.
Furthermore, the systems by design are operated at full capacity with no flexibility to operate
at variable flow rates. The systems are difficult to manage and result in low operational
efficiencies. These operational deficiencies are partly compensated by the hard work o f the
farmers who capture the irrigation water losses from drains, groundwater, local ponds and
rivers. However, this situation is not acceptable because it forces farmers to pump this water
at their cost and they are dependent on water o f poor quality and low reliability. Poor
system operations resulting inless fully commanded, "contacted" areas impacts dramatically
on the revenueraised by the IMCs. Thus there are insufficient funds to meet recurrent costs
since water fees are only collected for the contracted area, which i s typically about halfo f the
command area. The result i s a vicious cycle o f inadequate O&M, deteriorationo f the service
levels and deteriorating infrastructure. A simple rehabilitation o f the physical infrastructure
"as it was" will not be enough to meet the revised objectives o f the project.


                                                              36

The component therefore aims to invest ina broad range o f interventions that will result in
irrigation systems that:

P Are more flexible, reliable, and equitable water distribution
P Better utilize reservoir storage capacities
P Result inareductioninseepagelosses from the canal system through canal lining
P Increase the conveyance capacity ofmaincanals for future demands
P Complete the canal distribution systems at the secondary andtertiary levels

To meet these aims, the project will fund the following specific activities.

Modernization of Water Control

A systematic study o f the possibilities for usingdownstream control was undertaken during
project preparation. Downstream control presents the advantage o f being able to respond
quickly to any change indemand and i s mostly used for long, gently sloping main canals.
Upstream control requires the complex preparation o f a demand schedule taking into
consideration a number o f estimated hydraulic and agro-meteorological factors. The Dau
Tiengmain canals, and some o f the largeprimary canals, are already presently operated
under manual downstream control. Operation o f the main canals inPhuNinhwill be
converted from upstream to downstream control. All other subprojects will continue to use
upstream control.

Inthe DauTieng and PhuNinhschemes, gates along the main canals and primary canals
under downstream control, will be motorized and automated through the use o f
programmable local controllers (PLC). For the other subprojects, upstream water level
control o f the primary and secondary canals will be improved where possible through the
modification o f existing gated regulators into composite regulators consisting o f long crested
weirs associated with undershot gates. All large regulators and off-takes will be motorized,
and where appropriate fitted with automatic local control. Off-takes will be equipped either
with conventional gates associated with flumes for flow measurements, modular gates also
(Le., baffle distributors), or some other type o f flow measurement device. Operation o f the
Dau Tieng main system will be improved through the installation o f a Supervisory Control
and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system, providing remote supervision only. Ifthe Dau
Tieng experiment is successful, other subprojects may also install SCADA systems.

Canal Lining and Strengthening

The project will provide for lining or strengthening o f selected sections o f main, primary,
secondary and tertiary canals. Strengthening consists inprotection o f the canal slopes to
avoid erosion or slumpingdue to heavy rainfall and high groundwater level, and will be
accomplished with concrete panels or other forms o f slope protection. Canal liningwill be
provided for different purposes: i)to reduce seepage rate in semi-permeable or highly
permeable soils and/or ii)to increase the hydraulic capacity o f existing canals where
necessary. Trapezoidal secondary and tertiary canals will be replaced either by rectangular



                                                37

sections built inbrick or stone masonry covered with mortar or by parabolic sections made o f
pre-cast elements.

Management Modernization

Enhanced I M C management capacity, greater financial autonomy, and increased water user
participation are key outcomes o f the irrigation management modemization process The
project will therefore provide technical assistanceto each IMCs to develop and implement
plans for proper management, operation and maintenance o f the schemes. The plan will
address the following issues: i)organization structure; ii)system operation; iii)maintenance;
iv) administration; v) financial management; vi) participatory irrigation management; and
vii) monitoring and evaluation.

Participatory Irrigation Management

Under the project, independent W G s will be formed and trained on water distribution,
maintenance and financial management. Water measurement devices will be installed at
transaction points between IMCs and WUGs, and the standard I M C contract will be revised
to include volumetric water service delivery obligations. This intervention will support and
enhance the generally strong local irrigation management arrangements inVietnam, albeit
based on the commune administrative structure. MARDhas experimented with different
types o f water user groups (WUGs) organized around hydraulic boundaries. Although the
WUG experiments have been generally successful at improving water distribution,
establishing independent organizations outside o f the normal govemmental structures i s still
uncommon. Nevertheless, MARDi s committed to implementing WUG reform on a much
larger scale under the project, and i s preparing enabling govemmental decrees for this
purpose. The WUGs are expected to federate at the primary canal and scheme level, and
have formal representation on the I M C Board o f Directors. Contractual arrangements
betweenIMCs and WUGs based on volumetric should make the IMCs more accountable for
their service performance and improve the efficiency o f use o f irrigation water by farmers.
Volumetric pricing is considered too complex and contentious for use inVietnam at this
stage and will not be part o f the reforms.

Dam Safety Improvements

This component will fund the dam safety infrastructure improvement works for the six dams
that are the respective headworks for the irrigation subproject. Component 2 will address
national dam safety management issues, including the management issues at these six dams.
The following table gives a summary o f the infrastructure improvements with approximate
costs. For the K e Go and Cam Son subprojects, dam repairs will include necessary provisions
for mini-hydropower plants (Le., less than 5 MW), but the IMCs incombination with private
investors will finance the hydropower plants. Management improvements are described
underthe dam safety management sections.




                                                38

Dau Tieng Dam ($3.3 million):                          Cam Son Dam (50.8 million)
    Enlarge spillway capacity by addition of an           Rehabilitate the spillway gate
    emergency spillway.                                   Add emergency spillway
    Repair leaking diversion conduit                      Repair of the upstream control gates of the intake
    Repair seals spillway gates and stoplogs              conduit.
    Rehabilitate the dyke sections                        Stop leakage in the penstock
    Maintain access road, location markers, display of    Add access road to the dam site
    gate operation rules, etc                             Install piezometers
                                                          Install location markers, staff gauge, telephone,
                                                          operator, etc.


KeGo Dam ($1.5 million)                                Da Ban Dam ($4.0 million)
    Stop leakage of the outlet conduit,                   Repair of upstream control gates,
    Enlarge the spillway capacity by means of an          Stop leakage of outlet conduit,
    emergency spillway,                                   Enlargeof the spillway capacity,
    Repair upstream slope of saddle dams 1 and 3,         Repair of upstream slope protection,
    Upgrade access road to main and saddle dams.          Upgradeaccess road
    Install hoist motor                                   Install communication equipment and power
    Install piezometers,                                  Add motor for hoist,
                                                          Install piezometers


Yen Lap Dam ($1.7 million)                            Phu Ninh ($0.2 million)
    Enlarge the spillway capacity by means of an          Renovate existing emergency spillway for Long Son

    emergency spillway,                                   Saddle Dam#3

    Install an electric hoist on the spillway,
    Repair guard gate and control gate,
    Repair stoplogs,



Component 2: Dam Safety Management ($I million)       0.2

There are around 750 large and medium-sized dams inVietnam, and the project will help
improve national dam safety management through MARD and EVN-Hoa Binhdam safety
programs. The Project will help establish an institutional mechanism for the coordination o f
dam safety activities, laws and regulations inVietnam, inparticular MARD- and EVN-
related dam safety programs. Inaddition, VWRAP will support both MARD and EVN dam
safety programs as follows:

M A R D Dam Safety Program ($9.0 million): Inaddition to the 6 dams upgraded under
Component 1, $7.0 Mwill be reserved for upgrading to-be-identified small and medium
sized dams during implementation. Approximately $2.0 million will be used for institutional
strengthening, including training to assist inthe start-up o f a MARD National Dam Safety
Unit (DMU)to take responsibility for a system o fdam inspections, and for development and
enforcement o f laws and regulations. The specific functions of the DMUwill cover all
MARD-affiliated dams and include aspects such as:
    >>   supervision o f dam safety inspections;
         enforcement o f dam construction and dam management laws and regulations;


                                                      39

      P capacity buildingof dam owners, dam operators anddam inspectors;
      P establishment andmaintenance of a dams database; and
      P dissemination ofinformation on dams inVietnam;

EVN Dam Safety: ($1.2 million): The project will finance upgrades to the dam safety
instrumentation ($1.2 million) at Hoa Binhdam. Hoa Binhi s the largest reservoir inVietnam
with a storage capacity o f 10billion cubic meters. The reservoir is located 75 kmupstream o f
Hanoi on the D a River, which i s the largest tributary o f the Red River.The dam was
completed inthe early 1990s, and constructed with technical and financial assistance from
the former Soviet Union. International and World Bank experts have inspected the dam and
found no obvious structural problems, although the spillway i s somewhat undersized and the
instrumentation i s outdated. Although the dam i s owned and operated by EVN, duringthe
flood season the Central Committee for FloodProtection, chaired by MARD, i s responsible
for reservoir operation decisions, thus making Hoa Binha truly multi-purpose reservoir.

Component 3: Thu Bon Basin Development ($2.6 million)

The project will fund the highpriority Quang HueRiverFlow Stabilizationworks ($1.6
million) and the feasibility studies andpreparation work (US $1 million) for other priority
projects to be identified inthe ThuBon River Basin Master Plan, which could be considered
for follow-up financing by the World Bank. The GOVN conducted a Central Coast basin
screening process in2000 for eight basins. The Thu Bonbasinwas selected as the priority
basinbased on the projected growth o f water demand from various sectors and the
complexity o f water resource management issues. The Vu Gia - Thu Bon river basin i s the
eighth largest basin inVietnam, with a catchment area o f 10,500 km2.The basin covers the
provinces o f Quang Nam, D aNang and Kon Tum with over 2 million habitants. The
Government o f Vietnam plans to develop this basin into one o f the three economic pillars in
the country. A master plan study, the Thu Bon IntegratedRiver Basin Plan for Water
Resources Development and Management (TIBP), was then undertaken as part o f VWRAP
preparation, and identified the two priority subprojects that could be funded under the
project. These were: i)PhuNinhIrrigationModernization (Component 1) and ii)Quang
HueRiver Flow Stabilizationunder this component.

The Quang Hue River connects the main stems o f the Thu Bon River and the Vu Gia River,
approximately 30 kms upstream of Da Nang. The Vu Gia river flows to the city o f D aNang
and provides the city's raw water supply as well as 10,000 ha o f irrigated land along the
river. The Thu Bon River flows to the ancient town o f H o i An which i s an important tourist
center. Duringa tropical storm in2000, a new connecting channel was formed which
diverted most o f the Vu Gia water towards H o i An and the Thu Bon, thus depriving D aNang
o f its vital water supply. Local authorities constructed a temporary structure to divert the
water back to Da Nang, but this was quickly damaged. The project will finance a more robust
river training scheme to keep sufficient water flow flowing to DaNanginthe medium-term,
as well as explore other possible long-term solutions to D a Nang's water supply.




                                                40

Component 4: Project Management and Capacity Building ($8.7 million)

VWRAP i s a complex project which requires significant technical assistance and capacity
buildingto successfully introduce modem water management concepts into Vietnam. The
project will therefore finance:

TechnicalAssistance ($3.5 million): MARDwill contract international and domestic experts
inirrigationmodernization, dam safety, procurement, environmental management, training,
and resettlement to assist MARD,provincial authorities, and local engineering and
constructioncompanies duringproject implementation.

Training and Participatory Irrigation Management ($2.4 million): The objective i s to
support the transformation and improved performance o f the irrigation sector institutions and
facilitate adoption by the sector o f a strongmanagement and service orientation. This would
be achieved by the development o f new skills and knowledge through the academic studies
and training o f staff o f the operating departments at both central and provincial levels. At the
same time, a Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) program would: i)create institutions
representing stakeholders and farmers o f each irrigation system, allowing IMCs and PMUs to
discuss with and consult stakeholders on major system policies and project implementation
issues; ii)develop representative and efficient water user associations inthe command areas
of the irrigation systems, receiving bulk water delivery services fi-om IMCs and providing
services to farmers; iii)provide a third level o f training to WUGs and W A S ,farmer group
representatives and lower-level irrigators, delivered by adequately trained staff o f IMCs and
provincial and district; iv) build on the experience o f the project inparticipatory irrigation
management to develop national policies and guidelines. The training and capacity building
program would consist o f four activities:

1. National (Strategic) training
2. Provincial and Irrigation Management Company training
3. Participatory Irrigation Management
4. Research and development

Incremental Operating Costs: ($2.8 million): The project will fund incremental operating
costs associated with MARD Central Project Office for project management costs, including
travel costs, per diems, accounting software, necessary computer equipment, workshops, etc.
Inaddition, eachprovincial management office will beprovidedwith essential equipment
necessary to manage and upgrade their schemes, including motorcycles, computers, software,
and travel budgets for visiting other schemes and for conferences/workshops inVietnam.




                                                41

-a
d
I

d

                          Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
              VIETNAM WATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT


The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD)will be the primary executing
agency for the project. Electricity o f Vietnam (EVN) will be the executing agency for the
US$1.2 million Hoa Binhcomponent. Both MARD and EVNhave extensive experience with
executing implementingIDA-financed projects. The organizational chart for the project i s
presented below, along with a description o f the roles o f different agencies. A project
implementationplan has prepared which provides further on implementation arrangements.


                                                                :
             Figure 1: Organizational Chart                     IZDesign
                                                                    ' ; P T e Z o n S u i t Z : -
                                                                IConstructionManagement              7II
                                                                ISocial&Environmental                 8
                                                                L--,,,,
                                                                  Training & Social Mobilization I    I



                                                                       MARDSlOs

                                  Modernization
                                  Task Force                          For DauTieng: System
                                                                            5
           World Bank                                      -ManagementCommittee
                     ~




                        LeadMARD               Project
                                            Management  __
                            Department
                                 --   '        Office                                              DOSTE
                                               (CPO)
                                                                          Provincial                 DARD
         MARD Steering                                     -'             People's          -
         Committee                                                       Committee
                                           ITechnicaVPM I                                            DPH

                                           ISocial                            I                        ---
                                                                                                     IMC
                                           ITraining
                                             EnvironmentalI
                                            -,--I                   Provincial Project             1'        1
                                                           -..---,      Management          -    ,IContractor I

                                                                              c
                                                                                                      1

                                                                  IIG Z j e 7 ~ o G l t Z s : -        I
                                                                    Design
                                                                    ConstructionManagement             II
                                                                    Social& Environmental              I

                                                                  I
                                                                  I Training&Social Mobilization II
                                                                  ' - - _ _ _ _ -



MARDwill e tablish ahigh-lev 1Project Steering Committee, chairedby a MARDVice
Minister,with representatives from the Ministry o fPlanningand Investment, Ministryo f
Finance, State Bank o f Vietnam, and representatives from the respective Provincial People's
Committee. A special Irrigation Modernization Task Force has also been established to
provide technical and policy guidance on Vietnam's overall irrigation and dam safety
modernization program.




                                                    43

MARDproject management functions takes place at various levels. A MARDVice Minister
has overall responsibility for the project, and the two key MARDagencies, the Department
o f Water Resources (DWR) and the Central Project Office (CPO) report to the Vice Minister,
The DWR is mandated to provide policy, planning, andmanagement oversight o firrigation
schemes inVietnam. Inconjunction with other MARDdepartments, such as the Planning
Department and Construction Department, the DWR will review and recommend for MARD
approval tender documents, large contracts, and irrigation management plans.DWR will be
the lead MARDdepartment for overall project supervision and monitoring, and aDeputy
Director o f DWR i s chairperson o f the IrrigationModemization Committee.

MARD'sCentral Project Office (CPO) is responsible for management ofall foreign-financed
water resource projects inVietnam, including ADB, JBIC, and World Bank-assisted projects.
The CPO has a staff o f managers, engineers, safeguard specialists, procurement specialists,
and accountants who are familiar with both GOVN and donor requirements. A VWRAP
Project Management Office (PMO) will be established within the CPO to provide overall
project management functions, and liaison betweenimplementing agencies, the World Bank,
and MARD departments.

Implementationo f the project will take place through two mechanisms. MARD sub-
implementation offices (SIOs) will be responsible for complex dam safety or inter-provincial
works. MARDhas a network o f SIOs organized on a regional basis to implement large
projects financed by the central government. The irrigation schemes are owned and operated
byprovincial governments, andprovincial project management units (PMUs) will be
established to implement canal improvement works. The PMUs will be composed primarily
o f staff from the provincial Department o f Agriculture and Rural Development (DARD) and
the IrrigationManagement Companies, and will beunderthe authority o fthe Provincial
People's Committees (PPC). MARD's SIOs and the provincial PMUs will be responsible for
most procurement and all construction supervision activities, and operate under the general
MARDproject management framework. There will be seven PMUs and four SIOs involved
inthe project, all o fwhom operate under the general supervision ofthe PMO, as follows:




The PMO will be responsible for coordinating and approving the annual P M U and S I 0 plans;
procurement planning; annual budgeting; procurement under ICB and QCBS methods;



                                                44

training; managing the Special Account; processing disbursement applications; monitoring
the implementation o fRAP, EMDP and EAP; managingtechnical assistance andtraining
services; and reporting and liaison with IDA.

The International Cooperation Department o f EVNwill be responsible for the Hoa Binh
subcomponent, and will work closely with the EVNHoa Binhmanagement office. Given the
small size o f the EVNcomponent a separate special account i s not necessary. As there will
be only one large turnkey contract (approximately US$l.lmillion), and perhaps one or two
small consultancy contracts, the direct payment procedure for the EVNsubcomponent can be
used. Since EVNis a commercial enterprise, MOF will enter into a subsidiary loan
agreement with EVN for the subcomponent.




                                             45

                                  Attachment 1to Annex 6

                                 ImplementationReadiness

Introduction: VWRAP i s a large investment project with approximately US$150 million in
works and goods. InSeptember 2003, the GOVN approved the project pre-feasibility study
which defined the project objectives, scope, and costs, and delegated MARDto approve the
feasibility study (FS). InJanuary 2004, MARD approved the FS prior to negotiations. The FS
package includes one summary report, and seven subproject feasibility studies, each o f which
has detailed preliminary engineering designs and drawings.

Implementationo f civil works following the FS stage, includes: i)procurement o f
engineeringconsultants; ii)investigations and detailed design; iii)tendering; and iv)
construction. The development o f tender documents, including consultant procurement,
typically takes around 1year. Since GOVN does not have the resources to do detailed design
work for projects that have yet to be approved, and the subproject feasibility studies were
only approved inJanuary, 2004, much o fthis work i s included as a start-up/year one activity
to be financed by the Credit and the lengtho f the Credit has been extended to seven years.
Design, investigations, and construction management will cost around US$6.5 million.

Project Phases: VWRAP will be implemented inthree phases. Phase Iwill include dams,
main canals and 20% o f the command areas inComponent 1;Hoa BinhDam instrumentation
inComponent 2; and Quang HueRiver works from Component 3. PhasesI1andI11will each
cover half the remaining work inthe project command areas. The rationale for phasing i s to
provide time to pilot new water control structures andnew approaches to participatory
irrigation management before extending them to the entire project area. Major
implementation reviewscomparable to mid-term reviews will be conducted by the Bank in
years 3 and 5 to review phasing.

Project Implementation Plan: To guide implementation, a detailed project implementation
plan (PIP) has been agreed which addresses organizational, financial management and
procurement issues, and implementation planning. PIP will be finalized before effectiveness.
This Annex provides an overview o f the implementation schedule, with a focus on the first
two years. A graphic summary o f the PIP starting in2004 i s presented below. The PIP itself
contains a GANNT chart showing the schedule o f activities ingreater detail.

Financial management, procurement and environment: Draft final procurement and
financial management manuals were cleared by the Bank prior to negotiations. These will be
finalized and approved by the Bank, MARD, and the Ministry o f Finance before
effectiveness. The Project EIA has been cleared by the Bank and approved by the Ministry of
Natural Resources and Environment (MONRE).

Project Management: Key personnel for all project management units, including DWR,
PMO, SIOs, and PMUs have been identified and involved inproject preparation. The PMUs
will be formally established only after negotiations. A period o f intensive management
training for the PMO, SIOs and PMUs will take place prior to effectiveness as outlined inthe



                                              46

financial and procurement action plans inPAD Annexes 7 and 8, respectively. Terms o f
reference for key consultancies, including technical assistance, were prepared at appraisal.

Dam Safety Start-up Works: Dam safety activities inComponent 1have been selected as
the priority start-up works underVWRAP becausethey: i)mainly involve standard civil
works; ii)require no land acquisition; and iii)will be implemented by existing and
experienced MARD SIOs. Annex 8 contains a detailed two-year procurement plan for these
activities. Intotal, there will be eight constructionpackages covering seven dams, with an
estimated total cost o f approximately US$lO million.

Terms o f reference for consulting services to prepare detailed designs for each o f the eight
packages were prepared at appraisal, and MARDhas used the CQ selection method to select
the consultants quickly. Tendering for works should be beginning inmid - to late-2004, with
construction starting in early 2005. Consulting services can be cost-shared retroactively, as
detailed inAnnex 8. A dated covenant i s included inthe D C A requiring all tender documents
for start-up works to be preparedby December 2004.

Irrigation Modernization Works: Lrrigation modernization is more complex than dam safety
works from an engineering and social perspective. The first step will be to mobilize a project-
wide Technical Assistance (TA) team immediately after effectiveness. The TA team will
assist MARDinpreparing TORs and procuring consultants for detailed design. Usingthe
QCBS method o f selection, the consultants will be mobilized by early-2005 and tender
documents completed by mid-2005. Land acquisition will be managed by provincial
governments, starting as soon as detailed designs are completed. Construction will beginby
late-2005.

Dam Safety: MARD's dam safety unit (DSU) will be operational by end-2005. The DSU's
first tasks will be to assist the Irrigation Management Companies (IMCs) under Component 1
to prepare dam safety management plans. The DSUwill also identify additional dams to be
upgraded under VWRAP, and support the design and implementation o f the remedial works.
The DSU, with VWRAP financial and technical assistance, will develop a dam safety
regulatory system for dams managed by MARD.

Thu Bon Basin: The TA team will help MARD to prepare TORs and procure consultants
for engineering design o f the Quang Hue river works (project Component 3). Usingthe
QCBS method o f selection, the consultants will be mobilized inearly-2005 and tender
documents completed by mid-2005. Tendering works will take approximately 4-5 months
and constructionwill start in2006. Once the Quang Hue river works are inprogress,
Component 3 will focus on wider issues o f Thu BonRiver basinplanning and management,
and preparation o f feasibility studies for other highpriority works.

DisbursementRates: Disbursement will be low inthe first two years o f implementation
when consultants are selected, detaileddesigns made, and civil works tendered. Inthe outer
years, disbursements should increase rapidly as construction accelerates. The PIP identifies
the critical path for effective implementation and accelerating disbursements.




                                                 47

Project Milestones: Key project milestones are identified inthe table below. The dated
covenants focus mainly on institutional development actions needed to implement the project
and achieve the objectives o f irrigation modernization and dam safety. All the milestones
have been discussed and agreed with MARD.

                                        Summary W R A P Implementation Program



    meral Project Management
    Finalize Financial and Procurement Manuals
    Training for PMOIPMUsISlOs
    TAiTraininglENV Consultants
        Procurement                                               I          I
       Assignment
    )mponent I:Irrigation Modernization
    Dam Safety Works
        Detailed Design
       Tendering
        Construction
    Phase 1 Canal Works                                                       I
        Consultant Procurement
        Detailed Design
        Tendering
        Construction
     Phase 2 DesigniTenderiConstruction
     Phase 3 DesigniTenderiConstruction
    ~mponent2: Dam Safety
    Hoa Binh Dam Safety Instrumentation
        Detailed Design
        Tendering
        Installation
    Additional Dams: Designn'enderingIConstruction
    3mponent 3: Thu Bon Basin
    Quang Hue Works
        Consultant Procurement
        Detailed Design
        Tendering
        Construction
    Basin and Investment Planning

    mject Milestones
    iegotations
    )oard                                             X
    Effectiveness                                        X
    Aid-Term Review

    ey Dated Covenants
    ilA Approval                                        X
    'ender Documents
    'A Mobilization
    )am Safety Panel
    'raining Program                                          xxxx
    )am Safety Unit
    jtralegic Env. Plans                                                    x
                                                                            xx
    .hu Bon Committee
    MC Plans
    )am Safety Coordination




                                                          48

            Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
               VIETNAM WATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT

Country Issues

The Bank issued the Country Financial Accountability Assessment for Vietnam on October
15, 2001. This report states that at present, there i s a clear degree o f fiduciary risk inthe use
o fpublic resources, given that the budget process i s not yet transparent, public access to
government financial information i s limited, and effective legislative oversight i s not fully in
place yet. Institutions responsible for ensuing financial accountability are also weak,
auditing findings are not publicly available, and the reporting system does not support
effective ongoing monitoring o fpublic resources. Overall, fiduciary risk will be manageable,
however, provided that the Government takes the steps outlined inthe CFAA as well as those
to which it i s committed under the public expenditure review.

Implementation Ai-rangement

The Ministryof Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD),through the PMO inthe
Central Project Office (CPO), will be responsible for overall financial management and
control the single special account. Since the EVNcomponent will have only one turnkey
contract and one minor consultancy, EVNexpenditures will be reimbursed through direct
payment by IDA.At the MARD subproject level, provincial Project Management Units
(PMUs) and MARD Sub-Implementation Units (SIOs) will be employers for N C B contracts,
but payment o f the IDA percentages o f the contract invoices will be made by the PMO after
verification o f the work by PMUs or SIOs. Counterpart payments will be either from the
MARDor provincial government accounts basedonwhether the contract was signedby
MARDor the PMU. This arrangement is intendedto decentralize project implementation
while still providing centralized financial management.

A financial management review and analysis o fthe Project was conducted inJune 2003,
updated in October 2003, and it concluded that the proposed arrangements for VWRAP
could meet the minimumrequirement o f the Bank's OP/BP10.02 after fulfillingthe Action
Plan on financial management (see Attachment 1). The Project will adopt the standard
disbursementmethod andproduce quarterly financial monitoring reports.

Risk Analysis

Multiple implementationagencies at central, regional and provincial level increase the risk o f
slow approval, reporting and disbursement process, potentially causing the delays inproject
progress. Riskmitigation will be achieved through clear documentation o f operating
authorities and procedures, recruitment o f qualified staff and extensive training, and also
more intensive financial supervision by the task team     - esp. by the project FMS. Inadequate
accounting information could lead to vulnerability inoverall reconciliation o f statement o f
expenses at PMO level verses the actual expenditures inthe field. A separate code for
VWRAP would be set-up inthe current accounting software inCPO, so that PMO o f



                                               49

VWRAP could use this to recordproject transaction separately. For PMUs, the same
software would be installed to ensure compatibility and integrationbetween PMO, PMUs,
and SIOs.

Strengths and Weaknesses

CPO has managed approximately ten donor-financed projects, among which two o f them are
IDA-financed projects (Irrigation Rehabilitation Project-closed FY03 and Mekong Delta
Water Resources Development Project-closingFY03), and i s therefore familiar with IDA
disbursementprocedures and financial reportingrequirements. The accounts o f these two
IDAprojectshavebeenauditedby internationalauditing firms inaccordance with
international auditing standards and the independent auditing regulations o f Vietnam. The
Auditor's Opinion for these two ongoingprojects i s unqualified. Some o f the PMUs and
SIOs have experience with IDA and other foreign financed projects, but ingeneral, staffing
levels are low and capacity i s weak, which will need to be bolstered through training and
recruitment o f additional qualified staff.

Current CPO controls, as per Vietnamese construction law, ensure that no payment can be
made to a contractor without a certificate from the Director o f the S I 0 or P M U depending on
who i s the employer, and the supervision consultant. The certificate can only be approved
once a physical check o f quality and quantity work i s done. Systematic verification by
independent parties contracted by the PMO will take place prior to final payment and
handing over o f work. Inaddition, the work i s usually verified and reconfirmed by an
independent financial controller/auditor hiredby the GOVN.

Most o f the provinces do not have accounting software to generate project specific reports,
which makes it difficult to produce required quarterly financial reports for CPO consolidation
and review. The present manual accounting system usedby the provinces does not have
accounting codes for classification o f disbursementby component/subcomponent and
expenditure categories. Although S I 0 416, S I 0 414 and S I 0 408 are very experienced in
managing donor fundedprojects, especially with IDA financial management requirement
through IRP, they only submit annual financial reports, which makes accurate quarterly
financial reporting impossible. The accounting software at the CPO, SIO, and P M U levels
will be improved under the project.

The MARDPMO, SIOs, and PMUswill carry out an Action Plan (see Attachment 1) to
strengthentheir financial management systems. As a condition o f credit effectiveness, the
Borrower will fulfill the following tasks: (i) a Financial Management Manual
                                              adopt
acceptable to IDA; (ii) appoint two project accountants for CPO and at least one project
accountant for each PMU/SIO acceptable to IDA; and (ii)     complete appropriate training on
financial management and accounting software for staff at PMO, PMUs/SIOs.

Accounts and Funds Flow

At the national level inHanoi, MARD shall maintain a Counterpart FundsAccount to receive
GOVNcounterpart funds for payments allocated to the Central Government underthe project
and a Special Account to receive IDA credit funds. MOF will agree to the total allocation o f


                                               50

counterpart resources allocated to the Central Government on an annual basis. Funds shall be
retained at the State Treasury Office and shall be released upon receipt of: (i) approval
                                                                                MOF
o f annual allocation; and (ii) PMO worWprogram agreements with MARD.All contract
payments, except for non-eligible IDA expenses such as land acquisition, shall be made by
the PMO from the Special Account.

At the provincial level, each P M U shall maintain a Counterpart Funds Account at the
Provincial Treasury Office to receive funds from the provincial finance department for non-
eligible IDA expenses, such as land acquisition. The provincial counterpart funds shall
receive money released by provincial treasury offices from time to time and based on work
program agreement betweenPMU/SIO and PMO. All payments from Counterpart Funds for
contracts for civil works shall be made by P M U and S I 0 at the provincial level. The IDA
share will be made directly to the account o f the contractor by PMO inHanoi. For small
payments, the P M U may also make payments directly to the contractor from the provincial
account and then seek reimbursement for the IDA share from the MARD Special Account.
The general funds flow for MARDis diagrammedbelow:


                ContractorlConsultant Pavments for PMU & SI0 Contracts


                                      Contractor/

                                                    \
              Counterpart       /v\   Consultant


                                Statement                Payment
              share/           Performance
                                   Of                    IDA Share




                 Verification and Approval
                                      v                    IDA-Special



                    Request for Payment    4


                                    ~~




                                       Verification
                                       Approval




The PrimeMinister has approvedthe general cost sharing and financial arrangements for the
project ina Jan. 8,2004 Decision reference number 70/QD-TTg. Under the Decision, IDA
funding for canals serving 10hectares command area or more will be provided to the
provinces on an 80% grant basis and 20% as a budget advance. Canals serving less than 10
hectares command area shall be funded by farmers themselves at their own contribution.
Counterpart funding for resettlement for construction o f canals serving less than 150hectares
command area shall be provided by project provinces. For headwork, excluding Hoa Binh


                                                   51

Dam safety instrumentationwork, funding shall be fully provided by Central government
budget. The provinces have provided MARDwritten confirmation that they will accept this
arrangement. MOF and the subproject provinces will enter into a Memorandum o f
Understanding (MOU) detailing the terms, conditions and mechanisms for provincial
repayment prior to the initiation o f canal works. M O F has proposed a repayment maturity of
10 years, with five years grace, zero percent interest, no service charge and five equal
installments. The MOUs will be finalized no later than December 31, 2004.

Disbursementof IDA funds will be based on Withdrawal Applications with the use o f
Summary Sheet, Statement of Expenditure, or Direct Payment Applications. The PMO shall
prepare Withdrawal Applications to be submittedto IDA. The Governor o f the State Bank o f
Vietnam informs IDA o f the authorized signatories on Withdrawal Applications. The
common practice has been for the authorized signatories to be representatives o f the project
management office and representatives o f the designated service bank. IDA has been
informed that inthe future the practice will probably change, and the authorized signatories
will be representatives o f the PMO and representatives o fthe Ministry o f Finance.

Stafflng

CPO has a pool of eight accountants and two suitably qualified accountants from this pool
have beenassigned to the PMO. SIOs and PMUs will appoint project accountants,
satisfactory to the Bank, before the project becomes effective to ensure adequate training
before funds start to disburse. Training and on-going monitoring and supervision o f P M U
and S I 0 financial staff shall be carried out by CPO ChiefAccountant and PMO accountants
as necessary.

ComputerizedAccounting System

The financial management system operational at MARD for the Bank-supported Mekong
Delta Water Resources Development Project, will be adapted subject to modification to
generate Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs) for V W W . A separate code for VWRAP
project will be opened to keep track separately for VWRAP transactions. The computerized
accounting system will have functions to track project progress by disbursement categories,
project components/activities, sources o f funding, location o f project activities andwill
facilitate financial management and consolidation o f financial statements. The computerized
accounting systemwill be established at both the P M O and PMU/SIO levels to capture the
transactions o f the respective accounts. The proposed accounting system contains the
following features: (a) application o f consistent principles o f accounting for documenting,
recording, and reporting financial transactions; (b) suitable method o f accounting; (c) a
double entry accounting system; and (d) the production o f annual/quarterly financial reports
acceptable to the World Bank and GOVN.

Reporting and Monitoring

Annual project financial statements will be prepared by MARD following their accounting
system with suitable modifications to meet Bank reporting requirements. For project
monitoringpurposes, MARDwill prepare and submit quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports


                                                 52

(FMRs)jointly developedbetweenclient and the World Bank. These FMRs will be tailored
to meet practical monitoring requirement o f the project. MARDwill submit to the World
Bank the FMRs on a quarterly basis. The FMRswill comprise o f the following reports:

     o Sources and Uses ofFundsby expenditure categories;
     o Uses ofFundsby project activities/components;
     o Special Account Statement;
     o Implementation Progress by contract (combination o fImplementation Progress &
         Contract Monitoring); and
     o ProcurementProcess Monitoring.

Supervision Plan

The MARDPMO will conduct field review trip to S I 0 and PMU at least twice per year.
Fieldobservationreport shall beprepared to address the issued identified and actions to be
taken. The project financial management specialist willjoin the World Bank supervision
mission to review the project financial management system and conduct the random review
o f the supporting documents to the SOEs. Quarterly FMR reports will be reviewed regularly
through the year where financial; procurement and contract management issues will be
reviewed.

Audit Arrangements

The proposed project account will be audited annually to intemational auditing standards by
an independent extemal firm o fpublic accountants. The audit will be carried out in
accordance with TOR satisfactory to the Bank. The Auditor shall be appointed within 6
months o f the first disbursement. The auditor's reportwill be submitted to the Bank no later
than six months after the close of each fiscal year. A management letter addressing intemal
control weaknesses o f implementation agencies will also be provided by the auditor together
with the audit report. Auditing fees for the project are incrementalexpenses and are to be
covered by the Consultant's service category.

Allocation of Credit Proceed

Disbursements o f the Credit proceeds would be made against expenditure categories as
shown inthe table below. The proposed IDA credit o f US$157.8 million equivalent will be
disbursedover aperiod o f seven years.

Use of Statement of Expenditures

Reimbursement will be made on the basis o f Statements o f Expenditure for the following:
(a) works under contracts each costing less than US$200,000 equivalent;
(b) goods contracts valued at less than US$lOO,OOO
(c) consultants' services under contracts awarded to consulting firms each costing less than
US$lOO,OOO equivalent;
(d) consultants' services under contracts awarded to individual consultants each costing less
than US$50,000 equivalent;


                                               53

(e) training; and
(qincrementaloperating costs.

Project Financing and Allocation of Credit Proceeds

                             Amount inUS$
  Expenditure Category           million           Financing Percentage        IDA Credit  GOVN
 1. Works                                 $132.2                         95%        $125.6   $6.6
2. Goods                                   $16.2            Foreign: 100%            $13.8   $2.4
                                                                 Local: 75%
3. Services                                $15.7     100%for Domestic Indv;
                                                    93% for all other Services        $14.7  $1.0
4. Training                                 $1.7                       100%           $1.7   $0.0
5. Incremental Costs                        $2.8                         70%          $2.0   $0.8
6. Non-IDA Financed                         $7.6                          0%          $0.0   $7.6



The total IDA financing percentage for the project is 89%, which is consistent with recent
World Bank financed projects inthe rural sector. A financing percentage o f 95% for civil
works i sjustified for the project as provincial governments will be makingmost o f the
counterpart payments to civil works contractors. Given budget constraints, it would be very
difficult for provincial governments to provide a larger share o f counterpart support. The
inability to pay counterpart expenses poses a risk to the project implementation, and thus it i s
prudent to have a high IDA financing percentage.

The documentationwill be made available for the requiredaudits as well as to the World
Bank supervision missions, and will be retainedby CPO for at least four years after receipt
by the Bank o fthe audit report for the year inwhich the last disbursement was made. For
contracts above these amounts, Withdrawal Applications would be supported by full
documentation and signed contracts.

Special Account

To receive IDA credit funds, MARD shall maintain a Special Account inUSD at commercial
bank acceptable to IDA and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including
appropriate protection against set off, seizure and attachments. The Special Account will
cover the IDA shares o f eligible foreign and local expenditures inall disbursement
categories.

The MARD Special Account will have an authorized allocation o f US$lO.O million (equal to
IDA financed average expenditure for 4 months) with an initial deposit o fUS$5.0 millionto
be withdrawn from the credit account and deposited inthe Special Account. Withdrawal
Applications for replenishment o f the Special Account would be submitted regularly,
preferably monthly or whenever the Account has beendrawn down by about 30 percent o f
the initial deposit, whichever occurs first.

Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing will be used for procurement of
engineering design services for start up works and training. There will be an estimated 9


                                                   54

small CQ contracts for a total o f $700,000, and training expenses of approximately
US$lOO,OOO. The procurement procedure shall be in accordance with the Bank requirements
inorder for these contracts to become eligible for retroactiveBank financing. Any o fthese
expenditures incurred after November 1,2003 will be eligible for retroactive financing when
the project becomes effective. The start-up procurement plan i s presented inAnnex 8.




                                               55

                                    Attachment 1to Annex 7

                              FinancialManagementAction Plan

                        Action                          Responsibility       Completed by


Financial Management Manual

- Finalize and adopt the FinancialManagement           P M O           Effectiveness
Manual, including staff responsibility, detailed fimds
flow arrangement, project chart o f account and
reporting requirements.


Staffing
- Appoint two project accountants for CPO and at       PMO/PMUs        Effectiveness
least one project accountant for each PMUlSIO with
aualifications acceDtable to IDA
Accounting software
- Complete enhancement o f computerized financial      PMOlPMUlSIO      Effectiveness
management system, including establishment o f
separate code for VWRAP in the existing
computerized accounting system for P M O and install
the same software for SIOs and PMUs. This software
would have capability to: (i)  classify the
disbursements by componentlcomponents,
expenditure categories (ii) record and analyze the
transactions in Special Account and Direct
Payments, (iii) consolidate the SIOs and PMUs
financial information into the project accounts and
(iv) to meet the reportingrequirements o f IDA and
GOV.
Training
- Complete training o f S I 0 and PMUs/SIOs staff on   PMO/SIOslPMUs    Effectiveness
the Financial Management Manual, IDA
disbursement procedure, and the accounting
software.
Others
-- Appoint independent auditors acceptable to IDA                       6 months after Is'
                                                                                        disb.
  Start the annual action plan and budget preparation  PMO/SIOslPMUs    Every year
process by JulyiAugust every year to provide inputs
to GOV national budget.




                                                   56

                                    Annex 8: Procurement
              VIETNAM WATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT

Summary of Procurement Arrangement

Procurement o f civil works and goods financedby IDA shall be on the basis o f the
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRLI Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995, and
revised inJanuary and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Selection o f
consultants shall be on the basis o f the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers",dated January 1997 and revised inSeptember 1997,
January 1999, and May 2002. The latest versions o f Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments,
Standard Request for Proposals, Standard Bid Evaluation Report and Standard Consultant
Selection Evaluation Report shall be used as applicable. Sample BiddingDocuments (in
Vietnamese) for NCB for Works or Goods, sample Documents for Procurement o f Small
Works prepared by World Bank Office inVietnam are recommended.

Overall project costs by type o f expenditures and procurement arrangements are shown in
Table A. Consultants selection arrangements are presented inTable B. The Bank'sthresholds
for procurement methods and prior reviewsare summarized inTable C. A start up
procurement plan i s presented inTable D.

For any contract to be eligible for financing from the credit, the procurement shall be done in
accordance with the procedures set out inthe Credit Agreement. These procedures include
criteria for packagingo f contracts, the various methods o f procurement that may be used, the
thresholds within which those methods apply and arrangements for prior and post review o f
procurement documentation and decisions. The Borrowers (Vietnam Ministry o f Agriculture
and Rural Development and Electricity o f Vietnam and their respective Project Management
Units) shall be responsible for all procurement actions necessary to implement the project.
The Bank shall supervise the work o f the PMUs to ensure that all procurements under Bank
financing are carried out in accordance with agreed procedures as defined inthe Credit
Agreement. All procurements shall be conducted in accordance with a detailed procurement
plan agreed with the Bank.

Civil Works is the largest part o fthe project accounting for about $132.2m or 75 percent o f
the project cost.

International Competitive Bidding shall be usedfor procurement o f civil works estimated to
cost $2.0 million or more per contract. One ICB contract has beenidentified - Cat Hai Water
Transfer which i s estimated at $5.0m.

National CompetitiveBidding will be the mainmethod o fprocurement for civil works under
the project, primarily for canal strengthening and dam safety works. The aggregate amount o f
NCB contracts i s approximately US$115.6 million, and N C B will be applied for all contracts
estimated to cost more than US$50,000 and less than US$2.0 million. The selection o f the
method for lining existing canals is a major construction and design issue, due to the
potential service interruptions incritical water supply services, particularly in large main



                                                57

canals. Divertingwater through temporary diversion canals i s a costly solution and requires
compensation to farmers for temporary occupation o f lands. The alternative solutions are to:
i)closethecanalsforapproximatelytwomonthsduringthewetseasonwhichmakes
constructionproblematic; or ii)close canals for short periods outside o f the wet season-for
example after every 10 days o f operation the canals would be shut for 10 days for
construction. The specific solutions will depend on the climatic situation ineach region and
preferences o f the local people. Giventhe short periods available each year for construction,
intermittent nature o f the work, small value o f contracts and political complexities o f canal
closures, it i s most likely that only local contractors will be willing to undertake the works.
The works on large and mediummain canals would be packaged into lots o f about $500k and
$200k each respectivelyto suit the above conditions. Ln addition, lots o f this size match the
capacity o f localprovincial and new private contractors. Depending on their capacity,
contractors would be allowed to bidfor any lot or any combination o f lots.

Procurement of Small Worksmay be the suitable method for works on very small canals
such as secondary and tertiary improvementsthat are scattered over a wide areas o f each
irrigation system and not be big enough for packaging into contracts suitable for NCB. This
method may be used for an aggregate o f approximately $11.6m o f works, and applied for all
civil works expected to cost less than US$50,000. Duringproject implementation, when
detailed engineering designs are available, repackaging into larger contracts should be
considered where appropriate.

Goods account for about $16.2 m or 9 percent o f the project costs.

International Competitive Bidding (ICB) shall be used for procurement o f goods estimated
to cost $150,000 or more per contract. There are 12 identified ICB goods contracts
accounting for about $15.6m. These include contracts such as turnkey dam safety
instrumentation for the Hoa Binhdam ($1.O m); turnkey Canal Regulation and SCADA
systems for Dau Tieng ($3 m) and Cu Chi ($1 m) systems; Geo-membrane for Dau Tieng ($4
m); drainage pump stations for Cam Son subproject ($1.2 m) and others.

The canal lining with geo-membrane to minimize water losses is a major project activity.
Two options on implementation o f this activity are beingconsidered: (1) geo-membrane to
be suppliedand installedby the canal work contractors as part o f the contracts; and (2) geo-
membrane to be bulk-purchased under ICB from a single supplier. As the quality o f the geo-
membrane lining i s critical for successful seepage control, MARD i s considering having one
contract for the geo-membrane work for the largest subproject - Dau Tieng Irrigation System
to ensure quality control. For other subprojects following Dau Tieng, geo-membrane supply
may be included inthe biddingdocuments for canal works. The final decision on whether to
have a separate geomembrane supply contract will be made during implementation.

National Competitive Bidding (NCB) may be usedfor procurement of goods estimated to
cost more than $50,000 but less than $150,000 per contract, where the goods are normally
available locally at competitive prices. N C B procurement o f goods i s not anticipated to be
used frequently, as typical goods such as sluice gates, motors, and lifting units are normally
included inthe civil works contracts. The current estimate inTable A i s that no goods will



                                                  58

be procured usingNCB method, but actual packagingand cost estimates o fthese goods will
be available only after completion o f the engineering designs

Shopping may be usedto procure goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract.
These include office equipment, computers, software, vehicles, etc. and account for about
$570,000. Duringthe review o f actual procurement plan, the Bank may require repackaging
some o f these goods into contracts for NCB or ICB ifpossible.

Consultants Services account for about $15.7m or 8.9 percent o f the project costs.

Quality and CostBased Selection (QCBS) will be the main method for contracts greater than
$100,000 each. There are expected to be approximately 14 QCBS contracts with a total
amount o f about $14.2m.

There is expected to be one large technical assistance contract, approximately $3.0m, to
provide overall engineering, construction management, procurement, resettlement, and
environmental management international expertise for the project. Other contracts include
various engineering designs for irrigation modernizationworks and dam safety consultancy.

Selection Based on Quality Based Selection (QBS): For some highly complex dam safety
works, it may be preferable to select the most highly qualified firm to undertake the design
and investigationwork. One such contract has beenpreliminarily identified for Dau
Tieng/Da Ban works with an estimated cost o f approximately $250,000. This is still under
consideration by MARD and be considered during implementation.

Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQJ may be used for contracts less than
$100,000 each. There are an estimated 20 CQ contracts for a total o f about $900,000, mainly
for local firms to prepare engineering designs for start up works and assist with project
management and training.

Individual Consultants (IC) may also be required to assist the project implementing agencies
for specialized tasks such as dam safety instrumentation. The selection will be on a
competitive basis. The total amount for this type o f services i s estimated at about $100,000.

Single Source Selection The Project includes an approximately US$500,000 contract for
"irrigation modernizationtraining and participatory irrigation management support." OPRC
has provided clearance to sole source the MARD-affiliated Vietnam Institute of Water
Resources Research (VIWRR) as the lead institute for this assignment. Giventhe importance
o f language and local knowledge to the assignment, a Vietnamese organization should take
the leadrole. The VIWRR has unique and exceptional skills for the assignment with the
requisite expertise in irrigation modernization, participatory irrigation management, and
research facilities. The involvement o f the VIWRR is critical to project implementation, and
there are no obvious suitable alternatives from the private sector. The VIWRR will probably
associate with the MARD-affiliated Water Resources University, which has expertise in
curriculum development and training delivery. It i s expected that VIWRR will also enter into
a subcontract with an international irrigation-training expert.




                                               59

Training ($1.7m) and Incremental Operating Costs ($2.8~~)          There will be a large and
extensive training program including in-country training such as workshops, seminars and
training courses and other miscellaneous costs related to operations o f the project offices.
Consultant services for training purposes must be procured usingthe allowed consultant
procurement methods. The training programs shall provide for IDA'Sreview the objectives,
criteria for selection o f participants, venue and/or institute selected, period o f activity and
estimated costs such as conference hall renting,translation service, office supplies etc.
Eligible activities for incremental operatingcosts include travel costs, travel per diem, office
consumable, communications expenses, but excluding salaries. Purchase o f goods for
incremental operating costs purposes should be procured usingthe allowed goods
procurement method. The plan for expenditures on incremental operating costs shall in
general follow the relevant Government norms and be subject to review by the Bank.

Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing will be used for procurement o f
engineeringdesign services for start up works and training. There will be about 9 small CQ
contracts for a total o f $700,000 and estimated training expenses o f US$lOO,OOO.       The
procurement procedure shall be inaccordance with Bank requirements inorder for these
contracts to be eligible for retroactive Bank financing. Any o f these expenditures incurred
after November 1,2003 will be eligible for retroactive financing when the project becomes
effective.

Eligibility of Dependent SOEs to bidfor Bank--named contracts

The Bank is committed to aggressively implementing its SOE eligibility policy inVietnam as
o f January 2003 and as announced to the government inNovember 2000. The Bank has made
significant, although difficult, progress inthe transport sector. The Bank will continue to
enforce the SOEpolicy while recognizing that minor and temporary modifications may be
necessary to keep the Borrowers engaged without compromising the principles. Under the
policy, commercially oriented SOEs are allowed to bid for Bank contracts, provided they are
not dependent on the employer agency. Dependency i s the key issue indetermining SOE
eligibility.

Major MARD-dependent SOEs usedto be the contractors employed for most major works
managed by MARD, such as construction o f dams, water reservoirs and major canals and
structures such as spillways, sluices etc. It should be noted that since the Government
introducedcompetitive biddingin 1996, the territory once reserved for MARD-dependent
contractors has been steadily shrinking.Pressure inthat direction has been increased
following the Bank formal confirmation to the Government inNovember 2000 that the Bank
requirements on eligibility criteria for Borrower's SOEs will fully apply from 2003. The
Company Law o f 2000 has promoted establishment o f many new private firms including
civil works contractors. SOEs under other ministries such as construction, transport and those
underprovincial governments have expanded their business to gradually cover water
resources construction. Within MARD, the SOE policy requires that only "essential SOEs"
should remain under MARD supervision. As the result, a number o f MARD SOEs have been
"equitized" (privatized).




                                                 60

Works and Goods Contracts. There are many private and non-MARD-dependent SOEs
capable o f undertaking the civil works under VWRAP, including provincial construction
companies. Thus, no MARD-dependent contractors are eligible for bidding on Bank-financed
contracts. Likewise, for each province which has a VWRAP subproject, no construction
company owned by the province would be eligible for bidding.

Service (Engineering) Contracts, The MARD-dependent engineering companies contain the
largest pool o f hydraulic engineers inVietnam, and their exclusion from consulting
assignments could potentially result ina lack o f competitive bidding. The Bank's Operational
Procurement Review Committee (OPRC) has granted an exception to the Bank's SOE policy
to allow these firms to participate inBank-financed contracts as sub-consultants, provided
the subcontract does not exceed 50% o fthe total contract amount. OPRC has also approved
an exception for provincial engineering companies dependent on the provincial government,
provided the subcontract amount will not exceed 20% o f total contract amount.

University/Research Institutes. As noted inthe sole source section above, the Project
includes an approximately US$500,000 contract for "irrigation modernization training and
participatory irrigation management support." OPRC has provided clearance to sole source
the MARD-affiliatedVietnam Institute o f Water Resources Research (VIWRR) as the lead
institute for this assignment. The VIWRR will probably associate with the MARD-affiliated
Water Resources University, which has expertise incurriculum development and training
delivery.

The table below indicatesprior reviewthresholds. Prior review would be requiredfor all:

    (i)     contracts for works that are estimated to cost US$200,000 or more;

    (ii)    contracts for goods that are estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more;

    (iii)   contracts for consulting firms and NGOs, estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more;

    (iv)    contracts for individual consultants, estimated to cost US$50,000 or more;
    (v)     single-source contracts; and
    (vi)    contracts with dependent SOEs.




                                               61

Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)


                                    Procurement Method'
Exenditure Category           ICB      NCB        Other2     N.B.F.3            Total Cost
1. Works                         5.0      115.6       11.6          0.0                     132.2
                                4.8      109.8        11.0         0.0                      125.6
2. Goods                        15.6         0.0        0.6         0.0                      16.2
                               13.3         0.0        0.5         0.0                       13.8
3. Services                      0.0         0.0      15.7          0.0                      15.7
                                0.0         0.0       14.7         0.0                       14.7
4. Miscellaneous                 0.0         0.0        4.5         7.6                      12.1
                                0.0         0.0        3.8         0.0                        3.8
                   Total        20.6      115.6       32.4          7.6                     176.2


1. Figures in italics are the amounts to be financed by IDA. All costs include contingencies
2. Includessmall works, shopping, consulting services, training and incremental costs
3. Non-Bank Financed includes land acquistion and resettlement costs




                   Table B- Project Costs by Consultant Procurement Arrangements (million US$)

                                              Selection Method

                                   CQ              QCBS              Other            NIF        Total

1.Engineering                       0.9            $10.74             $0.1            0.0        11.7

2. Technical Assistance             0.0             $3.50             $0.5            0.0         4.0

           Total                    0.9            $14.24             $0.6            0.0        15.7

Number of Contracts                 20                14                2                         36




                                                     62

Table C:Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviews

Categovy              Contract Value           Procurement Method    Prior Review
                                                                    1
1.Works               >2000                    ICB                   All

                                                                     ;?--!:Contract for each
                                                                     PMOiPMUiSIO
2. Goods              > 150                    ICB                   All
                      > 50 to <150             NCB                   >loo
                      < 50                     Shopping              None
3. ConsultingServices Firms > 100              QCBS                  All
                      Firms < 100              CQ
                                               sss                   TOR
                                                                     All
                                               Individual            >50
4. Training                                    ---                   Cost EstimatesiPlan
5. Incremental Costs                           ---                   Cost EstimatesiPlan

Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $133.6 million or 79 % o f total project
cost (excluding non-IDA financed land acquisition)

Post Review Ratio
Contracts not covered by prior review shall subject to post review.
The post review ratio will be one in five contracts.

Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High

Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months




                                              63

d d * * d d
0 0 0 0 0 0




0 0 0 0 0 0
Z Z Z Z Z Z

5 5 5 5 5 5

                                  Attachment 1to Annex 8:

                                         Procurement

  Summary of Agency Procurement Capacity Assessment and Action Plan to Strengthen
                Procurement Capacity of the Project ImplementingAgencies

An assessment o fthe capacity o f various MARDproject management units (PMO, PMUs,
and SIOs) was carried out inaccordance with World Bank procedures (dated July 15,2002).
The assessment involved a review o f the procurement policies and procedures adopted by
MARDand took into considerationthe experience inthe implementation intwo other IDA-
financed water resource projects (Irrigation Rehabilitation Project-closed FY03; and Mekong
Delta Water Resources Project-approvedFYOO), as well as the findings and
recommendations o f the Vietnam Country Procurement Assessment, October 2002.

Legal Framework. Vietnam has gained valuable experience from implementation o fthe first
public procurement regulation (Decree 43CP) issued in 1996 and its subsequent revisions-
Decree 88CP o f 1999 and most recently, Decree 66CP o f June 12,2003 and now fully
convinced on the benefits that could be brought by a competitive process. Vietnam has also
realized that the current regulations need further improvement and has been working since
2000 on further systemreforming under a Bank-sourcedIDFGrant completed inAugust
2002. Another technical assistance project has been approved to move the reform further in
accordance with the October 2002 CPAR Action Plan.

While MARDand EVN follow external donor procurement procedure for contracts funded
by those donors, they are expected to follows the Government procedure (Decree 88CP and
66CP) for contracts funded by domestic resources. While procurements conducted by the
SIOs to date include contracts funded by the Bank under the Irrigation Rehabilitation and
Mekong Delta Water Resources projects, those conducted by PMUs are funded by mostly by
domestic resources following the Government procurementprocedure. As discussed inthe
CPAR, Decree 88CP contains a number o fprovisions that should be waved and/or modified
incaseo fNCB. The new Decree66CP o fJune 12,2003 amending anumber o fprovisions of
the Decree 88CP has also been reviewed by the Bank. For these decrees to be acceptable for
NCB procurements under the project, provisions for a revised and updated Supplemental
Letter for NCB are attached as annex to this document.

Procurement Capacity. The MARD PMO, which will be under the supervision o f the
MARD'sCentralProject Office, has considerable experience inimplementing Irrigation
RehabilitationProject (IRP) and the on-going Mekong Delta Water Resources Project. The
PMO's staff would mainly come from current CPO's staff and additional technical and
managerial staff from MARD. Given the potential complexity o f VWRAP, the PMO's
technical and managerial capacity will be strengthened by technical assistance, including
procurement support from international and national consultants.

MARDSub-Implementing Offices (SIOs) possesssignificant employer experience incivil
works, especially complex headwork and larger canals accumulated over the years o f
managingprojects funded from the state budget usingthe GOVNprocurement procedures.



                                               65

All SIOs (except the SI0 403) were involvedinthe IRP and/or the Mekongproject and have
gained valuable experience on NCB procurements fundedby the Bank. While S I 0 403 has
no past experience with Bank procurement, it does have considerable procurement
experience under the recently completed RedRiver Delta Irrigationproject funded by the
Asian Development Bank.

The PMUs also have long experience managing construction o f simple civil works using
local procurement procedures. Some provinces, such as Bac Giang or Tay Ninhhave some
limited experience with external donor's procurement procedures, such as ADB or the AFD.
Both S I 0 and especially PMUs procurement capacities will be strengthened through
procurement training organized by PMO and supported by Bank procurement specialists and
national consultants. The procurement training plan will be outlined inthe Project
ImplementationPlan. The Procurement Manual will be a good tool for training purposes. It
i s recommended that SIOs provide procurement technical assistance to the respective PMUs
located inthe same subproject area and working on the same subproject.

The EVNProcurementDepartment has considerable experience with World Bank ICB
procurement of Goods gained from managing several Bank-funded power development
projects since 1995 and thus i s fully capable to implementprocurement o f the EVNsmall
component which consists o f a single $1.Omncontract for supply o f dam instrumentation.

Risk Assessment. Although MARDand EVNhave extensive procurement experience,
much o f the procurement will take place at the sub-implementation level through SIOs,
which are less experienced inthe Bank procurements and PMUs which have experience on
Government procurement procedure only. Given the country's general procurement
environment as reported inthe Country Procurement Assessment Report, and lack o f
experience at the sub-implementation level, the overall procurement risk i s rated as "high."
To overcome these constraints, MARD has agreed to take the following actions:

Procurement Action Plan

Organization: MARDwill propose a streamlined procurement review process for review by
the Bank by M a y 2004.

Regulation: MARD will issue an instruction on procurement procedure to be followed for
VWRAP by July 2004.

Staffing: i)Appointment o f 2 full-time procurement specialists at P M O by March2004; ii)
Appointment o f 1 full-time procurement specialist each at S I 0 and P M Uby April 2004.

Training: Procurement training for SIOs/PMUs to be provided by PMO with assistance fi-om
WB procurement specialists - 2 workshops to be conducted duringthe period March-June
2004.

Procurement assistance by SIOs to respective PMUs located inthe same subproject area to be
provided on a continuous basis duringthe first year o f respective subproject implementation.




                                                66

Documents: Completion o f all biddingdocuments first year works no later than December,
2004.

Project ProcurementManual finalized and formally adopted by effectiveness. The Manual
shall be used for all agencies and staff involved invarious steps the procurement process
including MARD,DARDs, PMO, SIOs, PMUs and IMCs.

Inaddition, World Bank procurement specialists from Hanoiand Washingtonwill provide
support and supervision during implementation.

Estimated date o f Project LaunchProcurement Workshop: August 2004.

Estimated date o f Publication o f General Procurement Notice: January 2004.

Are biddingdocuments for the first year ready by negotiations? No.

The first set o fbiddingdocuments is expected to beready by July 2004.

I s there procurement subject to mandatory SPN inDevelopment Business? Yes.

Domestic Preference: Yes, ifrequested by MARD or EVN.

Advance procurement: Yes.

Retroactive Financing: Yes.




                                               67

                                   Attachment2 to Annex 8:

                                          Procurement

 VIETNAM: Mandatory Provisionsfor NCB

Inorder to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency andbroadconsistency with the
provision of Section Io f the World Bank Procurement Guidelines, the procedures normally
used for public procurement inthe country o fthe Borrower shall be modifiedinaccordance
with the followingprovisions:

Participation in bidding andpreferences

(i) clarificationpurposes,itisunderstoodthatthelastsentenceoftheamendedParagraph
   For
(c), Section 2, Article 2 o fDecree 88CP which states that "All the procedures for
submission, appraisal and approval o fbiddingresults and bidder selection results shall follow
the Procurement Regulation" means "Approvals ofdraft biddingdocuments, bidevaluation
reports and proposals for award shall be obtained in accordance with the relevant rules and
procedures o f the Procurement Regulation".

(ii)Government-owned enterprises inVietnam shall be eligible to participate inbiddingonly
ifthey can establish that they are legally andfinancially autonomous, operate under
commercial law, and are not a dependent agency o f the Borrower or the procuring entity.
Military or security units, or enterprises which belong to the Ministry o f Defense or the
Ministry o f Public Security shall not be permittedto bid.

(iii)Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate inbiddingunder the same conditions as
local bidders, and local bidders shall be givenno preference (either inthe biddingprocess or
inbidevaluation) over foreignbidders, nor shall bidders locatedinthe sameprovince or city
as the procuring entity be given any such preference over bidders located outside that city or
province.

(iv) Bidders shall be allowed to participate inbiddingwithout being listed inthe Government
Database on Bidder Information.

(v) Foreignbiddersshall not be required, inorder to participate inbidding, to enter into a
joint venture with a local bidder, or to subcontract part o f their contract to a local bidder.

(vi) Ifthere is prequalification, all prequalified bidders shall be invited to bid.

(vii)      Ifthere is limitedbiddingbecausethere areonly a limitednumber ofbidderswho
can meet the requirements o f the bidding documents, all o f these bidders shall be invited to
bid.

(viii) Bidders shall not be required, as a condition o fparticipation inthe bidding, to provide
suppliers' credits.



                                                68

Advertising timefor bidpreparation

(ix) Invitations to bid shall be advertised inat least one widely circulated national newspaper.
Inaddition, the Borrower is encouragedto advertise inthe Government Public Procurement
Bulletinwhen established and on a free and open access website.

Standard bidding documents

(x) The Borrower's standard biddingdocuments shall be acceptable to the Bank. The bidding
documents shall provide clear instructions on how bids should be submitted, how prices
should be offered, and the place and time for submission o f bids. A minimumo f 30 days for
the preparation and submission o fbids shall beprovided. Bidders shall be allowed to submit
bids byhand or by mail.

Qualification criteria and evaluation criteria

(xi) Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified inthe biddingdocuments, and all criteria
so specified, and only criteria so specified, shall be used to determine whether a bidder is
qualified. Qualifications o f a bidder found to meet the specified qualification criteria shall not
be taken into account inthe evaluation o f such bidder's bid.

(xii) Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified inthe biddingdocuments, and evaluation
criteria other than price shall be quantified inmonetary terms. All evaluation criteria so
specified, and only evaluation criteria so specified, shall be taken into account inbid
evaluation. Merit points shall not be used inbidevaluation.

Bid evaluation and award of contract

(xiii) Bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be returned to the bidders
unopened.

(xiv) A bid containing material deviations from, or reservations to, the terms, conditions or
specifications o f the bidding documents shall be rejected as not substantially responsive. A
bidder shall not be permittedto withdraw material deviations or reservations once bids have
been opened.

(xv) Evaluation o f bids shall be made instrict adherence to the criteria specified inthe
biddingdocuments, and contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder offering the lowest
evaluated and responsive bid.

(xvi) A bidder shall not be required, as a condition for award, to undertake obligations not
specified inthe biddingdocuments, or otherwise to modify the bidas originally submitted.

(xvii) There shall be no post-bidding negotiationswith the lowest or any other bidder".




                                                69

                           Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
                VIETNAMWATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT


Introduction

The investments made under VWRAP will result indirect benefits inpoverty alleviation and
economic development. These benefits will mainly accrue through irrigation modernization
investments (Component 1) which will improve water distribution and thus increase the area
which can be reliably irrigated. The economic and financial analysis analyze the impact o f
project investments in the following areas:

       Increased agricultural production and revenues from increase in irrigated area,
       diversification, and yields;
       Lower production expenses due to reduction of farmers' private pumpingand labor to
       bringwater to fields;
    0  Increase in I M C revenues and financial viability from expanded collection area due to
       better service; and
       Non-quantified benefits: reduced risk o f dam and main canal failures; improved transport
       from new canal roads; greater reliability for municipal and industrial water users.

Economic Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file)

Approach. The project viability is based on the economic rate of returnand net present value o f
the measurable, incremental benefits and directly-related costs o fthe project usingthe "present
without-project and future with-project'' criteria. The major benefits used are those which are
measurable reliably inmonetary terms, Le. the aggregate incremental net returns from irrigated
farming within the irrigation command area o f sub-projects, and, where projections are based on
existing demand andor committed investment from outside the project, incrementalvalue o f
water supply. Potential benefits from incremental water supply where existing demand cannot
be quantified, are not included inthe analysis butrepresent a potentially important project
benefit. Dueto the difficulty inrealistically estimating the timing, probability and impact o f dam
deterioration or failure inthe main canals o f the irrigation scheme for a "future without-project"
scenario, these avoided costs were not modeled. Dam safety investments were subject to a least-
cost analysis needed to achieve design safety standards. Followingthe Bank's Handbook on
Economic Analysis of Investment Operations and revised Templateand Guidelinesfor the
Project Appraisal Document, costs during construction for mitigating potential negative
environmental impacts and for compensating farmers for land lost are included.

Project Benefits. Economic benefits result from improved irrigation which enables farmers to
achieve higher yields, diversify, and intensify their land use. Farm budgets are based on typical
three-season cropping patterns dominated by irrigated paddy rice (two crops per year) with
subsidiary or rice-break crops including maize, beans, vegetables, sugarcane and others. The
cropping index (CI) for each crop, that i s the relative percentage o f farm area planted ina crop,
has been estimated for the present and with-project situation based on surveys o f farms, industry



                                                  70

and market trends ineach site. These cropping indices are used inthe calculation o f economic
and financial rates o f retum.

The project will improve the utilization efficiency o f the water resource ineach sub-project
basin, resulting inmore water reliable, flexible, equitable, and responsive service to users, both
farmers and municipal and industrial (M&I).Irrigation modernization i s expected to increase
land area under full gravity-serviced irrigation, reducing present areas o f land which have no
irrigation or where unreliable irrigation service requires farmers to supplement it bypumping
water themselves. It will provide farmers with the opportunity to intensify and/or diversify their
present cropping pattems as a result of improved irrigation. For instance, irrigation allows
increased planting of winter-spring and summer-autumn rice and reduces the need to grow it
duringthe rainy monsoon season. The advantage to farmers is from the fact that monsoon season
rice provides relatively lower yields, requires higher pesticide inputs and i s more prone to losses
due to storm damage. Crop diversification with peanut and soybean will increase, not only
providing farm income increases from their higher financial value but also economic benefits in
terms of contributing to soil fertility and reduced pest and disease load by breaking the cycle o f
grain cropping. The expected diversification into higher value and higher retum crops i s evident
inthe increased cropping o fmaize, vegetables and sugarcane.

There are other significant benefits not quantified. First, the project will support a long-term
increase inmunicipal and industrial (M&I)water supply. However inmost sub-projects, except
Yen Lap and Vu Gia-Quang Hue, the near term additional M&Idemands or very low or non-
existent and thus not taken into account. Second, village roads constructed alongside canals will
improve access for goods, services and social benefits. Third, without the project further
deterioration o f many canals and control structures i s highly likely, resulting in significant farm
land potentially taken out o f production due to insufficient water control. Fourth, improved dam
and canal safety reduces chances o f catastrophic losses in future. While these benefits are not
quantified inthe analysis due to their complexity, they do improve the robustness o fthe
economic rate o f return.

Pvojecr Cosrs. Cost estimates have been drawn from the feasibility study' o f each sub-project
and adjusted duringthe (Pre)Appraisal mission based on studies and agreements reached on
engineering, environmental mitigation and compensation issues.

BeneJit-cost analysis shows the investment i sjustified based on an overall estimated rate o f
return o f 14.7% with sub-projects ranging from 11.0%to 33.7%. The robustness o f the ERR i s
demonstrated since this analysis i s conservative intwo ways: (i) does not include the very real,
                                                                    it
but difficult to assess, "future without-project" situation inwhich benefits are declining as the
irrigation system continues to deteriorate; and (ii) increased M&Iwater supply is not included
where it cannot be clearly imputed to the project. Both factors would tend to increase the ERR
substantially, For calculation o f the net present value (NPV), a conventional Social Discount
Rate o f 10% i s usedto discount future values back to the present.




' Nippon KoedRoyal Haskoning, June 2003


                                                   71

                         Table A9.1. Summary of EconomicAnalysis Results

                           Overall                                          Cam Son-
        Indices            project Dau Tieng Da Ban     Ke Go    Phu Ninh   Cau Son    Yen Lap    Quang Hue

Economic Rateof Retum        14.7%1    11.9%1   12.5%1    11.8%)     11.0%1    22.3%1     33.7%1    19.4%
Economic NPV (milVND)    II479,2101   79,8831  16,5351   22,6491    14,9511   159,0901   138,3261      47,775

Project Risks A sensitivity analysis assesses the robustness o f the economic rates o f retum o f the
project and individual schemes to wide ranging deviations from the base case assumptions. The
major risks associated with the project relate to: (i)       increased investment costs due to
implementation inefficiencies or costs under-estimation; (ii)           benefits decrease due to poor
scheme performance or lower crop prices, and; (iii)           delays inimplementation. The results o f the
sensitivity analysis to reflect these risks are presented inTable A9.2.




Financia1Analysis

Financial rate o f retum(FRR) ranges from 7.2% to 28.3%. The financial rate o f return o f the
whole project i s estimated at 12.5% generating net incremental benefits o f VND 280 billion. An
SCF o f 0.90 i s applied to convert financial costs to economic costs.



                               Overall                                         Cam Son-
             Indices           project Dau Tieng Da Ban    Ke Go     Phu Ninh   Cau Son   Yen Lap QuangHue
    FinancialRate of Retum       12.5%     10.6%     7.4%      9.1%       7.2%     21.0%      28.3%     19.0%
    FinancialNPV (mi1,VND)     279,561    26,370   -16,921   -12,084    -42,555   157,733    116,776    50,243


Farm budgetshave been prepared from the existing without-project situation and future with-
project scenario. Crop yields and production costs used inthe farm budgets are based on
observed existing practices and performance o f farmers and the varieties they use. For each sub-
project area, farm budgets show different improvements related to: (i)             reduction o f farmers'
irrigation expenses (e.g. replacing farmers' own water lift costs and labor with fees to an IMC);
(ii)increased crop yield; (iii)diversification into higher value crops. Table A9.4, Netfarm
incrementalJinancia1 benefits shows this project will contribute significantly to improved farm



                                                        72

incomes. Farmers report2irrigation-related income benefits may be used to finance incremental
productive services (e.g. contract mechanization o f farm operations, or fees for incremental
irrigation service), and farm-based investment (e.g. for diversification into higher value crops,
livestock or processing).

                 Table A9.4. Net FarmIncrementalFinancialBenefits        (lo6 VND/ha)
                            BeforeiWithout Project    Aftermith Project        Incremental Farm
                                                                               Benefits
  K e Go                    2.92                      5.40                     2.48
  Phu Ninh                  2.70                      5.52                     2.82
  Yen Lap                   0.96                      3.27                     2.31
  Da Ban                    0.41                      2.48                     2.07
 Dau Tieng                  2.23                      5.26                     3.03
  Cam Son - Cau Son         2.50                      5.98                     3.48
  Quang Hue                 2.10                      3.OO                     0.9

Farmers' capacity topay. Comparison o f farm budgetswith and without the project indicate that
incrementalnet farm revenues will exceed incremental irrigation charges. As a result o f the
project, incremental financial returns per farm hectare from the typical cropping pattern range
from VND 0.9 million inQuang Hue up to VND 3.48 million inCam Son - Cau Son (Table
A9.4). This farm financial benefit is robust enough to improve farmers' willingness to enter into
irrigation service contracts and pay water fees. Moreover, irrigation service fees are not
expected to increase, rather irrigation service coverage will increase. Since farmers who receive
good irrigation service typically pay, it i s reasonable to assume that farmers who have their
service upgraded will also be willing to pay.

Typical irrigation fees, taxes and crop production costs are less than 50% o f gross crop revenue.
The most significant agricultural tax i s land tax (10% o f production). Combined with other
charges levied such as local roads levy, social security contribution, etc. the irrigated farm pays
fees and taxes totaling around 20% - 25% o fproduction. These are well within the calculated
farm budget margins.

IMCfinanciaZ viability. Increased revenues to IMCs are expected from (i)         increase inarea
under contract irrigation service; and (ii)  improved rate o f irrigation water fee collection.
Currently, the collection area averages 40% o f the command area inthe sub-projects. Raising the
collection efficiency rate and the contracted area is critical to ensure the longer term
sustainability o f the system infrastructure. Ina "virtuous circle", increased revenues will ensure
requiredO&M i s carried out and systems do not deteriorate and threaten service quality and
water users' willingness to pay fees. Inassessingthe financial viability o f IMCs, three factors
need to be considered: 1) the total contracted area that would serve as the revenue base for water
collection; 2) the collection efficiency o f water charges; and 3) the total O&M requirement for
the irrigation system. Hence, the financial analysis o f IMCs future performance is conducted
based on with-project projections usingthe following assumptions:



* NIAPP study inTay Ninhpilot area, DauTieng sub-project.


                                                   73

    Contracted area to area increases to 75% o f command area, with a collection rate o f 90%.
    Staff expenditures do not change.
    Actual maintenance expenditures reach national standards, estimated at US$ 1O/ha inthe
    command area at the end o f the project period.
    Maintenance requirement will be reduced from US$ 15/ha to U S $ 10/ha during the project
    period as the system infrastructure i s rehabilitated.

Currently, all IMCs except D a Ban show a poor performance with net losses requiring
government subsidies and significant deferredmaintenance. Assuming required maintenance o f
225,000 Dong/ha (US$ 15/ha) due to the degraded condition o f the system infrastructure, actual
O&M expenditures fall below required levels by 50 to 70% while actual maintenance
expenditures represent only 15 to 30% o fmaintenance requirements. Despite the low allocation
of funds to maintenance, subsidies from provincial governments remain highdue to insufficient
I M C revenues from water fees. The only exception is D aBan where more efforts are made to
collect water fees and generate higher revenues.

Underthe after project scenario, IMCs should not require government operational subsidiesand
achieve general national maintenance standards o f approximately 150,000 Donglha (US$1O/ha).
The exception i s Cau Son-Cam Son where the use o f drainage pumps to drain waterlog areas
induce additional fuel and electricity expenses o f approximately VND 1.7 billion annually. These
costs are usually subsidized by the Bac Giang provincial Government because they provide
regional drainage services. Nevertheless, the subsidies needed to cover O&M costs, including
drainage costs, inCau Son-Cam Son will be significantly reduced from VND 2.3 billion to VND
0.5 billionunder the after project scenario. The development o f asset management plans under
the project will specify with more precisionthe actual maintenance needs for each subproject,
and adjustments in irrigation fees can be made accordingly. I M C financial sustainability - in
terms o f cost recovery and financing O&M -would be at risk ifIMC performance were weak in
delivering upon irrigation service contracts, and following up by collecting water fees. This
should be closely monitored and supervised during implementation. Table A9.5 provides a
summary o f the modeled I M C financial positions:

Fiscal impact on the provincial government is expected to be approximately neutral. Tax
revenueswill increase due to incremental farm production, and the elimination o f subsidiesto
IMCs will reduce provincial expenditures. Land tax i s the major agricultural tax revenue
instrument and i s levied on farmers at a rate o f 10%o f the paddy-equivalent value o f production
and is collectedby commune authorities. For example in the Dau Tieng sub-project the projected
annual incremental State tax revenue o f VND13.8 billion (US$0.9 million) annually. Inaddition,
increasedrevenuefrom water fees will help reduce or eliminate subsidies to IMCs and generate,
inall sub-projects except Cau Son-Cam Son, positivenet cash-flows to the provinces.
Provincial governments, however, will be requiredto repay approximately 20% o f all project
costs to the Central government. Although the exact terms and conditions o f the repayment are
still not finalized, the financial analysis assumes a 15-year repayment period at a 0.75% interest
rate starting inYear 4 o f the project. The increase intax revenues, combined with I M C
surpluses, approximately cover the debt service costs. Alternatively, the provincial governments
could reduce the tax rate and charge higher water fees to cover the debt service costs. During
project implementation detailed financial management plans will be developed for each IMC.



                                                   74

Annual loan repayment and total expected incrementalrevenue at provincial levels are presented
inTable A9.6.




  Sub-project                      IMC              Subsidies       Total budget "           O&M           Deferred O&M        Budget
                                   revenues                                                  needs2                            surplus

  Yen Lap:
     Before project                  3,041              14             3,055                    4,427         1,312               0
     After project                   4,343             0               4,343                    3,789         0                   554
  CamSon
     Before project                  3,444             2,299           5,143                    10,077        4,334               0
     After project                   7,860             502              8,362                   8,362         0                   0
  K e Go:
     Before project                  3,250              120             3,370                   7,173         3,803               0
     After project                   5,151             0                5,751                   5,681         0                   16
  PhuNinh:
     Before project                  3,576             724             4,300                    7,416         3,176               0
     After project                   1,202             0                7,202                   6,099         0                    1,103
  Da Ban:
     Before project                  2,218             0                2,218                   3,301         1,392               0
     After project                   4,825             0                4,825                   2,614         0                   2,151
  Tay Ninh:
     Before project                  4,358             3,863            8,220                    16,875       8,655               0
     After project              ,     14,015       ,    o               14,075                   12,831  ,    0                    1,204




`Annual loan repnyment are estimated based on the nssumption thnt provincinl government nre responsiblefor the reimbursement of 20% ofthe
total cost ofirrigation modernization investment. Annuities are calculated at on interest rate ofO.75% over a 15-year periodstartingfrom Yenr 4
                                                                                             .$
of theproject. aJer n 3-yenr graceperiodfor principle and interest.




                                                                       75

                                Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues
                 VIETNAM WATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT

Summary

The project environmental screening category is "A" (full assessment); and the policies triggered
are listed below.




    [ 10 1  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                           1No

The EIA studies were carried out for the six subprojects under Component 1 and the Quang Hue-
Vu Gai subproject under Component 3. The studies commented that according to the nature o f
the activities, mostly rehabilitation and upgrading o f existing schemes, the negative impacts
would be similar to those o f the category "B" type and no adverse impacts that are irreversible
are anticipated. Most o f the impacts can be mitigatedthrough effective implementation o fthe
environmental management plans.

Feasibility studies and preliminary engineering designs have been completed for first phase of
works which cover: Component 1-dams, main canals, and 20% o f the command areas;
Component 2-Hoa Binh dam instrumentation; and Component 3-Quang Hue river works. The
following activities, however, have not been fully formulated duringproject preparation, and
thus were not subject to full environmental assessment: i)subsequent phases o f irrigation
upgrading under Component 1;and ii)remedial safety works for dams to be identified inthe
MARDDam Safety Program inComponent 2. The impacts o fthe unidentified investmentsare
expected to be relatively small and similar innature to those identified inthe EIA. Inorder to
address this issue, an Environment and Social Safeguard Framework (ESSF) has been prepared
and will be applied to all investments identified during the follow-on phases. A number o f other
related reports i.e. Consultation Report, Social Assessment Reports, Resettlement Action Plan,
Resettlement Policy Framework, Ethnic Minority Development Planwere also prepared and
submitted to the Bank.

Safeguard-RelatedRisks:

Dam safety i s the most important safeguard-related risk, and the issue was addressed extensively
duringthe project design. A dam safety review was carried out by an international consultant and
a number o f recommendations were incorporated inthe design o f the project. All the dams



                                                 76

involved inthe project were reviewed for safety conditions and the priority actions were included
inthe project. An independent panelof dam safety experts will be formed underthe project to
guide the development of the overall dam safety program inVietnam. Other safeguard risks
associated with the project are unexploded ordnances (UXO), loss o f natural habitats, and
degradation o f water quality. However, mitigation plans have been prepared and will be
implemented and monitored closely.

Consultations

A numbero fconsultations with concemed agencies and affected populationwere carried out
duringthe preparationof the EIAs/SIAs and RAPs. The first roundconsultationwas made
duringthe initial stage of the EIAs/SIAs/RAPs through questionnaires and selective meetings
and discussion with the local authorities, identifiedproject affected people, and relevant
stakeholders o f the pilot areas. The second consultation was carried out through a workshop atDo
Son, Haiphong province inJuly 2003 when the draft final EIAs/RAPswere available. Additional
consultations at each subproject were made inlate August 2003 to discuss the EIA findings, and
the respective RAPs with the local authorities and communities. The consolidatedconsultation
results are presented in a "Consultation Report" which i s a volume inthe EIA report.

Specific Safeguard Issues

OP4.01 EAs/SAs.While the project is classified as category A, result o f the EIA suggested that
the scale and magnitude o f the potential impacts are more like category B. Most o f the impacts
are site-specific, none are irreversible. Direct impacts on environmental sensitive areas such as
wetlands, forests, or other natural habitat i s very limited, and will be compensated as much as
possible. The EMP for the project includes the actions to mitigate the impacts duringpre-
construction and construction stages as well as those to reduce the incremental impacts from
other non-irrigation uses. The investment activities to be identified and carried out duringthe
follow-on phase o f the project will be subject to Environmental and Social Safeguards
Framework (ESSF), Resettlement Policy Framework (WF, and Ethnic Minority Development
Plan (EMDP) as needed.

OP 4.04 Natural Habitat. There will be a small loss o fnatural habitat, no more than 10ha, in
the Yen Lap Watershed Protection Forest from the construction o f an emergency spillway, which
will be compensated for by reforestation inthe Yen Lap Watershed Protection Forest. For other
subprojects, there may be loss o f natural habitat due to extraction o f construction materials and
excavation o f soil for earth-fill. Enforceable contract provisions governing the transport, as well
as the sources o f construction materials, are specified inthe EIA.Biddocuments and
construction contracts will require the acquisition o f construction material (sand, gravel and
other materials) to meet stipulated environmental management standards, and only existing
authorized borrow pits and licensedquarries are to be used.Measures for site stabilization and
erosion control, rehabilitation and restoration to original are included inthe EMP.The definition
of natural habitats will include protected areas, known natural habitats, or established or
proposed critical habitats as defined under the policy.

OP 4.30 PesticideManagement. The project will not finance the purchase o f any pesticides or
herbicides. Under current cultivation practices, pesticides are used extensively, and it i s



                                                   77

estimated approximately two-thirds o f the farmers inthe project area have not received training
inintegrated pest management (IPM). Modemization ofirrigation schemes would increase crop
diversification and cropping intensity, which could lead to increased pesticide use. A national
IntegratedPest Management program already exists and i s beingimplemented ineach subproject
province. Duringimplementation, each subproject province will prepare a plan for IPM activities
and submit a report to IDA describing the extent o f the problem, training program, and
recommendations for improvements. Ifjustified, the project will provide supplemental funding
to support the IPMprogram.

OP3.36 Forestry. About 10ha of watershed protection forest will be lost due to the construction
o f a new emergency spillway at Yen Lap and there may be some loss inthe Duong MinhChau
and Boi Loi Nature Reserve after completion o f the canal systems. The recommendations
included reforestation of 20 ha within Yen Lap Protected Forest and reforestation o f the local
natural reserve ifprotected land will be lost. These losses will be mitigated under the Natural
Habitat Policy above, and thus the Bank's East Asia Safeguard Unit has determined that Forestry
Safeguard policy is not triggered.

OPN11.03 Cultural Property. Applied for Cua Son-Cam Son due the presence of an historic
hydraulic structure constructed inthe early 1900s. Safeguard screening will be made duringthe
implementation to ensure that this policy will not be triggered for other subprojects.

004.30 Involuntary Resettlement. Seven Resettlement Action Plans have beenprepared for
Phase Iactivities, and a Resettlement Policy Framework has beenformulated to guide
resettlement planning in subsequent phases during implementation. These resettlement action
plans and policy have beenreviewed and cleared by IDA. The Prime Minster's Office in
Vietnam has approved the Resettlement Policy Framework, and MARD has approved the
specific subproject RAPS.The total estimated amount o f affected land inPhase 1i s 272 has,
affecting 10,896 households. Over 99% o f the affectedhouseholds have less than 20% o f their
land holdings affected, and more than halfo f these households will only experience temporary
land acquisition needed for construction purposes. All feasible efforts to reduce resettlement
impacts were adopted duringproject preparation. Only 10households inthe Yen Lap subproject
will needto be relocated, and only 45 households will lose more than 20% o f their land. The
summary table on the impacts i s presented below:




                                                78

                                 Summary o f Land Impacts (Phase 1)

          Subprojects           CauSon   Phu    KeGo      Yen     DaBan    Dau      Quang     Total
                               CamSon    Ninh             Lap              Tieng     Hue
                     I

       Resident       Perm(m2)    6,885     373     550   11,858   20,369    1,078              41,113
                      Temp (m2)   32,381    150   1,680   3,068    93,954    1,344        -     132,577


     Agriculture      Perm (m2)   30,018 10,487  35,372  233,333   29,158  534,346 157,918    1,030,632

                      Temp (m2)  198,043 26,168  126,785 112,480  192,541  248,018 586,209    1,490,244

    Aquaculture       Perm (m2)    2,565              -    5,828    1,880    3,057               13,330
                      Temp (m2)   6,171               -    3,562      820    3,057               13,610

   Forest/Orchard     Perm (m2)                                     1,260                         1,260
                      Temp (m2)                                     5,340                         5,340
 Total Land loss Perm
        (m2)                      39,468  10,860  35,922  251,019  52,667  538,481   157,918 1,086,335
 Total Land loss Temp
         (m2)                    236,595  26,318 128,465  119,l 10 292,655 252,419   586,209 1,641,771
Total Impact on Land             276,063  37,178 164,387  370,129 345,322  790,900   744,127 2,728,107

OP 4.37 Safety ofDams, Applied for all subprojects, except for Quang Hue river works. The
dam safety aspects have been integratedinthe Project and dam safety activities will be
implemented inthe Project. An independent panel o f dam safety experts will be formed under
the project to review dam safety works financed by the Project, and advise on the national dam
safety program as requested.

OP 4.20 IndigenousPeoples. Social assessment exercises have been carried out inthe project
areas to identify and assess project impacts on them. There are ethnic minority groups inthe
project areas and they are expected to benefit from the project. There are ethnic minority groups
inPhaseIareas for the Cam Son subproject, and an ethnic minoritydevelopment planhas been
prepared. A policy framework for ethnic minority people's development has been prepared to
guide planning o f investment activities inPhase 11.

OP7.60 Projects in Disputed Areas. Not triggered since none o f the activities would involve
disputed areas.

OP 7.50International Waterways. Not triggered as none o fthe water bodies or their tributaries
associated with the irrigation schemes o f the VWRAP form a boundary between, or flow through
the territory o f another country. The Hoa Binhreservoir is located on the D a River, which
originates in China and then flows into Vietnam. The dam safety instrumentation financed under
the project will not, however, impact the flow regime.

Mitigation Plans

Environmental Management Plans (EMPs), Resettlement Action Plans (RAPS),and Ethnic
Minority Development Plans (EMDPs) were prepared for the lst       phase investments. Impacts on
resettlement, land acquisition, and indigenous people will be reduced through effective
implementation o f the agreed RAPSand EMDP.For subsequent phases, an Environmental and
Social Safeguard Framework (ESSF), a Resettlement Policy Framework, and Ethnic Minority


                                                 79

Policy Framework have been prepared and reviewedby the Bank.Where appropriate, additional
EMPs and RAPSwill beprepared for subsequent phases. The estimated total cost o fVWRAP
EMP is US $1.1 million, and the RAP for Phase 1is US$3.0million. Based on extrapolation,
RAP costs for subsequent phases under Component 1are roughly estimated at US$4.2 million,
but will need to be confirmed after engineeringdesigns and field surveys are completed. These
costs have been included inoverall project cost. EMP costs will be financed with the IDA credit,
while land acquisition costs will are the responsibility o fthe GOVN.

The EMP lays out the necessary mitigation and monitoring measures. Impacts during
constructionwill be reduced through specific planning inconsultation with water users; good
construction and work camp practices; and close monitoring o f the contractor's compliance.
Enforceable contract provisions governing the transport, as well as the sources o f construction
materials, are specified inthe EIA. Bid documents and construction contracts will require the
acquisition o f construction material (sand, gravel and other materials) to meet stipulated
environmentalmanagement standards, and only existing authorizedborrow pits and licensed
quarries are to be used. Measures for timely site stabilization and erosion control are included in
the EMP.

To address impacts caused by irrigation scheme operation, each province will develop Strategic
Environmental Action Plan that analyzes the following issues inso far as they relate to irrigation
scheme operation: (a) Design of Water Quality MonitoringProgram; (b) Aquaculture; (c)
Municipal and Industrial Pollution Control; (d) Reservoir Watershed Management; and (e) Other
issues, The Action Plan will identify immediate actions necessary to address identified problems,
and also prepare funding request for VWRAP support. The on-going IntegratedPest
Management (LPM) program in each province will be assessed, and ifjustified, provided with
supplemental funding through the project.

Resettlement Legacy Issues

Since VWRAP finances dam safety works on seven existingdams, resettlement legacy issues
were examined. The ESSD Safeguard Unit provided guidance on this issue, and advised that: i)a
rapid assessment o f legacy issues associated with any dam should be undertaken during
preparation; ii)ifthere i s a resettlement legacy issue and the construction o f the dam was
originally financed by the World Bank, then a resettlement rehabilitation program should be
financed under the project; and iii)ifthere are resettlement legacy issues, but the Bank did not
finance the construction o f the dam, then the Bank will consider requests by the Government to
finance a resettlement rehabilitation program.

A rapid assessmentwas undertakento assess the extent o fresettlement legacy issues. O fthe
seven sub-projects areas, only Dau Tieng was financed by the World Bank. This project was
approved in 1978 and construction took place during the early-1980s. The assessment indicated
that there are no outstanding resettlement problems associated with Dau Tieng, mainly because
the reservoir area was essentially uninhabited because o f wartime conflict inthe area throughout
most o fthe 1960s and 1970s. Ofthe other six sub-project areas, only Hoa Binhand PhuNinh,
the most recently constructed dams, have legacy issues.




                                                  80

  Approximately 1,200 households moved in 1979-1980 to make way for the Phu Ninhreservoir,
  all o f them from the majority Kinh group. According to the social assessment, the living
  standards o f the resettled people have been restored to the pre-project conditions, but since the
  new communities are outside the PhuNinhirrigation system command area, the villagers lack
  access to irrigation water. Provincial officials have requested assistance from MARD inthe
  construction o f small-scale irrigation systems under the project, and that proposalwill be
  appraised by MARD and IDA during implementation.

  More than 200 km long and with a surface area o f 208 square kilometers, Hoa Binhi s the largest
  reservoir inVietnam. VWRAP will finance dam safety monitoring equipment and will not
  impact on people resettled from the dam. Over a period o f 16 years, around 9,000 households,
  including approximately 50,000 mostly ethnic Tai Dam people, were displaced without an
  adequate resettlement program. There are significant resettlement legacy issues associated with
  Hoa Binh.As o f 1998, approximately 30-40% o f the dislocatedhouseholds, live inpoverty with
. food insecurity, and there is a general lack o f educational and health facilities inthe region. The
  GOVNrecognizes these problems and recently initiated poverty reductionprograms inHoaBinh
  province. The IDA financed NorthemMountains Poverty Project (FY02), although not targeted
  directly at displaced people from Hoa Binh, is providing support to approximately 60 communes
  and 140,000 people, 98% o f whom are ethnic minorities and many o f whom were dislocated by
  the reservoir.

  Institutional Arrangements

  The PMO will beresponsible for overall EMPmanagement. The PMOwill be assisted by at
  least one Environmental Consultant, selected from the qualified national organizations inViet
  Nam. The Environmental Consultant will be responsible for guiding and preparing the provincial
  Strategic Environmental Action Plans, acting general contractor for primary data collection
  surveys, preparing various compliance and effects monitoring assessment reports, and providing
  training and support for PMO, SIO, and P M U environmental staff. The PMO will have two
  environmental specialists who will take on substantial implementation tasks for the EMP: (i)      a
  national environmental specialist seconded from a nationally-recognized environmental
  management institution; and ii)an intemational environment specialist contracted through the
  TA package, as necessary. PMUs and SIOs will supervise and control the quality o f construction
  and physical implementation o f the individual subproject EMPs. Each P M U and S I 0 will also
  have an environmental staff member.MONRE and provincial/city environmental unitswill be
  responsible for regulatory reviews and approvals inaccordance with the national legal
  framework for environmental protection and management.

  The implementation o fresettlement activities requires the involvement o f agencies at the
  national, provincial, district and commune level. The Ministryo fAgriculture and Rural
  Development (MARD)will be responsible for the overall implementation o f RPF and RAPS.
  Resettlement committees shall be established at the provincial, and district level according to the
  provision o f Decree CP 22/1998. The provisions and policies o f the RPF and the RAP will form
  the legal basis for the implementation o f resettlement activities inthe VWRAP.




                                                    81

An annual report onthe implementationo fthe mitigationplan (EMP)will be prepared and
submitted to IDA for comment. An external monitor will be recruitedto carry out independent
monitoring o fRAP implementation. Environmental and Resettlement consultants will behired
to assist the implementation units carry out these tasks. The progresses as well as implementation
issues will be discussed and monitored periodically by IDA.

Key Environmental Actions

   Before construction, MARD/PMO and PMUs/SIOs will complete resettlement and land
    acquisition, prepare construction plan inconsultation with local authority and water users
    groups. Close consultation with the local authority and communities will be maintained
    through out the project.

   Duringconstruction stage, PMUs/SIOs will ensure that the Project's contractors are aware of
    their environmental obligations and ready to comply before signingthe contracts. Field
    engineer will monitor the environmental performance o f the contractors. Records must be
   kept inthe monitoring file. The EnvironmentalConsultants will review the monitoring
   records and monitor the environmental condition, including the borrowing pits, and submit
   the monitoring reports. The monitoring plan will be prepared in line with the construction
   plan.

    To address operational issues, each province, with the assistance o f the Environmental
    Consultants, will develop a Strategic Environmental Action Plan that analyzes the following
    issues in so far as they relate to irrigation scheme operation: (a) Design o f Water Quality
    Monitoring Program; (b) Aquaculture; (c) Municipal and Industrial Pollution Control; (d)
    Reservoir Watershed Management; and (e) Other issues. The Action Plan will identify
    immediate actions necessary to address identifiedproblems, and also prepare fundingrequest
    for VWRAP support. The on-going IntegratedPest Management (IPM) program ineach
    province will be assessed, and ifjustified, provided with supplemental funding through the
    project.

    Duringfollow-on phases, PMOassisted by the Environmental Consultant will undertake
    screening process as described inthe ESSF. Ifthe impacts are significant, consultation with
    IDAwill be necessary and assistance from international consultants may be required.
    Monitoring o f the agreed mitigation plans will be carried out through out the project.

Key Resettlement Actions

P Information Dissemination Prior to Detailed Design. Prior to the commencement of
    detailed design, PMUs/SIOs will provide information about the Project throughout the
    project area. Information meetings will be held in all potentially affected commune to inform
    the communities about (i) project scope, (ii)impacts, (iii)
                                  the                                   entitlements for all categories
    o f loss, (iv) schedule o f activities beginning with the detailed design survey, (iv) institutional
    responsibilities, and (v) the grievance mechanism. The project information brief will be
    prepared and distributed to all affected communities duringthe meetings.




                                                   82

P Establishment of Resettlement Committees. All provinces will establish their resettlement
  committees at provincial and district level as soon as the Project i s effective.

P Training for Resettlement StafJ: Within 2 months of mobilization o f the resettlement
  consultants for the PMO, all local resettlement staff at PMUs and SIOs, and provincial,
  district, and commune levels will be trained by the P M O assisted by the consultants. Training
  subjects will include:
      (i)     procedures for preparing the RAPs;
      (ii)    consultation and information dissemination methods;
      (iii)   principles, policies, and entitlements o f the RAPS;
      (iv)    implementation steps, procedures, and schedule;
      (v)     grievance redress mechanism; and
      (vi)    powers and obligations o f individualdagencies involved inthe process o f
              resettlement programs.

P Updating Compensation Rates. Duringthe preliminary detailed designprocess, the
  Provincial People's Committee will update unit rates at replacement cost for all categories o f
  loss and adjust allowances to account for inflation. This will be done inconsultation with
  project affected people and local government agencies.

P Detailed Measurement Survey (DMS). Before each new phases o fthe VWRAP new DMS
  will be conducted ineach subproject area after completion o f the detailed design. These
  surveys will serve as a basis for compensation and new RAPs. Data will be computerizedby
  PMO.

P Pricing Application and Compensation toProject Affected People (PAP).Resettlement
  committees at all levels will be responsible for pricing application and preparing
  compensation charts for each affected communeidistrict. These will be subject to verification
  by PMUBIO, PPCs, and PMO o funit prices, quantity o f affected assets, PAP entitlements,
  etc. before posting them at each commune for the people to review and comment. All
  compensation forms must be checked and signed by the project affected people to indicate
  their agreement.

P Compensationand Allowances will behandledat commune level under the supervision o f
  representatives o f District Resettlement Committees and PMU/SIO. Guidance will be given
  by PMU/SIOs to aid local resettlement committees inmaking payments to PAP.

P Monitoring and Evaluation. Internal and external monitoring shall start as soon as the
  updated RAPs have been approved. Monitoringwill continue throughout the construction
  period. A replacement cost survey should be conductedby the external monitoring
  organizationprior to or during DMS to update and advise Provincial Peoples Committee on
  compensation rates. A post-resettlement evaluation will also be undertakenby the external
  monitoring organization 6 to 12 months after completion o f all resettlement activities.




                                                83

                         Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                VIETNAM WATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                                   Planned                    Actual
PCNreview                                         June 2000              September 2000
InitialPID to PIC                                 May 2000                 August 2000
Initial ISDS to PIC                               May 2000                 August 2000
Appraisal                                        October 2001              October 2003
Negotiations                                     January 2002             February 2004
Board/RVP approval                                March 2002                March 2004
Planned date o f effectiveness                                               July 2004
Planned date o f mid-term review                                     Review 1: January 2006
                                                                     Review 2: January 2009
Planned closing date                                                      December 2011
Note: Planneddates taken from Project Concept Review Meeting. PHRD-financed project
preparation consultants were mobilized inApril, 2002 due to delays ingrant signing and
procurement.

The project was prepared by the Ministry o f Agriculture and Development (MARD) and the
Electricity Authority o f Vietnam (EVN). Preparation assistance to MARDwas provided through
a PHRD grant byNipponKoei in association with Royal Haskoning.

The Bank task team includes:

Name                                          Title                             Unit
GregBrowder                    Task Team Leader (7/01-Present)                EASRD
William Cuddihy                 Task Team Leader (1/OO-6101)                  EASRD
Cuong HungPham              Operations OfficerKO-Task Team Leader             EASRD
Geoffrey Spencer                      Irrigation Engineer                     EASRD
Herve Plusquellec                     Irrigation Engineer                    Consultant
Xiaolan Wang                           Operations Officer                     EASRD
HungViet L e                   Financial Management Specialist                EAPCO
Thang Chien Nguyen                  Procurement Specialist                    EAPCO
Hoa Thi MongPham                       Social Specialist                      EASES
Chaohua Zhang                          Social Specialist                      EASES
Manida Unkulvasapaul                Environment Specialist                    EASES
Vinh Quoc Duong                     Environment Specialist                    EASES
Jean-Philippe Tre                          Economist                          EASRD
Hoi-ChanNguyen                          Legal Counsel                         EALEG

The Following firms and individuals assisted the Bank inproject preparation and were fundedby
Bank-executed consultant trust funds:




                                                84

                Name                             Assignment                     Year
Snowy Mountain Engineering          Screen and Identify Component 1
Company (SMEC)                      Subprojects                                          2001

cowl                                Screen and Identify Central Coast
                                     Basin for Component 3                                2001
Haskoning                            Dam Safety Study                                     2002
                                    Advice to MARD on Conceptual
BRL Engineering                      Design of Dau Tieng Subproject                  2002-2003

Roquet & Associates; and Norweigan Advice to Client on Thu Bon Basin
Institute for Water and Environment /Planning and Prioritization of ProjectI         2002-2003
                                   lAdvice to Client on Resettlement,

Uniquest Ltd.                      IProject Economic Analysis                             2003

Bank-managed funds expended on project preparation are estimated at US$1.5 million, with
Bank resources providing approximately US$940,000, and consultant trust funds providing
US$560,000. The estimated annual supervision costs are US$175,000.




                                                       85

                           Annex 12: Documentsin the ProjectFile
                VIETNAM WATER RESOURCES ASSISTANCE PROJECT

TechnicalStudies

1, VWRAP Pre-Feasibility Study (June 2003) byNipponKoei/Haskoning.
2. VWRAP FeasibilityStudy Main Report and SevenAnnexes (November 2003) by Nippon
  Koei/Haskoning.
3. VWRAP Advice on Dam Safety (May 2001) by Haskoning.
4. EVNPreliminary Feasibility Study for Dam Safety, Audit Report, includingHoaBinh,
   (April 2002) by Hydro Quebec International.
5, EVN Hoa BinhModernization of MonitoringInstrumentation Feasibility Study (March,
   2003) and SupplementalReport (June 2003) by Power Engineering Company.
6. Report on the Priority Investments on the Thu Bon Basin (August, 2002) by Vietnam
   Institute of Water ResourcesPlanning.
7. VWRAP Project Implementation Plan, December 2003.

Environmental Studies

1. VWRAP EIA MainReport (Vol. 1) Annexes (Vol. 2), and Consultation Report (Vol. 3)
   Ministry o f Agriculture andDevelopment, preparedby GEC Global Environmental
   Consultants andVietnam Center o f Biotechnology and Life.

Social Studies

1. VWRAP Resettlement Action Plan for Seven Subprojects, November 2003.
2. VWRAP Resettlement and Ethnic Minority Policy Frameworks, November 2003.
3. VWRAP Ethnic Minority Development Plan (EMDP), August 2003.
4. VWRAP Social Assessments for Seven Subprojects, August 2003.
5. VWRAP Gender Study, August 2003.

Bank Assessments in Project Files

1. VWRAP Economic and Financial Analysis, preparedby Jean-Phillipe Tre, October 2003.
2. VWRAP Financial Management Assessment, preparedby Xiaolan Wang, September 2003
3. VWRAP Procurement Assessment, preparedby Thang ChienNguyen, September 2003.




                                              86

                                       Annex 13: Statement of Loansand Credits
                         VIETNAM WATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                                                                                     Differencebetween
                                                                                                     expectedand actual
                                                                                                        disbursements

Project ID FY   PUlQOSe                                 IBRD    IDA      SF   GEF   Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.     Frm. Rev'd
PO44803    2003 VN-PRIMARY EDUC FOR                       0.00 138.76    0.00  0.00   0.00  139.44    2.67        0 00
                DISADVANTEGED CHILRE
PO75398    2003 Vieham PRSC I1                            0.00 100.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   99.48    0.00        0 00
PO75399    2003 Public Financial Management Reform        0.00   54.33   0.00  0.00   0.00   54.80    0.00        0 00
                Proj.
PO51838    2002 VN-PRIMARY TEACHER                        0.00   19.84   0.00  0.00   0.00   20.65    5.04        0 00
                DEVELOPMENT
PO66396    2002 VN-SYSTEM ENERGY,                         0.00 225.00    0.00  0.00   0.00  247.88   28.70        0 00
                EQUITIZATION& RENEWAB
PO59936    2002 VN -Northern Mountains Poverty            0.00 110.00    0.00  0.00   0.00  112.56   21.39        0 00
                Reduction
PO73305    2002 VN-Regional Blood TransfusionCenters      0.00   38.20   0.00  0.00   0.00   42.19     8.45       0 00
PO72601    2002 VN - Rural Finance 11Project              0.00 200.00    0.00  0.00   0.00  185.28   -19.19       0 00
PO52037    2001 VN-HCMC ENVMTLSANIT.                      0.00 166.34    0.00  0.00   0.00  170.77    11.71       5 11
PO62748    2001 VN -COMMUNITY BASED RURAL                 0.00 102.78    0.00  0.00   0.00  109.19    -5.11       0 00
                INFRA.
PO42927    2001 VN-Mekong Transport/Flood Protection      0.00 110.00    0.00  0.00   0.00  108.47    66.31       0 00
PO42568    2000 VN - COASTAL Wetliprot Dev                0.00   31.80   0.00  0.00   0.00   29.77    2 I.43      0 00
PO56452    2000 VN-RURAL ENERGY                           0.00 150.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   82.12    71.29       0 00
PO59864    2000 VN-RURAL TRANSPORT I1                     0.00 103.90    0.00  0.00   0.00   49.31    21.28       0 00

PO04828    1999 VN-HIGHER EDUC.                           0.00   83.30   0.00  0.00   0.00   64.72    45.94      I6 70
PO04845    1999 VN - MEKONG DELTA WATER                   0.00 101.80    0.00  0.00   0.00    82.37   70.63       0 00
PO04833    1999 VN-Urban Transport Improvement            0.00   42.70   0.00  0.00   8.19   21.05    29.02        8 57
PO51553    1999 VN-3 CITIES SANITATION                    0.00   80.50   0.00  0.00   0.00    62.48   30.09       0 00
PO04839    1998 VN - FOREST PROT.& RULDE                  0.00   21.50   0.00  0.00   0.00    17.49   15.33        7 52
PO04843    1998 VN-Inland Waterways                       0.00   73.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    53.00   5 1.56       5 45
PO04844    1998 VN-AGRIC. DIVERSIFICATION                 0.00   66.90   0.00  0.00   0.00    36.34   19.19        6 49

PO45628    1998 VN-TRANSMISSION & DISTR                   0.00 199.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   114.23  114.92        6 29

PO04830    1997 VN-WATER SUPPLY                           0.00   98.61   0.00  0.00  3 I.28   16.98   53.59        5 66
PO04841    1996 VN-POPULATION & FAMILY HEALTH             0.00   50.00   0.00  0.00   0.00     2.03    7.20        0 00

PO36042    1996 BANKING SYSTEM                            0.00   49.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    22.91   27.67      27 66
                MODERNIZATION
PO04838    1996 VN-NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPORT                0.00 101.20    0.00  0.00   0.00    33.61   42.96        0 00

                                                 Total:   0.00 2,518.46  0.00  0.00  39.47  1,979.12 742.07      89.45




                                                              87

                   VIETNAM WATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                              STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                           Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                             InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                      Committed                           Disbursed

                                                     IFC                                IFC
FY Approval Company                      Loan       Equity    Quasi   Partic. Loan      Equity      Quasi  Partic.

2003        ACB-Vietnam                  0.00         5.02     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00     0.00
2002        AZ1AGF Vietnam               0.00         1.32     0.00    0.00      0.00    1.32       0.00     0.00
2002        CyberSoft                    0.00         1.25     0.00    0.00      0.00    1.25       0.00     0.00
2002        DragonCapital                0.00         2.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    2.00       0.00     0.00
2002        F-V Hospital                 5.00         0.00     3.oo    0.00      4.21    0.00        3.00    0.00
2003        Glass Egg                    0.00         1.75     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00        0.00    0.00
1996        Holcim Vietnam               18.54        0.00     0.00   31.29     18.54    0.00        0.00   31 29
I998        MFL Vinh Phat                0.15         0.00     0.00    0.00      0.15    0.00        0.00    0.00
1997        NATL                         14.56        0.00     0.00   11.34     14.56    0.00        0.00   11.34
1995197     Nghi Son Cement              16.99        0.00     0.00   12.43     16.99    0.00        0.00   12.43
2001        RMlT Vietnam                 7.25         0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00        0.00    0.00
1996        SMH Glass Co.                6.11         0.00     0.00    0.56      6.11    0.00        0.00    0.56
2003        Sacombank                    0.00         2.93     0.00    0.00      0.00    2.77        0.00    0.00
2002103     VEIL                         0.00         8.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00        0.00    0.00
I996        VILC                         0.00         0.75     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.75        0.00    0.00

                        Total portfilio:  68.60      23.02     3.00   55.62     60.56    8.09        3.00   55.62




                                                                 Approvals PendingCommitment

             FY Approval    Company                          Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic.

             2002           F-V Hospital                   0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
             2000           lnterflour                     0.01         0.00       0.00       0.01
             1999           MFL Chau Giang                 0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
             I999           MFL Minh Minh                  0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
             2000           MFL Mondial                    0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
             2000           MFL-AA                         0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00

                                  Total pendingcommitment:    0.01      0.00       0.00       0.01




                                                          88

                                                  Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                          VIETNAMWATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                                                   East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Asia B     Low-
                                                      Vietnam    Pacific  income        Development diamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                             80.5    1838      2,495                 Life expectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                           430      950       430
GNI(Atlasmethod. US$ billions)                             34.8    1740      1,072                        -
Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population (%)                                               1.3      1.0       1.9
Laborforce(%)                                               1.7       1.2      2.3      GNI                                Gross

M o s t recent estlmate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                capita                        enrollment
                                                                                                          1
Poverty (76 of populationbelownationalpoveriyline)
Urbanpopulation (%oftotalpopulation)                        25        38       30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                             70        69       59
Infant mortality(per 1OOOlivebirths)                        26        33        81
Child malnutrition (%of children under 5)                   34         5                     Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source (%ofpopulation)          77        76       76
Illiteracy (%ofpopu/ation age ?5+)                            7        U        37
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age population)        0 6       0 6        95                  Vietnam
   Male                                                    0 9       0 5       0 3                   Low-incomegroup
   Female                                                   0 2      0 6        87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                1982      1992     2001     2002
                                                                                        Economlc ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                  ..      9.9     32.7       35.1
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                       ..     U.6       31.2      32.1
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                   ..     34.7     54.6      55.5                      Trade

Gross domestic savingslGDP                          ..     U.6      28.8       28.1
Gross national savingsiGDP                                          30.9

Current account balance/GDP                         ,,     -0.8       1.6      -1.5     Domestic
Interest paynentsiGDP                               ..      0.4        1.1     0.8      savings                   + Investment
Total debtiGDP                                      ..    246.6     38.5      38.0
Total debt serviceiexports                                  7.1      6.7       5.9
Present value of debt/GDP                                           33.5
Present valueof debt/exports                                        60.8                             Indebtedness
                                    1982-92 1992-02       2001    2002 2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       5.2     7.4       6.9      7.0                             Vietnam

GDP percapita                             2.9     5.8       5.5      5.7                              Low-incomegroup
                                                                                        r                                          I


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                                1982      1992     2001     2002        Growth o f Investment and GDP (%)
(%ofGDPj
Agriculture                                                33 9     232       230       15T


industry                                                   27 3      381      385                                                  I
   Manufacturing                                           5 4       8 8      206    ~l:
Services                                                   388      386       385    -~0
Private consumption                                        80 7     648       657              47    98     99   00    01        0;
                                                                                       ~
Generalgovernment consumption                               5 8      6 3       6 2
imports of goods and services                              38 8     569       595                       GDI      -GDP


                                             1982.92 1992-02       2001     2002        Growth o f exports and Imports     ( O h )
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                       3 1       4 2      3 0        4 1  50

industry                                          5 0       I12      0 4       9 4   40

   Manufacturing                                   19       113      113       116   30

Services                                          7 9       6 6       6 1      6 5   20
                                                                                        10
Private consumption                                         5 0      5 6       7 9
Generalgovernment consumption                               3 4      6 6       5 4
Gross domestic investment                                  0 8       0 8       0 6                    Exports   --o-lnporls
Imports of goods and services                              23 9      23       222




                                                                          89


MAP SECTION


