Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIClAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13837
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2431-IND)
DECEMBER 30, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At project appraisal US$1.00 = Rupiah (Rp) 1,000
For exchange rates during implementation, see Annex 1, Table 1
GLOSSARY
AARD               Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
ADB                Asian Development Bank
BAPPEDA            Provincial Development Planning Agency
DGFCH              Directorate-General of Food-Crops and Horticulture
DGWRD              Directorate-General of Water Resources Development
DOS                Directorate of Swamps
DPP                Directorate of Planning and Programming in DGWRD
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
FSRP               First Swamp Reclamation Project (Loan 1958-IND)
GOI                Government of Indonesia
HYV                High-Yielding Variety
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IPEDA              Land Tax (now replaced by PBB)
ISDP               Proposed Integrated Swamps Development Project
ISSP               Irrigation Subsector Project (Loan 2880-IND)
ISSP II            Irrigation Subsector II (O&M) Project (Loan 3392-IND)
KA                 Karang Agung
KCI                Potassium Chloride
LCB                Local Competitive Bidding
MOT                Ministry of Transmigration
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MUV                Manufactures Unit Value
OECF               Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
O&M                Operation and Maintenance
PCR                Project Completion Report
PWRS               Provincial Water Resources Services
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
TSP                Triple Superphosphate
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 30, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Second Swamp Reclamation Project
(Loan 2431-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Second Swamp Reclamation Project
(Loan 2431-IND). Parts I and III were prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional office. Part
H was prepared by the Borrower.
This is the second project in support of the Government of Indonesia's Swamp Reclamation
and Settlement Program. It was approved at the same time as OMS 2.36 (Environmental Aspects
of Bank Work) was issued and, yet, did not deal with the significant environmental impact of the
project on the valuable natural fauna and flora of the project area. The project, located in the
coastal swamp at Karang Agung, provided land clearing, agricultural and social infrastructure on
30,000 ha of gross swamp area, and institutional support for ministries involved. About 10,800 farm
families have been settled, which is 6 percent less than the appraisal target. The arrival of settlers
was delayed by three years due to the slow start of reclamation and poor coordination between
agencies involved. Contract disputes and design changes also caused delays in implementation.
Settlement outcomes have been mixed due to complex and often adverse soil and water
conditions. Yield projections are subject to substantial uncertainty due to variable water control and
problematic operations and maintenance arrangements. On balance, the economic rate of return
(excluding the benefits of reduced population pressures in Java and Bali) has been re-estimated to
be about 0 percent, compared with 12.5 percent estimated at appraisal. The reasons for this are:
a reduction in the cultivated area due to lack of development of the second farmlot, lower economic
prices for outputs than estimated, and the delay in the arrival of the settlers. The PCR does not
properly account for the environmental effects of the project, as required by OMS 2.36. Nor does
it specify what actions are proposed to mitigate the negative impact of settlement on the fragile and
unique ecosystem. Taking account of its pilot character, the project outcome is rated as marginally
unsatisfactory, sustainability as uncertain and institutional development as modest.
An impact evaluation may be carried out by Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment                                        C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wfthout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
(Loan 2431-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENt
Page No.
PREFACE  ......................................                                          i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................... ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   .....    1
1. Project Identity  .............................                                1
2. Background   ...............................                                   1
3. Project Objectives and Description   .................                         2
4. Project Design and Organization ...................                            3
5. Project Implementation .........................                               4
6. Project Results ..............................                                 5
7. Project Sustainability  ..........................                             7
8. Bank Performance   ...........................                                 9
9. Borrower Performance .........................                                 9
10. Project Relationships  .........................                            10
11. Consulting Services ..........................                              10
12. Project Documentation and Data  ..................                          10
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    12
A.  Comments on Part I  ..........                 ...............              12
B.   Comments on Part III  ........               ................               14
C. Bank Performance ...........................   14
D.  Borrower Performance .........                  ...............              15
E.   Bank and Borrower Relationship ......                ............           15
PART IH - STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ..............                           ...        16
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits  ....... .. ..........                        16
2. Project Timetable  ............................                               16
3. Loan Disbursements                            ..                             17
4. Project Implementation ......................                                 17
5. Project Costs and Financing   .....................                           18
A. Project Costs .......................  18
B. Project Financing ......................                                18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
6.  Project Results              ..................................                               19
A.  Direct Benefits  ........  ..  .              .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
B.  Economic Impact ........  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  19
C.  Financial Impact  ........  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .     .  20
D.  Studies  ...............................                                        21
7.  Status of Covenants ........... ..                        ..............              22
8.  Use of Bank Resources   ........................                                      23
A.  Staff Inputs  ............................                                      23
B.  Missions  ..........  .              ..  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .    .  23
ANNEX  1  - Economic Analysis  ........  .                      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  24
TABLES
1.     Exchange Rates and Price Deflators  .......  .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  28
2.      Economic Costs  ...........  ..  .                  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  .  ..    .  28
3.     Economic Conversion Factors .......  .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  29
4.      Clearance, House Construction and Settlement  ..... .                     .  .  .  .  .     .  29
5.      Area Cleared and Cropping Pattern               .....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  32
6.      Yields        .........  .          .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .    .  32
7.      Area Harvested as a Percentage of Planted Area   ..... .                    .  .  .  .     .  33
8. Crop Budgets (Rice) .33
9.      Crop Budgets (Palawija Crops - Represented by Maize) .....  .                          .  34
10.    Farm  Development Model (Area, Yields and Production) .....                             .  35
11.    Farm  Development Model (Inputs) . ... .. .. . ... . ... ....                              36
12.    Annual Production and Inputs .......  .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  37
13.    Economic Price Projections (Rice)  .......  .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  38
14.    Economic Price of Maize   ........  .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  39
15.    Economic Price Projections (Bananas and Coconuts) ..... .                        .  .     .  40
16.    Economic Price Projections for Fertilizers  .... .                  .......... .           41
17.    Economic Cash Flow   .................  ....  ...  ...                                 .   42
18.    Sensitivity Analysis  ....................  ....  ....                                  .  43
IBRD map 17329 R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
(Loan 2431-IND]
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Swamp
Reclamation Project, for which a World Bank loan of US$65 million to the Government
of the Republic of Indonesia was approved in May 1984. The original loan closing date
of 30 June 1991 was extended in three stages until 31 December 1993.  Actual
disbursements totalled US$60.8 million and US$4.2 million was cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III of this PCR were prepared
by a mission   from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program in accordance with the
guidelines for preparing PCRs, issued in June 1989. The report is based on data provided
by the Government of Indonesia, a review of World Bank records and the mission's visit
to Indonesia in November and December 1992, some one year before loan closing. The
Borrower has prepared Part II and commented on Parts I and III of the report.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
(Loan 2431 -IND]
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The major objectives of the project were to support the Swamp Reclamation
and Settlement Program of the Government of Indonesia (GOI) by reclamation of coastal
swamp at Karang Agung II in South Sumatra and to provide institutional support to the
Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Transmigration (MOT) and Ministry of Agriculture,
to improve the quality and efficiency of the program without increasing its costs.
Reclamation and settlement activities were to comprise a six-year time slice of an
eight-year program of draining, clearing and developing a gross area of about 30,000 ha
and settling about 11,500 families. Works were to include construction of land drainage,
land clearing, construction of houses and village facilities and settlement of transmigrants.
Institutional support was to include technical assistance in project preparation,
implementation management, investigation into sources of drinking water, planning for
upgrading of older schemes, planning of new development, assistance in O&M, land
preparation, agricultural research, monitoring and evaluation.
Implementation Experience
The project was implemented generally in accordance with the proposals
outlined in the SAR. The loan became effective in September 1984. The project was
completed more than two years later than the appraisal estimate. About 94 percent
(US$60.8 million) of the loan was disbursed. The total project cost was about Rp 141,000
million, about 130 percent of the appraisal estimate, but when expressed in US dollar
terms is only about US$89.4 million or about 82 percent of the SAR estimate.
The project was delayed by uncertainties over pre-qualification of
contractors for the main reclamation works and the awards of contracts. Further delays
were due to the use of unsuitable construction plant on one of the main drainage contracts
and the need to redesign secondary water-control structures. To reflect lessons learned in
the Swamp I Project, farm layout was changed in 1987 at about the same time as the first
settlers arrived, and the policy concerning land clearing was altered so that more land was
fully cleared and destumping was improved.



The project was reformulated in 1990 to overcome the implementation problems
and the loan agreement was amended. The settlement target was lowered to 10,150
families from 11,500 families.2/ The loan closing date was extended to 31 December,
1993 to: (a) complete the secondary canal structures, without which the project impact
would be reduced considerably; (b) allow consolidation of settlement and agricultural
components; (c) complete an Environmental Assessment required prior to the appraisal of
a proposed Integrated Swamps Development Project (ISDP); and (d) review the
engineering design of the first year's implementaiton program of ISDP.
Project Results
At Karung Agung II, about 30,000 ha of gross swamp area have been
successfully reclaimed under the project. About 10,800 farm families have been settled,
which is 6 percent less than the appraisal target, due to the soils in some of the area being
considered unsuitable for settlement. Development of houselots and, to a large extent, the
first farmlots, is impressive, reflecting the enthusiasm and commitment of settlers.
However, development of the second farmlots has hardly started and is unlikely to happen
in the near future due to scarcity of labor.
The economic rate of return has been re-estimated to be about 0 percent,
compared with 12.5 percent estimated in the SAR. The reasons for this include: (a) a
reduction in the cultivated area, due to lack of development of the second farmilot;
(b) projected economic prices for rice and other outputs are lower than estimated at
appraisal because of the global decline in commodity prices; and (c) some early delay in
the arrival of the settlers.
Project Sustainability
Operation and maintenance of the completed drainage infrastructure is now
being financed under the Irrigation Subsector Projects. The first 5,000 ha were due to be
transferred to the Provincial Water Resources Service (PWRS) in 1993/94 but there does
not seem to be provision for handing over or otherwise providing to PWRS adequate
offices and equipment to enable them to meet their responsibilities.
Quite complex water management options are needed to make best use of
the land, minimize siltation in the drains and prevent salt-water intrusion. These options
have been identified and are well-described in consultants reports and the O&M manual.
Little practical application of this knowledge has been made so far because the secondary
structures were completed only in 1993 and farmers and gate operators had not been
trained.
Future crop yields will depend on the use of agricultural inputs after project
completion when inputs will no longer be subsidized. Production could be constrained by
Z/  This target was later increased to 10,800 families.



- iv -
lack of input supplies and marketing facilities; the distance and cost of transport to
Palembang and the absence of credit and banking facilities.
Findings and Lessons
The project has successfully reclaimed a gross area of 30,000 ha and settled
10,800 families, but the ERR is low, mainly because the second farmplot has not yet been
developed by the settlers mainly due to lack of labor. Thanks to the good handling of
resettlement and the commitment of the settlers, this was nevertheless a successful project,
considering the complexities, remoteness of the project area and very harsh environment.
The actual cost of the land developed, including cost of settlement, is over US$5,000 per
ha. Had the second farmplot been developed, the cost of swamp drainage alone (at about
US$1,300 per ha) would not be expensive. Settlement costs are more than double of
drainage costs. Thorough soil survey enabled areas with unsuitable soils to be eliminated,
thereby enabling the settlers to farm only on better soils. Palawija crops are also grown
in the wet season, which was not expected at appraisal.
The main lessons learned are:
(a)   first stage development of swamp areas, following completion of drainage
infrastructure and settlement of transmigrants, is a slow process and more
time is required to reach the development level assumed at appraisal;
(b)   to achieve timely completion of project activities an integrated approach is
needed, which directs the implementation of construction, agricultural and
social activities in a fully coordinated manner through better coordination
between the implementing agencies and the provincial and central planning
agencies;
(c)    coordination between agencies can be difficult unless the coordinating
agency has authority over other agencies' budgets;
(d)    project activities should be planned on an annual basis, and the budget
provided should not be reduced during the year;
(e)   implementation of the annual programs should be closely monitored
through experienced project staff assisted by consultants which should be
given adequate authority; and
(f)    civil works should be packaged into large contracts, and the contractors
should be selected following proper pre-qualification. At the time of
contract award, it should be ensured that equipment and other resources
required to complete the contract on time would be deployed by the
selected contractor.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
(Loan 2431 -IND)
PART I - PRoJEcr REvIEw FROM BANK'S PERSPECIIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name          Second Swamp Reclamation Project
Loan No.              2431-IND
Loan Amount           US$65 million
RVP Unit              East Asia and Pacific Region
Country              Indonesia
Sector          :    Agriculture
Subsectors            Drainage and Transmigration
2. Background
2.1         Indonesia has considerable regional disparity between land and population.
Out of the total population of 185 million, more than 100 million live on Java with a
density of 775 per kin2, resulting in small agricultural holdings, environmental degradation
and increasing numbers of landless people. In contrast, the outer islands have more land,
less dense population and higher incomes in rural areas.
2.2         Transmigration, one of the largest land resettlement programs in the world,
has been the response to the high population density in Java and Bali and the inequitable
distribution of land and labor in Indonesia. Under the Transmigration Program, about
750,000 families, or over 3.6 million people have been resettled at government expense
between 1903 and 1990 on the less populated outer islands, where they have received a
house in a new village, two to three hectares of land and a subsistence and production
package during the early settlement years. Most applicants for transmigration have been
young and landless agricultural laborers. Over the past fifteen years, the Bank supported
the Transmigration Program through seven loans, totalling US$560 million equivalent.
Five Bank-assisted projects consisted of transmigration schemes in the uplands of Sumatra
and East Kalimantan and two projects supported swamps reclamation in coastal lands of
Sumatra.
2.3         The development and settlement of tidal swamp lands in Indonesia involve
a series of challenges which generally do not occur in other development areas. Typically
swamp developments are remote from existing regional centers; skilled labor and qualified



- 2 -
government staff are scarce; the initial development requires relatively high levels of
investment and effective coordination of many agencies; and agricultural and social
development are complex. Historically, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) adopted a
two-stage approach to tidal-land development. A low-cost, low-technology first stage
installed basic project and social infrastructure and provided for marginal levels of
agricultural production. This was supposed to be followed by second-stage development
to improve basic infrastructure and expand social investments constructed under the first
stage. The project under review aimed to modify this two-stage approach by including
more improved infrastructure so that drainage of tidal swamp areas could be better
managed. The objective was to reduce some of the technical risks in achieving the
agricultural objectives of swamp development.
2.4         The Bank concurred with GOI on its multi-stage development strategy but
considered that the process could be improved and made more cost-effective by improving
site selection, construction standards, agricultural research and development and pest
control. Additionally, reliable drinking-water supply was needed and the environment had
to be protected. The Bank could assist GOI in addressing these issues through a policy
dialogue made possible through involvement in physical developments formulated to
demonstrate innovative procedures, and through institutional assistance to GOI's program.
Bank assistance for swamp reclamation began in 1975 with a review of hydrological and
pedological aspects of developing tidal lands and definition of criteria for the selection of
suitable areas for development. The Bank provided assistance for surveys and studies
(Irrigation VII, Loan 1268-IND), and in 1979 for detailed design and feasibility studies
to develop swamps in South Sumatra and Kalimantan (Irrigation XII, Loan 1645-IND).
2.5         In 1981, the Bank approved the First Swamp Reclamation Project (FSRP)
(loan 1958-IND) which included a small, 9,000 ha reclamation and settlement project (at
Karang Agung I, South Sumatra), studies and institutional support. The project was
designed to demonstrate improved implementation through better supervision, and
improvements in crop production through better water-management. The first settlers of
the FSRP project arrived in 1983/84, after the appraisal for the Second Swamp
Reclamation Project.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1         The major objectives of the Second Swamp Reclamation Project were to
support the Swamp Reclamation and Settlement Program of GOI by reclamation of coastal
swamp at Karang Agung II in South Sumatra and to provide institutional support to the
Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Transmigration (MOT) and Ministry of Agriculture,
to improve the quality and efficiency of the program without increasing its costs.
Reclamation and settlement activities were to comprise a 6-year time slice of an 8-year
program of draining, clearing and developing a gross area of about 30,000 ha and settling
about 11,500 families. Works were to include construction of drainage infrastructure, land
clearing, construction of houses and village facilities and settlement of transmigrants. The
6-year time slice was to cover all main civil works and settlement, about 60 percent of all
tertiaries, about 67 percent of clearing of farm plots, and about 40 percent of paddy field



bunds (see para. 12.1). The remaining works would be completed without Bank
assistance. Institutional support was to include technical assistance in project preparation,
implementation management, investigation into sources of drinking water, planning of
upgrading of older schemes, planning of new development, assistance in O&M, land
preparation, agricultural research, monitoring and evaluation.
3.2         At appraisal, the estimated project cost was US$108.5 million, including
US$42.5 million in foreign exchange to be financed by a Bank loan of US$65.0 million.
GOI was to finance the equivalent of US$43.5 million from its development budget.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1         The objectives of reclamation and resettlement were clearly understood but
the need for correct planning was not always observed. Swamp development by GOI is
normally done slowly in stages and the attempt by the project to hasten development was
only partially successful.   Although some early experience from  FSRP 3/ was
incorporated into the design of this project, the project began before all the lessons from
FRSP had been learned. For example, during the project, farm layouts and land clearing
specifications were revised and excavation techniques improved. The proposals outlined
in the SAR were for each transmigrant to be provided with a cleared houselot of 0.5 ha
and for half of the 1.75 ha farmlot to be cleared. This was changed in 1987 to 0.25 ha
houselot and a cleared first farmlot of 1 ha and an uncleared second farmlot of I ha. The
need for early availability of agricultural support services was not adequately addressed
in the project.
4.2         In general, roles and responsibilities of the agencies were adequately
defined; Directorate of Swamps (DOS) was responsible for drainage infrastructure, MOT
was responsible for land clearing, construction of housing and village facilities and
selection, transporting and equipping of transmigrants; the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD) was responsible for agricultural research and
Directorate-General of Food Crops and Horticulture (DGFCH) for agricultural extension;
the completed project was to be handed over to the provincial authorities. Arrangements
for coordination between agencies did not work well; initially, MOT was responsible for
overall coordination but did not have the information and authority necessary to have
overall control and enforce action. In 1989, overall coordination was transferred to
BAPPEDA (Provincial Development Planning Agency) but the same constraints continued
to some extent.
4.3          The project was innovative for swamp projects in that water was to be
controlled. The project was slightly unusual in that it proposed to provide finance for only
six years for a project that was expected to be completed in eight years. A factor which
contributed to the success of the settlement was that a more-detailed soil survey than was
2/  In procurement, project management and land clearing.



- 4 -
usual was undertaken which ensured farmers were settled only on suitable soils, but the
availability of farm labor was seriously overestimated at appraisal.
5. Project Implementation
5.1          The project was implemented generally in accordance with the proposals
outlined in the SAR (see para. 4.1). The loan became effective in September 1984 and
closed on 31 December 1993. The project (the six-year time-slice) was completed more
than two years later than the appraisal estimate but some of the work which the SAR
included in the last two years of the eight-year time-slice (land clearing and earthworks,
para. 3.1) has been done. About 94 percent (US$60.8 million) of the loan has been
disbursed. The total project cost is about Rp 141,000 million, about 130 percent of the
appraisal estimate, but due to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and the
rupiah, when expressed in dollars is only about US$89.4 million or about 82 percent of
the SAR estimate. The main ICB civil contracts for development of Karang Agung II
were awarded to local contractors at lower prices than estimated in the SAR. There was
a considerable increase in the amount spent on consultancies (see para. 5.3). Many of the
risks foreseen at appraisal materialized since the proposed solutions to the anticipated
problems were not effective: procurement and implementation were slow, agricultural
development was delayed and pests were a problem.
5.2          The project was delayed by uncertainties over pre-qualification of
contractors for the main reclamation works and the awards of contracts. Further delays
were due to the use of unsuitable construction plant on one of the main drainage contracts
and the need to redesign secondary water-control structures (see para. 5.4). The adoption
of long-arm hydraulic excavators and the use of precast ferro-cement secondary structures
overcame the problems but there was then further delay in the award of the contracts for
the secondary structures. To reflect lessons learned in the FSRP, farm layout was changed
(see para. 4.1) at about the same time as the first settlers arrived, and the policy
concerning land clearing was changed so that the houselot and the first farmlot were fully
cleared and destumping was improved.
5.3         By May 1989, only 2,050 families had been settled and agricultural
extension and support services had not started in earnest. The project was reformulated
in 1990 to overcome the implementation problems and the loan agreement was amended
to: increase Bank support for settlement and agricultural components; transfer coordination
responsibility from MOT to BAPPEDA of South Sumatra; and increase the allocation for
consultant services, especially for preparing a proposed Integrated Swamps Development
Project (ISDP) - which was not included in the SAR, and enhancing the construction
supervision and management of settlement components. The settlement target was lowered
to 10,150 families.4/ The loan closing date was, at the same time, extended to 30 June
1992. Progress improved and by December 1992 all project components, except for
construction of secondary canal structures, were fully or substantially completed. The loan
4/  This was later increased to 10,800 families.



closing date was further extended to 31 December, 1993 to enable: (a) completion of the
secondary canal structures, without which the project impact would be reduced
considerably (para. 5.4); (b) consolidation of settlement and agricultural components;
(c) completion of the Environmental Assessment required prior to the appraisal of ISDP;
and (d) review the engineering design for the first year's implementation program of ISDP.
5.4          About 160 timber secondary canal structures were originally included in the
two ICB contracts for the construction of the primary and secondary drains, but were taken
out because of difficulties in obtaining the specified timber material after Government
banned the use and movement of the timber from the production areas. Until then, 34
structures had been built but found to be of poor design and malfunctioning. Subsequent
design revision took a long time to resolve. In April 1990, it was decided to use
prefabricated ferro-cement elements, instead of timber. The finalization of designs and
award of contracts took another 15 months and the construction started in September 1991
under four contracts.  The negotiated contract for prefabrication of structures was
completed in good time but the works on the three LCB erection contracts were slow to
start. They were completed in June 1993.
5.5          Supervision reports were sometimes critical of the quality of construction;
for example substandard houses, clearing and destumping not in accordance with
specification, and unsatisfactory timber water-control structures were reported.  The
unsatisfactory secondary structures were replaced with ferro-cement structures. Some of
the communal water tanks were found to be leaking. Earthworks were not always stable
and reshaping was required in some areas.
6. Project Results
6.1          At Karung Agung II, about 30,000 ha of gross swamp area have been
successfully reclaimed under the project. About 10,800 farm families have been settled,
which is 6 percent less than the appraisal target of 11,500 families due to the soils in some
of the area being considered unsuitable for settlement.  Schools, health centers and
agricultural extension centers have been built and staffed. The arrival of settler families
followed the pattern set out in the SAR, but was delayed by about three years due to a
slow start of reclamation and poor coordination between the agencies involved. Despite
a lack of agricultural support services in the early stages of the project and generally poor
destumping, agricultural development of houselots and, to a large extent, the first farmlots,
is impressive reflecting the enthusiasm and commitment of settlers. However, clearing of
the second farmlots has hardly started and is unlikely to happen in the near future due to
scarcity of labor as well as delay in the issuance of land titles causing uncertainties
amongst the settlers.  Family labor has been estimated 5/ to be only 375 person-
days/year; on-farm labor inputs by transmigrant families in units monitored by consultants
ranged from 130 to 270 days per year per farm compared with an SAR estimate of 500
days/year initially rising to 800 days/year. In general, families are younger and therefore
5/   Monitoring and Evaluation Final Report, November 1992, page 5-2.



- 6 -
smaller than assumed; there has been more non-farm labor in project construction and with
logging companies than was expected. The availability of female labor for work in the
fields was overestimated. Older children are often sent away for schooling due to lack of
secondary schools in the-area.
6.2         There is less rice grown in the wet season than assumed in the SAR because
palawija is also grown; a dry-season palawija crop is also grown, which was not foreseen
in the SAR. Average rice yields on the harvested areas are close to SAR estimnates and
higher than on other swamps projects, reflecting the choice of an area with good soils.
However, pests and diseases are serious problems. Agricultural production is estimated
to have reached about 16,300 tons of paddy, about 8,800 tons of maize and about 500,000
bunches of bananas per year. The production of paddy was about 65 percent of the SAR
estimate for 1992/93, but the production of maize exceeded the appraisal estimates.
6.3         The economic rate of return has been re-estimated to be about 0 percent,
compared with 12.5 percent estimated in the SAR. The reasons for this include: (a) the
area cultivated at full development is estimated to be only about 56 percent of that assumed
in the SAR, due to lack of development of the second farmlot; (b) projected economic
prices for rice and other outputs are lower than estimated in the SAR because of the global
decline in commodity prices; and (c) some early delay in the arrival of the settlers. The
estimated ERRs (SAR and PCR) do not take account of the benefit of reduction of
population pressure in Java and Bali due to the project.
6.4         Upgrading of hydraulic infrastructure in other older swamp developments
in South Sumatra, Riau and South Kalimantan has been completed on 8,000 ha
(160 percent of SAR target) at only about 70 percent of the SAR cost (in US dollar,
including contingencies).
6.5         The study for development of 200,000 ha of swamp in Irian Jaya was
successfully completed but no decision on further investments has been made.
6.6         Following the feasibility study for upgrading and design of 35,000 ha of
swamp in West Kalimantan, Riau and Jambi, 8,000 ha have been upgraded under this
project (see para. 6.4), 6,000 ha using OECF funds and the remainder using GOI funds.
This study concentrated on hydraulic infrastructure. Integrated second-stage development
is now necessary.
6.7         The project included a study of Institutional Proposals for Tidal Land
Reclamation Projects. The proposals resulting from this study were partly implemented
under this project.
6.8         Investigations for drinking-water supplies for swamp development projects
in Karang Agung II and Saleh in South Sumatra and for sites in South and West
Kalimantan, resulted in seven deep wells being constructed by GOI in Barambai (South
Kalimantan) complete with transmission lines to village centers and two good wells at
Saleh which have not yet been equipped with pumps (possibly this will be done with ADB



assistance). At Karang Agung II and West Kalimantan, no satisfactory groundwater
supplies have been located (see para. 7.1).
6.9         Identification and preparation studies for the proposed ISDP were completed
as were a baseline survey for monitoring and evaluation and an environment management
study.
6.10        A good agricultural research facility, which was established under the
project in Karang Agung I, made valuable recommendations concerning farming systems,
soil and water management for different tidal conditions and crop varieties for use in tidal
swamp areas but the extension of this to farmers was less than satisfactory.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1          Settlers are staying and appear to be committed to investing in their land and
it is likely that agricultural production will gradually increase. Adequate medical services
and junior schools have been established but the supply of drinking-water could present
some problems in the dry season. Hydrogeological investigations indicated that potable
groundwater is not available. The project provided each settler family with eight steel
drums for storing drinking- water collected from roofs (which were not provided with
gutters) but these drums corrode after a few years and are not being replaced. Communal
tanks collecting rainwater in village centers provide limited supplies for use during dry
weather which will be augmented in some villages by treated surface-water supplies.
These small schemes, the construction of which has been financed by OECF, each involve
a ground level storage pond from which water is pumped to a settling tank and a filter
before being pumped into a distribution pipeline. The means of financing the operation,
including fuel, chemicals and trained operators, have not yet been established.
7.2          Future crop yields will depend on the degree of water management and on
the use of agricultural inputs after project completion when subsidized inputs will no
longer be available. Positive factors, which will influence future yields, include: the soils
are good; pest attack should decline as the extent of cleared fields is gradually improved;
more labor will be deployed on cultivation rather than for land-shaping; opportunities for
off-farm labor are likely to reduce as project construction is completed; extension staff will
become more familiar with swamp cultivation and farmers will learn good
water-management. Negative factors include the lack of input supplies and marketing
facilities; the distance and cost of transport to and from Palembang and the absence of
credit and banking facilities. Private agencies may provide some credit and traders are
already advancing money to millers. To obtain formal credit, farmers require collateral
for which land title is needed. Land mapping is planned but it will take some years before
mapping and certification are complete.
7.3         During project negotiations, GOI agreed to allocate appropriate funds to
properly operate and maintain the completed project drainage works. Previously, little
attention was paid to maintaining the vast drainage network in the country (which is also
used for navigation) except for emergency works.   Although some noticeable



improvements have taken place since 1987 and budgetary allocations have been introduced,
(from the national budget in areas supported by the ISSP program 6/ at reasonably
sufficient levels and from the provincial budget at marginal levels for other areas), the
country-wide situation in respect of the O&M of drainage infrastructure remains relatively
neglected in comparison with the O&M of irrigation systems. This should be monitored
and attended to under the proposed ISDP and within the framework agreed for the ISSP
program and GOI's policy objectives enunciated in 1987. For Karang Agung II, the O&M
budget has been enhanced considerably (to about Rp 35,000/ha/year on an assumed gross
area of 30,000 ha) with the support of ISSP. Some canals have been re-excavated under
this project (Loan 2431 -IND). The support under the ISSP program will phase out by
June 1995 but GOI have agreed to continue this level of funding thereafter. There has also
been improvement in the organization, procedures, manuals and staff training related to
these O&M works in South Sumatra, but there is little evidence of resident trained staff
on site. The PCR mission was told that six overseers (jurus) had already been trained out
of a total requirement of six inspectors (pengamat) and 30 overseers. It is urgently
necessary to recruit these staff from the transmigrant community and train them in the
O&M of the works. The O&M of the main and secondary drains and structures should
now become the responsibility of the Provincial Water Resources Service (PWRS). The
first 5,000 ha are due to be transferred from the project unit for O&M of swamps (P2JP)
to PWRS in 1993/94 but there does not seem to be provision for handing over or
otherwise providing to PWRS adequate offices and equipment to enable them to meet their
responsibilities. The equipment that is handed over is often old, broken or infected with
viruses.
7.4         While the quite complex water management options, which are needed to
make best use of the land, minimize siltation in the drains and prevent salt-water intrusion,
have been identified and are well described in consultants reports and the O&M manual,
to date little practical application of this knowledge has been made. This is largely due
to there being no secondary structures operating yet7/ in settled areas and lack of
training of farmers and gate operators.
7.5         The mission estimates that rice yields may exceed 2.5 ton per ha at full
development, but this would depend on input use.
7.6         The monitoring systems established by consultants are unlikely to be
successfully sustained. Seven monitoring units established in Karang Agung I and II are
no longer in use and most of the equipment provided has disappeared or does not work.
Adequate budgets have not been made available. Data-processing equipment handed over
to the DOS project unit in Palembang by the consultants has not been passed on to
DGFCH and MOT as envisaged. Some computer hard-disks have been removed or
damnaged and the data bases and software are infected by viruses.
6/  Irrigation Subsector Projects (Loans 2880 and 3392-IND).
7/  Structures were completed in June 1993.



9
8. Bank Performance
8.1         Other than overestimnating the availability of farm labor and underestimating
the effects of the foreseen risks, the Bank performance was generally satisfactory.
Although the project began before all lessons from the first Swamp Project could be
learned, some lessons were applied either during project preparation or during
implementation (e.g. the need for good soil survey, farm layout). Nevertheless, some of
the identified risks still caused problems. There was considerable delay due to pre-
qualification of tenderers and contract awards, when the Bank's performance was below
the normal standard. The Bank changed the criteria for pre-qualification and then accepted
criteria which the Bank considered inadequate, describing the scoring system as poor,
ambiguous, ineffective and a disincentive for foreign contractors to bid; as a result of these
criteria, four of the largest contractors in Southeast Asia were not pre-qualified for
financial reasons. A lesson from this is that detailed guidelines for pre-qualification of
tenderers are needed.
8.2         Some 15 missions visited the project during implementation and produced
nine full supervision reports. There was good continuity of staff but only one mission
included an environmental specialist.  The Bank was flexible in its approach to
reformulating the project and trice extended the loan closing date to allow construction
works to be completed and for preparation of ISDP. A special account was set up in 1988
and the loan funds originally allocated for paddy bunds were reallocated to be used as a
land development fund in an attempt to accelerate land clearing of second plots, but this
has so far had little effect.
8.3         The poor re-estimated ERR is due, in part, to reasons that were either
foreseen but not given sufficient weight such as slow implementation and delayed
agricultural development, or not foreseen (the substantial reduction in the economic price
of rice).
8.4         The Bank understated the environmental impact of the Karang Agung II
development in the SAR. Despite the substantial change from swamp forest, which was
a natural habitat for many species of flora and fauna (not mentioned in the SAR), to
cultivable agricultural land capable of sustaining 10,800 or more families, the SAR stated
that the environmental impact would be minor. Although an assurance was obtained that
GOI would monitor physical changes (soil and water quality were monitored), no provision
was made for any mitigating measures that might be found necessary.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1         The Borrower successfully implemented the project but with some delay due
to indecision and lack of coordination between agencies. Procurement of civil works was
a major cause of delay (see 8.1). The annual budget process did not allow work to be
planned and implemented with certainty and budget allocations were often randomly
reduced.



- 10 -
9.2          The Borrower did not benefit as much from institutional strengthening as
hoped, due in part to consultants substituting for GOI staff rather than training them.
There was a lack of willingness of GOI staff to live and work in the remote project area.
Staff were reported to show little interest in the impact of development. Monitoring and
evaluation were entrusted to consultants and have now almost ceased after completion of
the consultants' input.
9.3          Initially, progress reports and some audit reports were late in being
submitted to the Bank; the Borrower's processing of disbursement applications has been
slow.
10. Project Relationships
10.1         The relationships between the Bank and the Government agencies involved
were generally good, although it was difficult to obtain agreement on the award of the
main ICB contracts. Coordination between and within ministries was often ineffective and
inefficient. In particular, in the early stages of the project, settlement and agricultural
activities were slow and lagged civil works. Each organization followed its own program
as if each activity was self- contained. Overall coordination was initially entrusted to
MOT, which appeared not even to be able to coordinate effectively its own activities and
did not have the authority and information to enforce action or administer overall control.
In 1989, overall coordination was transferred to BAPPEDA which also lacks authority
over the implementing agencies.
11. Consulting Services
11.1         Consultants played an important role in project implementation, particularly
in the supervision of construction of civil works and land clearing, in agricultural research
and in the monitoring and evaluation of the project. Consultants were also used for the
investigation for drinking-water, the studies carried out under the project and for the
preparation of ISDP. Over US$18 million (or about 28 percent of the loan) was spent on
consultants. In general, the consultants performed satisfactorily. Although consultants
were used for construction supervision, Bank missions sometimes reported poor quality
work (see para. 5.5). The consultants were not given executive authority and were often
working in difficult circumstances.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1         The SAR was thorough and provided a useful framework for implementation
of the project but it was somewhat repetitive on some aspects and unclear on others. The
PCR mission would have found it easier to analyze costs if the upgrading works outside
Karang Agung had been given a separate category in the loan. The division of work



- 11 -
between the six-year time slice which the project included and the eight-year program was
not clearly explained.8/
12.2         There is doubt concerning the costs provided by GOI for engineering and
administration, which are low compared to appraisal estimates. Monitoring reports
provided valuable indications of agricultural development in Karang Agung II.
8/   For example, SAR (par 3.02) said that the project included 67 percent of clearing of farmplots
(i.e., 67 percent of 20,125 ha = 13,404 ha) but only 7,560 ha were included in cost tables
(page 57).



- 12 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW PROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Comments on Part I
1. Background
1.1         In 1984, Indonesia achieved self sufficiency in rice production by cultivating
4,8 millions ha of rice fields. To sustain rice self-sufficiency, the existing irrigation
systems should be maintained properly to keep the productivity as planned while the
construction of new irrigation systems should be continued. The increasing population,
with an average growth rate of 2,1 percent/year, demands more food. If in 1990 total rice
demand was about 46 million tons, in 1993 it was about 49 million tons and in 1998 it will
increase to about 54 million tons.
1.2         Continued land conversion of irrigated rice fields for other purposes reduces
the existing irrigated area. In Java, 30,000 ha rice field are converted every year. A
balanced production area will be built, but in Java the existing potential area is becoming
more and more limited.
1.3         Tidal swamp irrigation development is one of the alternatives for the
extension of irrigation and, based on past experience, swamps have the potential to become
productive agricultural land. Indonesia has 35 million ha of inland and coastal swamps of
which one million ha are located in Sumatra, one million ha in Kalimantan and four
million ha in Irian Jaya. South Sumatra has 324,170 ha potential tidal swamp area of
which only 140,878 ha are cultivated.
1.4         The purpose of tidal swamp irrigation development is to: (a) increase food
production; (b) improve employment opportunity; (c) spread more equally regional
development; and (d) settle transmigrants from Java and Bali. The approach to develop
tidal swamps is based on stages of agricultural development. When agriculture has
reached a certain level, new investments and measures to upgrade the reclamation project
to the next stage are required. The swamp development constraints are not always
foreseen; therefore it may be required to intervene in the development process during a
certain stage to overcome the unexpected problem and to prevent adverse effects. Some
constraints of swamp development are: (a) soils mostly consist of swamp clay and peat and
soil fertility is medium; (b) the land is low and flat and needs drainage and flood
protection; (c) the areas are isolated with transportation only possible during high tide;
(d) drinking water (mainly rain) is usually not enough during the dry season; (e) salinity
intrusion affects the rice yields; and (f diseases and pests.
1.5         The Government of Indonesia has spent a lot of funds to transmigrate poor
people from Java, Bali, Lombok, etc. to the outer islands, particularly Sumatra and
Kalimantan. The total number of transmigrants is about 3.6 million. However, many
people (no certain figure) from the outer islands come to Java island spontaneously on their



- 13 -
own cost, not as farmers but as civil servants, workers, business people, etc. As a result
the population density in Java is not becoming lower but higher instead and was in 1991,
about 800 person/km2 and in 1993, about 900 person/km2.
1.6         Settlement of transmigrants from Java and Bali in Rawa Agung II was a step
in the right direction because they are experienced farmers and used to hard work.
However, facing the swamp condition they need time to adapt to the swamp irrigation
system and its settlement.
2. Implementation
2.1         The implementation of physical works for primary, secondary and collector
drains, flood protection dikes, jetties, bridges, (34) secondary timber water control
structures, tertiary and hamlet structures were completed in June 1991. Because of failure,
the design of secondary water control structures was changed from timber to ferrocement
with a total of 167 structures completed by mid 1993 (SAR = 163 structures). The failure
of secondary timber water control structures is due to: (a) under and side seepage, piping
and erosion problems at the upstream and the downstream of the structures; (b)Sumatra
ulin timber could not be used because the length and the total amount of timber were not
sufficient. Therefore ulin timber had to be supplied from Kalimantan; however the price
was higher and it was forbidden to take ulin timber from Kalimantan; (c) contractor could
not provide timber in a timely manner; (d) difficulties to transport material, floods and bad
weather; and (e) the working method of the contractor was not clear.
2.2         The failure of secondary timber water control structures, which had to be
replaced, caused a loss (in number) of about 20 percent, and resulted in a completion delay
of about two years.
3. Results
3.1         Tidal swamp irrigation development for agriculture in Indonesia is relatively
new and its performance in terms of agriculture and water management is lower than
traditional irrigation. Transmigrant farmers have no experience in tidal swamp irrigation,
soil treatment, salinity intrusion, etc.  The change in physical and socio-economic
conditions can not be predicted quantitatively and sometimes development may not be
achieved at all. In Rawa Agung II, 30.000 ha has been reclaimed successfully. A total
of 15,346 ha has been cleared and 13,780 ha is being cultivated by 10,800 families. Most
farmers are not optimally cultivating their land due to shortage of labor, capital, farm
inputs and pest problems. Some areas can be planted with two rice crops a year, some
areas with only once rice crop a year and some areas are unsuitable for rice. Farmers
income in Karang Agung II is about $255, 1/ they are considered poor people as they fall
below the poverty line (World Bank Standard of US$1/day). However, compared with the
1/  Revised to about US$400 per year (Part III, Section 6 C).



- 14 -
income at their place of origin, as farm worker, they now have a higher income, and they
just start living better than before.
3.2         The rice productivity of Rawa Agung II can be as high as 4 ton/ha, as
demonstrated in demplots with normal input and good land preparation.
4. Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
4.1         Compared with surface irrigation systems, with construction costs at about
$4,000/ha, the construction of tidal swamp irrigation is only $1,250/ha. It is however
believed that the O&M of tidal irrigation systems is more expensive due to sedimentation
both from the embankment erosion and from the river. The sedimentation rate of primary
canals is assumed at 0,5 m3/m/year. The O&M of primary and secondary canals is the
responsibility of the PWRS, however the budget is limited. The O&M of tertiary canals,
in principle, is farmers responsibility.
EOM cost of Karang Agung II
Cost Rp.1,000
Total
Year                Foreign                Local              Rp. 1,000
1989/1990             111,120                146,320              257,440
1990/1991             121,410                227,271              348,681
1991/1992             140,152                164,555              304,707
1992/1993             288,750                312,520              601,270
1993/1994              60,375                97,773               558,148
Total               721,807              1,348,439            2,070,2246
B. Comments on Part III
5.          The adequacy and accuracy of the factual information contained in part III
is acceptable.
C. Bank Performance
6.          Bank performance was satisfactory. The flexibility of Bank supervision
during the project implementation in its approach to reformulate the loan and to twice
extend the closing date to allow construction work to be completed was appreciated. The
decision to change the design of houselot and a first cleared farmlot and second uncleared
farmilot was right as it related to lack of family labor. Karang Agung II has its own
lessons learned due to difference in size, salinity and marketing of agriculture produce.



- 15 -
However, the implementation of works would not have been delayed if lessons learned at
the completion of First Swamp Reclamation Project had been applied in Karang Agung II.
D. Borrower Performance
7.          The Borrower's performance can be considered positive and negative. The
Borrower has been successful to transmigrate 10,800 families to the isolated Karang Agung
II area. The strategy of more equal regional development has been achieved and the
opening up of the isolated area will support economic growth. It is hoped that the
transmigrant farmers will be able to overcome all challenges of tidal swamp irrigation.
The valuable lesson learned was the change of secondary water control structure design
from timber to ferrocement. But from the delays in implementation, lack of coordination
among agencies and the low project benefits, the Borrower should learn a lot.
E. Bank and Borrower Relationship
8.          Generally the relationship between Bank and GOI was good. Difference of
opinion and even conflict is a part of the work. Difference of opinion will actually serve
as a unifying force to arrive at consensus, which is in the interest of all.



- 16 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan Title                        Purpose              Year of      Status          Commesta
Approval
Loan 1268-IND, Irrigation VU          Study and survey of swamps      1976     Completed    PPAR, October 1983
in South Sumatra and Janibi.
Loan 1645-IND, Irrigation Xll         Detailed design of Karang       1981     Completed    PPAR, June 1987
Agung and feasibility study
for 350,000 ha in South
Sumatra and Kalimantan.
Loan 1958-lND, Swamp Reclamation I    Reclamation; settlement of      1981     Completed    PCR, lune 1989
3,200 families in Karang
Agung 1.
Loan 2880-lND, lrrigation Sub-sector  Special maintenance and         1987     Completed    PCR, 1992
effective operation and
maintenance of swamps.
Loan 3392-IND, Irrigation Subsector 11    Special maintenance and     1991     On-going     Financing O&M of
(O&M)                                 effective operation and                               Karang Agung II
maintenance of swamps.
Integrated Swamp Development Project  Second stage swamp                       Proposed     Preparation under
development.                                         Lon 2431-ND
2. Project Timetable
Item                  Date Planned         Date Revised          Date Actual
Identification (Project Brief)                                          15 November 1982
Appraisal Mission              Late 1981                 July 1982      April 1983
Loan Negotiations              October 1983                             19 to 23 March 1984
Board Approval                 December 1983                            31 May 1984
Loan Signature                                                          20 June 1984
Loan Effectiveness             20 September 1984                        5 September 1984
Project Completion             31 December 1990                         31 March 1993
Loan Closing                   30 June 1991            30 June 1992    31 December 1993
Loan Completion la             30 September 1991                        30 April 1994
/a Four months after loan closing.
Comments: Processing delayed to evaluate low-cost land clearing under First Swamp Reclamation Project. Board
presentation delayed until ICB bids for main drainage works submitted. Loan closing postponed to permit
completion of construction and preparation for proposed ISDP.



- 17 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
in US$ million
Fiscal Year       1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Appraisal estimate     2.0    8.0   23.0   38.0   50.0   57.0   65.0  65.0   65.0   65.0
Revised estimate        -       -       -      -      -       -      -    64.0   64.0   64.0
Actual disbursement    0.2    3.2    9.2   22.3   30.0   36.9   39.0  56.8   61.0   60.8
Actual as % of revised  8      40      40     59      60     65      60    89       95     95
estimate
Date of final            March 10, 1994
disbursement
4. Project Implementation
Indicators                     Appraisal Estimate        ActuaI/PCR
Estimate
Area reclaimed (ha)                                                  30,000             30,000/a
Families settled (no.)                                                11,500             10,800
Primary drains (km)                                                     120                 121
Secondary and collector drains (km)                                     150                 171
Flood dike (kIm)                                                          /d                72
Tertiary drains (km)                                                    800               1,289
Hamlet drains (km)                                                     1,600              1,725
Secondary structures (no.)                                              170                 167
Hamlet outlet structures (no.)                                          340                 323
Tertiary structures (no.)                                                 0               1,570
Pedestrian bridges (no.)                                                510                 218
Jetties (no.)                                                           470                 199
Paddy field bunds (in)                                              580,000                  /b
Land clearing (ha)                                                    15,100             15,346
Housing (no.)                                                         11,500             10,800
Village facilities (no.)                                                 30                  25
Mobilization and transport (no. of families)                          11,500             10,800
Supplies and support (no. of families)                                 6,000             10,800
Upgrading older schemes (ha)                                           5,000            8,000 c
/a Approximate gross area; occupied area is 23,345 ha.
/b Substituted by land development activities.
&  Includes approximately 3,000 ha of additional scattered works done in other schemes.
Ld Length not given in SAR. 332,500 ml of earthworks in Annex 1, Table 5.



- 18 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (US$ million)
Item                                  Appraisal                    Actual
Estimate /b
Civil works                                                      33.1                        27.3
Settlement                                                        46.8                       33.4
Equipment and materials                                           5.6                         3.1
Consultant services                                               12.6                       17.3
Support works                                                      1.2                        5.6
Training                                                          0.3                        0.6
Engineering and administration                                    8.6                         1.9 /a
Fee                                                               0.2                         0.2
Total                                                           108.5                        89.4
/a Based on figures provided by GOI. Possibly underestimated.
/b Including physical and price contingencies taken from page 52 of SAR, but with total from page 25. Errors
due to rounding.
B. Project Financing (US$'000)
Source                    Planned (Loan        Revised       Final          Coameast
Agreement)
IBRD                                                May      April
1989     1990
Civil Works:
(a) Primary and scondary                  15,400   7,400   11,400   11,556
(b) Other                                 14,800  15,200   14,200   14,242
Subtotal                                  30,200  22,600   25,600   25,798
Settlement                                13,000  11,200   10,050    8,049
Mobilization packages                          0   4,000    4,000    2,523
Equipment nd materials                     5,340   4,200    3,252    3,073
Consultants' services                     11,850  16,700   17,550   18,442
Well drilling and testing                    190    700       200       82
Training                                     230    500       550      547
Support activities:
- Test farm                                    0   1,800    1,800    1,347
- Rural extension                              0    300    1,000       555
- BAPPEDA                                      0    300       300      181
Fee                                          162    162       162      162
Unallocated                                4,028   2,538      536
Cancelled                                                            4,245
Total IBRD                                65,000  65,000   65,000   60,755
DOMESTIC                                  43,500  28,560   27,250   28,645
Total                                    108,S00  93,560   92,250   89,400
Comment: US$1 million was cancelled from  the loan in June 1992, at GOI's request, and
US$3,244,896.94 on March 10, 1994.



- 19 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators       Appraisal Estimate   Estimated      Estimated at
at Full     at Closing Date  Full Development
Development
Number of families settled        11,500        10,800             10,800
Incremental production: La
- Paddy (tons/year)               58,000        16,300             27,000
- Palawija (tons/year)            4,850          8,800             14,600
- Coconuts (no./year)          4,675,000             0          3,567,000
- Coconut oil (tons/year)           700              0             534 Lb
- Banana (bunches/year)        1,320,000       504,000          1,296,000
,L SAR production taken from para. 5.08, which does not quite agree with Annex 2, Table 4.
L Based on same conversion as used in SAR.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal   PCR Estimate
Estimate       at Full
Development
Economic Rate of Return                             12.5%          0%
Underlying Assumptions:
- Economic investment cost (US$ million)           51/87 La       53.2 Lb
- Paddy yield at full development (tons/ha/year)     2.5           2.5
- Projected paddy price in 1995 (US$/ton)         267/454 La       256 /b
- Area cultivated (ha)                             25,875         13,500
- Economic cost of labor (Rp/day)                1,200/2,100 La    1,750 Lb
La In 1983 prices/1992 prices.
/b In 1992 prices.
Comment: ERRs do not take account of the benefit of reduction of population pressure in
Java and Bali.



- 20 -
C. Finandal Impact
Appraisal Estimate La     PCR Estimate lk
Family Income: 1990/91                   $543/year               $400/year
Full development           $1,575/year
La In end-1983 $, corresponding figures in 1992 $ would be about $923 and $2,677
respectively.
L In 1992 $. Income from cropping only.



- 21 -
D. Studies
Name of Study         Purpose a Deflned at Appraisal      Sttus                    Impact of Shwdy
Master Plan Studies      Prepare development plans for      Completed   Plasn for three siter totalling about 100,000 ha
200,000 ha in Irian Jaya.                       prepared but no construction yet.
Feasibility and Design of   To determine needs for upgrading  Completed   - Feasibility study and deoign of 35,000 ha of
Older Schemes            GOI swamp developmnent in South                   West Kalimantan, Risu and Jambi.
Sumatra and West Kalimantan.                    - Consrction:
5,000 ha - Loan 2431-IND
6,000 ha - OECF
remindor - GOI
- Feasibility study concentrated on hydraulic
infrastrcture.
Monitoring and           Monitor agricultural development and   Completed   - Comprehensive repora prepred.
Evaluation Studies (DOS,  physical and chemical changes in               - Staff trained in M&E techniques, but since
MOT, DGFCA)             three projects.                                    truansfrred. Equipment provided but now not
functional.
- Study extended to prepare for PCR.
Drinking Water           Search for potable groundwater in  Completed   - Seven weUs drilled: groundwater upply
Investigations          four project; evaluation of surface                found in South KalimAntan; two good wells in
water treatment and storage; make                 Salehi (South Sumatra), but not yet equipped.
recommendations.                                - No groundwater in KA 11; tawater
collection; and rface water treatment with
OECF funding.
Agricultural Resrch      Assist AARD in swamp-otientated    Completed   - Research facility established in KA I.
and Development          research and development, farming               - Ueful rsearch carried out in KA I and H
systems pest control, rice breeding,              and elsewhere.
soil and plant nutrition.                       - Proposed to continue under ISDP.
Final Iand Prepartion   Establish better methods for settlers            lb
through Commnunity      to clear land.
Action
ISDP - Identification /a    Selection of areas for feasibility study   Completed   Used for prepartion of ISDP.
upgrading.
Pre-feasibility study for 140,000 ha.
ISDP - Baseline la      Baseline study in selected areas of  Completed   Used for preparation of ISDP.
Iambi and West Kalimantan
(90,000 ha).
ISDP - Preparation /a   Baeline survey in Riau. Prepartion   Completed   Used for appraisal of ISDP.
of feasibility study.
ISDP - Environment /a    Improve existing environmental     Completed   Used for appraisal of ISDP.
impact assesment. Make proposals
for Iambi, Riau, West Kalimnaan.
ISDP - Design Ic         Design review for firt year's      Completed   To be used for implementation of ISDP
implementation program.
Management Study /a     lb                                  Completed   Propoals to be considered for ISDP. Some
implemented under SSDP.
/a Not included at appraisal.
/b Data not available



- 22 -
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant                       Subject                 Deadline for Compliance               Status
Loan Agreement
Section 3.01        Carry out project with due diligence and                        Generally complied. Agricultural
efficiency and with appropriate practices.                      management practices initially
Provide funds promptly.                                         ineffective. Local funds delayed early
in project.
Section 3.02        Employ consultants.                                             Complied.
Section 3.03 (a)   Insure imported goods.                                           Generally complied.
(b)     Goods and services exclusively for the
project.
Section 3.04 (a), (b)  Furnish information reports and maintain                     Consultants provided regular progress
records.                                                        reports for many components but
overall coordinated report was
lacking.
Section 3.04 (d)    Prepare and furnish completion report.  Within six months of    Not yet due.
completion.
Section 3.05       Acquire land.                                                    Complied.
Section 3.06        DGFCA to extend its crop intensification                        Not complied.
programme.
Section 3.07        Establish depots with agricultural inputs.    31 December 1986  Complied but late.
Section 3.08       MOT to have full time resident Project   1 July 1985             Complied but Project Manager lacked
Manager                                                         staff and authority to function as
proposed in SAR.
Section 3.09 (a)    Coordination by MOT.                                            Loan agreement changed to make
BAPPEDA responsible because of
lack of coordination by MOT.
Section 3.09 (b)    Bench-mark monitoring report.           31 December 1986        Partly complied. Late.
Annual evaluations.                      1 May 1988 et seq.     Partly compiled.
Provide feedback for planning and future                        M&E by consultants only but little
M&E.                                                            involvemcnt of GOI staff.
Section 3.10       Agricultural research programme to                               Complied.
continue.
Section 4.02 (a), (b)  Maintain records and separate accounts.                      Complied.
(c), (d)  Furnish Audit reports within 10 months.    31 January each year.    Complied but sometimes late.
Section 4.03 (a)    Cause infrastructure and public facilities to                   O&M unit for DOS started in 1988,
be operated and maintained.                                     supported under ISSP. O&M of
some village facilities yet to be
resolved.
Section 4.03 (b)   Make funds available for infrastructure  15 August 1987 and      From ISSP for drainage but inade-
maintenance.                            annually thereafter.    quate for some social facilities.
Schedule 2
2 (b)               Provide right to use to each family of their                    Not complied.
houselots and farm plots within one year of
their arrival and land ownership within five
years.
(c)               Provide health services.                                         Complied eventually.
(d)               Provide education services.                                      Complied eventually.
(e)               Provide agricultural services.                                   Serious lack of compliance
particularly in early stages.
(f)               Establish three rural extension centres                          Two only but late.
3                  Establish a plant protection brigade in South                    Complied.
Sumatra and in South Kalimantan.
Schedule 4         Procurement in accordance with Bank                              Partly complied.
guidelines.



- 23 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project              Planned /a         Revised /a           Fnal             Comments
Through appraisa                                                                113.7
Appraisa througb Board approval                                                  12.7
Board approval through effectiveness                                             /a
Supervision                                                                      90.9
PCR                                         10                 10
Total
/a Inforrnation not available.
B. IMissions
Month/  No. of Days Specializatio                Performance Rating Status /b
Stage of Project Cycle   Year   Persons  in         n
Fied Represented Available   Project  Comphance Developne OveraD
La       Funds   Manageme    with         at Impact
nt     Covenanb
Through appraisal      9,10/82     3      27      I,E,A
4/83       3      24     I,E,A
Appraisl through        3/84       -      18        L
Board approval
Board approval
through effectiveness
Familiarization        11/84       1      4         1
Supervision            10/85       2       1        1           1         2                       2         2
3/86      3       3         I
11/86      1      2         1
5/87       1      2         1
10/87      2      3        I,A          1         3                       3         3
9/88      2       4         1          1          3                       3         3
5/89       1      3         1          2          3                       3         3
10/89      3      2        1,A
It2/90     3     16 /c    1,E,A         2          2           2          2         2
5/90       1      5        A
9/90      4             I,A,P,N        1          2           2           2         2
3/91      3               1,P,A        1          3           2           3         3
10, 11/91    2               I,P         1          2           2           2         2
7192      3                I,R         I          1           2           1         2
8/92      2       5        A
Completion             12/92       2      9        1,E
/a I   Irrigation and Drainage Engineer; E - Economist; A - Agriculturalist; L   Loan Officer;
P = Procurement Specialist; N = Environmentalist. R = Resettlement.
/b I = No significant problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
/ Includes other projects.



- 24 -                            ANNEX 1
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. INTRODUCTION
1.         The mission re-estimated the economic rate of return (ERR) to the reclamation
and resettlement at Karang Agung II along the same lines as in the SAR but using available
data on actual costs and updated assumptions and estimates of future benefits.
2.         The analysis was carried out in constant 1992/93 Rupiah, with historic costs
adjusted to 1992/93 values using IMF price deflators. Exchange rates and price deflators were
adjusted to the GOI financial year (Table 1).
B. PROJECT COSTS
3.         Project costs in economic terms (Table 2) were derived from the financial
expenditure by excluding costs not related to the Karang Agung II project, subsistence
payments (which would be required by settlers wherever they lived) and the costs of basic
infrastructure (schools, clinics and other community development which government would
have had to provide in any case). Taxes and subsidies have also been removed. Conversion
factors provided by the World Bank office in Jakarta were used to convert financial prices
(Table 3).
4.         The economic costs include the cost of O&M which has been based on actual
allocations under ISSP from 1988/89 to 1992/93 and on Rp 1,064 million/year thereafter
converted by SCF.
C. PRoJEcT BENEFITS
Settlement and Land Clearing
5.         Settlement. The arrival of settler families followed the pattern set out in the
SAR, but was delayed for about 3 years (Table 4 and Figure 1).
6.         Land Clearing. The area settled is divided into three parts, with each family
receiving a houselot (0.25 ha), first farnilot (1 ha) and second farmlot (1 ha). The area cleared
under the project followed the pattern set out in the SAR, except that it started slowly and built
up to about 80 percent of the original target (Table 4 and Figure 2). Lack of labor constrains
cultivation of the first farmlot. Clearance of the second farmlot has hardly taken place and it
is unlikely that significant areas will be cleared in the near future unless further assistance is
made available. For the purposes of analysis, it is assumed that all the first farmlot is
cultivated but none of the second farmlot.



- 25 -                           ANNEX 1
Farm Development
7.         Area Cultivated. Data on the areas planted from 1991 onwards are shown in
Table 5 which indicates that a family takes about four years to develop and cultivate 1.25 ha
of land. This is more or less in line with the SAR estimate.
8.         Cropping Pattern. There is less rice grown in the wet season than assumed in
the SAR because some palawija is grown; dry season palawija is also grown which was not
expected at appraisal. However, it appears from Table 5 that the long-term trend will be
towards wet-season rice cultivation and dry-season palawija crops. For the purposes of
analysis, a cropping pattern of rice, palawija (represented by maize) and a home garden
represented by bananas and coconuts was assumed. In practice, home gardens include a wide
range of crops including rice, bananas, coconuts and maize. The projected future cropping
mix is based on experience to date, with rice accounting for 85 percent and 15 percent of the
cultivated area in the wet and dry seasons respectively.
9.         Family Labor. The amount of available family labor was overestimated at the
time of appraisal; in general, families are younger and therefore smaller than originally
assumed; there are more opportunities for non-farm labor in project construction and with
logging companies than were expected. Further, within each family the availability of female
labor for work in the fields was overestimated and older children are often sent away for
schooling since there is a lack of secondary schools in the area.
10.        Yields. The SAR estimated rice yields to rise to 2.2 tons per ha at completion
and to 2.6 tons at full development. Farmers were assumed to initially cultivate local varieties
and switch to HYVs during the first few years of the project. However, HYVs have been used
from the beginning. Yields measured by the DGFCH (Table 6) are as predicted in the SAR,
but yearly variations have been considerable due to pest and insect attack (Table 7). An
average yield of 2.5 tons per ha has been assumed in the analysis.
11.        There are a number of factors which will determine future yields. Positive
factors include: the soils are good; pest attacks should decline as the extent of cleared fields
is gradually increased and labor is deployed on cultivation rather than for land shaping;
opportunities for off-farm labor are reduced as project construction is completed; extension
staff become familiar with swamp cultivation and farmers learn good water-management.
Negative factors include the lack of inputs and marketing facilities; the distance and cost of
transport to Palembang and the absence of credit and banking facilities.
12.        Crop Budgets for rice (Table 8) and maize (Table 9) were prepared using data
from studies on KA I, meetings with farmers and from discussions held with field and research
staff in KA II. These show relatively low returns to family labor.
13.        Farm Income due to crops has been estimated to be about US$400 per year.
This is not directly comparable with SAR estimates in that it does not include non-crop
income. However, the mission observed that in areas settled some years ago, there were signs
of positive farm incomes; settlers had added to and improved their houses as well as
developing their home gardens. Many settlers use their disposable income to visit their home
district after harvest.



- 26 -                            ANNEX 1
14.        Farm Inputs and Outputs. On the basis of the above assumptions, profiles of
crops (Table 10) and inputs (Table 11) were calculated for a typical farm. The main difference
between these and the SAR estimates is that the SAR was based on cultivation of 2.25 ha at
full development; the mission assumes that there is insufficient labor to cultivate more that
1.25 ha.
Project Benefits
15.        Project Outputs. Total project agricultural production and inputs are shown in
Table 12 based on the farm development model described above, and applying the model to
each settler family in the year of their arrival.
16.        Economic Price Projections. Farm-gate parity prices were re-estimated for
major crops and inputs, using 1992 World Bank commodity price projections. The projected
economic price for rice, the major project output, has fallen over 40 percent in real terms since
the SAR in 1984. Given Indonesia's position as a marginal importer/exporter of rice, the
parity price used was the average of the import and export parity prices (Table 13). The
economic price of maize has been extrapolated from that of rice since quoted world market
prices refer to maize for animal rather than human consumption (Table 14). Parity prices for
fresh bananas and for coconuts were not calculated but an index of world market price trends
was derived and applied to market prices (Table 15). The export parity price for coconut oil
was estimated and the SAR assumption of 50 percent nuts for fresh consumption and
50 percent for oil extraction was maintained.
17.        Although projected world market fertilizer prices (Table 16) are also expected to
fall, the overall effect of falling product prices will be to reduce economic benefits due to crop
production.
18.        The benefit streams are shown in Table 17. Although there were few data
available to validate the SAR assumptions about income from livestock, the mission observed
that many households maintained some livestock, especially poultry. A rough estimate of
annual income from livestock holding has been included (Rp 50,000/household/year).
19.        Off-farm Labor. Labor is a major constraint to further land development and
intensification of cultivation.  Although the employment opportunities from the project
construction will cease at completion, there are many opportunities for work with logging
companies nearby. However, there is little information available about the amount of off-farm
work actually being carried out. For the purposes of calculation, it is assumed that on average
each family works off-farm for 100 days per year.
20.        Wage Rates. Wage rates paid by contractors in the Karang Agung II area ranged
from Rp 1,800 to Rp 3,000 per day, excluding meals (valued at about Rp 1,200 per day)
which were provided by the contractor, suggesting an average market rate of about Rp 3,500
per day. The SAR analysis suggests an accounting ratio of 50 percent for conversion of peak
season wages to annual average marginal returns to labor. This gives a shadow wage rate for
labor of Rp 1,750 per day, compared to the SAR estimate of about Rp 2,100 per day in 1992/3
values. These estimates of shadow wage rates are somewhat lower than the estimated returns



- 27 -                            ANNEX 1
to family labor for rice cropping but higher than for the cultivation of maize, derived earlier
in the crop budgets.
D. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
21.        The mission has kept all the remaining assumptions made during the SAR,
including a project life of 35 years.
22.        The re-estimated rate of return under the above assumptions (Table 17) is
O percent, compared to an SAR estimate of 12.5 percent. The reasons for a lower than
originally estimated ERR are: (a) the area of each farm cultivated is smaller than expected
(only 56 percent at full development); (b) lower projected real economic prices for rice and
other outputs; and (c) some early delay in the arrival of settlers.
23.        This analysis is very sensitive to the assumptions used about the amount of non-
farm employment and the opportunity cost of labor. In both cases, the base assumptions may
be considered conservative in the sense that 100 days of non-farm labor per family may be an
underestimate and the opportunity cost of labor may be closer to zero than assumed.
Sensitivity analysis was carried out to test the effect of different assumptions about non-farm
labor and the SWR (Table 18). This shows that if the SWR was zero, the ERR would rise to
7 percent, while an increase in non-farm employment from 100 to 300 days also would
increase the return to 7 percent. The effect of both these events would be to increase the ERR
to 9 percent.
24.        The analysis is also sensitive to other assumptions which have not been tested.
In particular, lower O&M costs and continued non-farm employment opportunities after the
end of the construction period would raise the overall return.



- 28 -
Table 1. Exchange Rates and Price Deflators
Financial Year    Exchange                        Price Deflator                     Price Inflator
(GOI)                 Rate               (100 = Base 1983)                  (100 = Base 1992)
(Rp/US$)
1983/84                 1,000                      100.00                            175.20
1984/85                 1,126                      97.21                             170.30
1985/86                 1,153                      95.23                             166.83
1986/87                 1,373                      89.38                             156.59
1987/88                 1,655                      77.59                             135.94
1988/89                 1,707                      73.30                             128.42
1989/90                 1,788                      67.29                             117.88
1990/91                 1,870                      61.86                             108.38
1991/92                 1,975                      59.00                             103.37
1992/93                2,075                       57.08                             100.00
Table 2. Economic Costs (Constant 1992 Rp million)
85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92        92/93      93/94   Total
Inflator             167      157       136      128      118       108       103       100        100
(base '92)
DOS Provincial    2,619    3,880    8,280    3,457   14,073    1,389    4,304         2,052      1,150  41,203
DOS Centre          441    1,216    1,309        917      772       598      369        587        171   6,380
MOT                   0    1,411    4,176    7,037   10,020   14,149   15,304         6,080          0  58,177
BAPPEDA               0         0        0         0        0         0        0          0          0        0
DGFCA                  0        0      394       191      534       623    1,710      1,284          0   4,736
AARD                   0        0        0         0        0         0        0          0          0        0
Total             3,060    6,507   14,159   11,601   25,399   16,758   21,687    10,003          1,321  110,495
(Rp zlujon)
Total             1.475    3.136    6.824    5.591   12.241    8.076   10.452         4.820      0.636  53.251
(US$ million)f
f At 1992 exchange rate of US$I - Rp2,075.



- 29 -
Table 3. Economic Conversion Factors
Conversion Factors
Civil works                                                                      0.85
Equipment                                                                       0.90
Consultant                                                                       1.00
General                                                                          0.85
Support                                                                          0.90
Mobilisation                                                                     0.25
Training                                                                         0.90
Table 4. Clearance, House Construction and Settlement (Cumulative)
Year                 85/86  1  86/87 1  87/88  1 88/89  1  89/90        90/91  1  91/92   1  92/93
Land clearing:
- SAR (ha)            318      2,982     6,846     11,580    15,060    17,280      19,000     19,000
- Actual (ha)           0        813     2,443     5,486      8,935     13,585     15,733     16,408
House Construction:
- SAR (no.)           175      4,075     7,975     11,500    11,500    11,500     11,500      11,500
- Actual (no.)          0        203       789     2,039      5,039     8,039     10,150      10,800
Seulement:
- SAR (no.)             0      3,100     7,260     11,160    11,500    11,500      11,500     11,500
- Actual (no.)         0         75        733      1,983     4,983     8,039      10,150     10,800
(See Graphs in pages 30 and 31)



- 30 -
Figure 1. Planned and Actual Settlers
no of fami I ies CThousands)
12                              ,      W      ,, i
10                                                -
8
*SA P
6 
6'                 //Act ua I
28
85     86     87      88     89     90      91     92



- 31 -
Figure 2. Planned and Actual Land Clearing
ha cleared (Thousands)
20
15                                 I
1SAR
10                                                          *(pcp
8588
85     86      87      a8      89      90      91      92



- 32 -
Table S. Area Cleared and Cropping Pattern
Areak (ha)
DS L     S  WS       I   DS a          WS             DS WSWS
_________ _990  0/1      91          91/92           92          92/93
Area Clesred                          8,935                     13,595                      15,733
Crop  -ed
Rice                       457        3,364        2,825         7,319         2,416         8,063
Maize                      532         934         1,615         1,699         2,022          480
Cauva                      202         230           217          317          1,216          609
Groundaut                  153         302           444          150           824           227
Mung                       58           24           105           43           316            41
Soya                       84           41           530           63           681           103
Chillie/Other              153         344           456          215           785           347
Tol Planted              1,639        5,239        6,192         9,806         8,260         9,870
Planted/Clead (%)                      59                         72                          63
Rice/Planted (S)           28          64            46           75            29            82
/ Data from wperviaon report for LU 1 only. In addition, about 1,000 ha of houaelota.
hk Supervidionreport, Noveuhar 1991 shows 6,235 ha harveated for 1990/91 and 8,729 ha planted for dry oAmn 1991.
Source: DGFCH.
Table 6. Yields (kg/ha)
WS                  DS          |        WS         I        DS
Crop                __  _  _  _   _ _  _  _   _  _ _  _   _  _  _ _   _  _  _ _   _    _ _  _ __
_________ _______   9/91                  91                 91/92                 92
Rice                       1,350               1,200                2,800               2,500
Maize                      1,595               1,400                2,400                1,800
Casuava                   10,005               8,600               15,000               13,000
Groundnut                   925                  760                 880                  750
Mung                        760                  610                 780                  600
Soya                        840                  860                 900                  700
Chillie                    1,310                 660                1,200               1,100
Source: DWPCH, based on harvested areas.



- 33 -
Table 7. Area Harvested as a Percentage of Planted Area (%)
Crop                         WS                    DS                   WS                    DS
1990/91               1991                 1991/92                1992
Rice                          91                   54                    90                   51
Maize                         98                   90                    59                   90
Cauva                         67                   100                  100                   100
Groundnut                     84                   85                   100                   91
Moong                         88                   64                   100                   90
Soya                          95                   86                   100                   97
Chillie                       92                   85                   100                  100
Totl                          91                   72                    85 s
Table 8. Crop Budgets (Rice)
Wet Sema Rice                       Dry Smo Rice
unit       Price        Qi.         ca      C odrice         Qb.        Cam
(Rp_k_ _     (kig    |              (Rp/Ikg)   I   ()       (tp000)
Rehurns:
Yield                     kg           200       2,500       500.00       250.00      2,500      625.00
Cosb:
Seed                      kg           250        40         10.00        312.50        40        12.50
Fertilizer: Urea          kg           210        40          8.40        210.00        40        8.40
TSP                kg          270         55         14.85        270.00       55        14.85
KCI                kg          270         30         8.10        270.00        50         8.10
Pesticide: Liquid         lit        8,000         1.8       14.40       8,000.00       1.8       14.40
Grn                kg        2,500         0.7        1.75       2,500.00       1.7        1.75
Tools                    item       10,000          1        10.00      10,000.00        1        10.00
Total                                                        67.50                                70.00
Net financial return                                         432.50                              555.00
Net return to labour                                         2,403                               3,469
(Rp/day)
Labour:
Land preparation         days                     40                                   40
Planting                 days                     30                                    30
Weeding                  days                     30                                    30
Fertil. applic.          days                      6                                    6
Pestic. applic.          days                      4                                    4
Water mgment.            days                     20                                    10
Harvesting               days                     30                                    30
Post harvest             days                     20                                    10
Total                     days                    180                                  160
Note: Low rice price due to drying difficulties on KA U during wet season.



- 34
Table 9. Crop Budgets (Palawija Crops - Represented by Maize)
Wet Seaswn Maize                   Dry Season Maize
ie                       Unit       Prces        Qty         cost        Pi          Qty.       Cost
(Rp/kg)  I   (kg)      (Rp'000)     (Rp/kg)      (kg)      (Rp'OOO)
Returns:
Yield                     kg         125.00     1,500       187.50       150.00      1,500     225.00
Cost:
Seed                      kg         156.25       80        12.50        187.50        80       15.00
Fentilizer: Urca          kg         210.00       40         8.40        210.00       40         8.40
TSP               kg         270.00       55         14.85        270.00       55        14.85
KCL               kg         270.00       30          8.10        270.00       30        8.10
Pesticide: Liquid        lit       8,000.00        0           0       8,000.00        0           0
Grn               kg        2,500.00       0            0       2,500.00        0           0
Tools                   itcm      10,000.00        0           0       10,000.00       0           0
Total                                                       43.85                               46.35
Net financial return                                        143.65                              178.65
Net return to labour                                          984                                1,314
(Rp/day)
Labour:
Land preparation         days                    40                                   40
Planting                 days                    30                                   30
Weeding                  days                    20                                   20
FPrtil. applic.          days                     6                                    6
Pestic. applic.          days                     0                                    0
Water xngment.           days                     10                                   0
Harvesting               days                    40                                   40
Post harvest             days                     0                                    0
Total                    days                    146                                 136



- 35 -
Table 10. Farm Development Model (Areas, Yields and Production)
U,kt             11t V Y    __l Yr o    VOW 41 YeerI 'low rO  Y_7   Y.8  Yer 9 YVe 101 Ve1   12Yleser 12 IYewr4          er
Area Cleared:
Houselot        he            0.26   0.26  0.26  0.26  0.26   0.26   0.25   0.26   0.25   0.25    0.26   0.26   0.26   0.26   0.26  0.26
LU 1            hc            0.16  0.50   0.30   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00   1.00  1.00
LU 2            he
Total           he            0.40   0.76   1.16   1.26   1.26   1.26   1.26   1.26   1.26   1.26   1.26    1.26   1.25   1.26   1.25  1.26
Area Planted:
WS   Rice       ha      0.86 0.1275  0.426  0.766   0.86  0.86   0.36   0.85   0.85   0.86   0.86   0.86   0.86   0.86   0.86   0.86  0.86
Palawija   ha    0.16 0.0225 0.076 0.136   0.16   0.15   0.16   0.16   0.16   0.15   0.16   0.16   0.16   0.16   0.15   0.16  0.15
DS    Rice      ha      0.16 0.0225 0.076 0.136  0.16  0.15   0.16   0.15   0.16   0.15   0.15   0.16   0.16   0.16   0.16   0.16  0.16
Pelowija   ha    0.75 0.1126 0.376 0.076  0.75   0.76   0.76   0.75   0.76   0.76   0.75   0.76   0.76   0.75   0.76   0.76  0.75
Peremniol       he            0.10
Bananas
Coconuts   ha            0.16
tre-            16
Yield:
WS  Rice       MT8u          2.500  2.600  2.500  2.500  2.500  2.600  2.600  2.600  2.600  2.600  2.500  2.600  2.600  2.600  2.500 2.600
PelawUj   MT/a          1.600  1.500  1.500  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600   1.600  1.600   1.600  1.600  1.600 1.600
DS   Rice     MT/ha          2.600  2.600  2.600 2.600  2.600  2.600  2.600  2.600  2.600  2.600  2.600  2.600  2.600  2.600  2.600 2.600
Poelwiij   MT/h         1.600  1.600  1.500  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600  1.600 1.500
Perenivoil    bunche/                600   800   600   900   900   900  1,200  1,200  1,200  1,200   1,200  1,200  1,200  1,200 1,200
eonan_          ha
Coconuts ruut/troe                                                 6     10      15     20     26      30     36     40      45    50
Production:
WS  Rice        MT            0.32   1.06  1.91   2.12   2.12   2.12   2.12   2.12   2.12   2.12   2.12   2.12   2.12   2.12   2.12   2.12
Palewija    MT           0.03  0.11   0.20   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.22
DS   Rico       MT            0.06   0.19  0.34   0.38  0.38   0.38   0.38   0.38   0.38   0.38   0.38   0.33   0.38   0.38   0.38   0.38
Paolwija    MT           0.17   0.56   1.01   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13    1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13
Perenmal      bunchee            0    so    60    60    90    90    90    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120   120
Bananee
Coconute  nKte                                                    75    150    225    300    376    460    526    600    675   750



- 36 -
Table 11. Farm Development Model (Inputs)
un4s            Perha Y,  ar                     Ye a2            Year 3          Year4
Onwards
Wet Season
Rice                  Seed                    kg/farm             40              5                17               31              34
Urea                       *                40              5               17               31               34
TSP                                         55              7               23               42               47
KCI                        *                30              4               13               23               26
Pest liq.                                   1.8             0                1                1               2
Pes gran.                                   0.7             0                0                1                1
Tools                   per farn             I              I                I                I                I
Labour                     *               190             24               81               145             162
Palawije              Seed                    kg/ferm             80              2                6                11              12
Urea                                        40              1                3                5                6
TSP                                         55              1                4                7                8
KCI                                         30              1                2                4                5
Labour                 days/farm           146              3               11               20               22
Dry Season
Rice                  Seed                    kg/farm             40              1                3                5                6
Urea                                        40              1                3                5                6
TSP                                         55              1                4                7                8
KCI                                         30              1                2                4                5
Pest liq.                                   1.8             0                0                0               0
Pest gran.                                  0.7             0                0                0               0
labour                 days/farn           160              4               12               22               24
Palawija              Seed                    kg/farm             80              9               30               54               60
Urea                                        40              5               15               27               30
TSP                        *                55              6               21               37               41
KCI                                         30              3               11               20               23
LAbour                 days/farm           136             15               51               92              102
Bananas               Suckers                 per farm           750             75                0                0               0
LAbour                 days/farmn          250             25               25               25               25
Coconuts              Seedlinga               per farm           150             23                0                0                0
Labour                 days/farm           250             38               38               38               38
TOTALS
Seed                  Rice                    kg/farm                             6               20               36               40
Maize                                                      11               36               65               72
Suckers               BaLanas                 per farm                           75                0                0                0
Seedlings             Coconut                                                    23                0                0               0
Fertilizer            Urea                    kg/farm                            11               38               68               76
TSP                                                        16               52               94              105
KCI                                                         9               29               51               57
Pesticide             Liquid                                                      0                1                2               2
Gmnular                                                     0                0                1               1
Tools                                         per farn                            I                I                I                I
Labour                                       days/farm                           109             217              341              372



Table 12. Annual Production and Inputs
Units         S6i7|  1|7m              |       "           ""                                         23 | 91  92|3  |        4                                    97       |                  M   |||-
No, -ttim,          fisub             75           658           1,250         3,000         3,056         2,111            650
Total               fmil              75            733          1,983         4,933         3,039         10,150        10,SD0
Rim                   4                              23           341          1,460         1,479         9,541         16,319       22,216     25,66D     26,83         27,000       n7,oo       27,11)       27,000     27,000
NiwI.                 4kg                            15          14             738          799          5,152          8,812       11,997     13,856     14,492        14,580       14,510 141510            14,580     14,53D
11_3                 1                               0          4,50          43,9D        119,98        301,230        5D4,330      663,490    799,740    911,140     1,011,990    1,121,490    1,213,170    126,52 0   1,296M
Co   m                          0              0              0            0              0             0         5,625     0,Dw    249,325         513,050    1.185,975    1,947,225    2.757,225  3,567,Z25
Sed: Rimc            k                              450          5,448        23,360        69,685       152,656        261,106      355,456    410,556    429,400       432,0       43a2.000     432,15)      432,000    432.00tD
U^w           4kg                            810          9.86          42,045       125,438       274,7S1        469,991     639,821    739,001     772920        T77,000     77600        777.m00      77,00      m,uD|
Suc9c,: RD           000                          5,625        49,35          93,750       225,00M       229,3D         153,325       48,750          0          0            0            0            0            0          0
S:1b: C(>a          ' llOw                        1.6a          14,D5         25,125        67,500        63,740         47,498       14,625          0          0            0            0            0            0          0
Fectil.: Us          kg                            855          10,351        44,3U4       132,407       290,046        496.101      675,366    78D,056    815,816        580,800    850,.80      3828D         m.8w      3518,8W  |
TSP        kg                           1,176        14,233         61,02        12,006D       395,814       6S2,139       925,629   1,072,578   1,113,970   1,052,02     1,052,002    1,052,D2    1,052,002   1,052,0D2
KCL        kg                            641          7,763         33,288       99,305        217,535        372,076     506,525    555,042    07,650         622,554     622,54       62,554       622,554    622,554
pawi.:    Liq.       lit.                           20            245          1,D51         3,136         6,853         11,750       15,996     18,475     19,188        20,237      20,237       2D,237       2C,237     2D,237
Gm.        kg                              8             95            409        I1D            2,671          4,569        6,22D      7,185      7,462         7,496       7,496        7,496        7,496      7,496
TooG                 n.                              75           733          1,983         4,953         *,039         10,150       10,850     10,00      10.8I         10,WD       10.8C         10,IO00)    lo,        10,8D
1Abow               dq.                           8,163        37,953        304,627      tSt474        1,683,232     2,654,030    3,424,452  3.,50,651   3,99,409     4,016,520    4,016,520    4,016,55    4,016,520  4,016,52|
l~~~~~~~     



Table 13. Economic Price Proiections (Rice)
JUnit                1985 1     19861      1971       1988        9 19 1   1990 1      1991 1    121        193 1      1941       199 1      20o 1       no
Import Pariy Price
WMP (exportprice) oant 90 S        S/t           -       315        315        316        316       338        287        308        272        261        258        260        245        237
MUV (adjst to 1992 vsk.)           St            -     106.53    106.53     106.53     106.53     106.53     106.53     106.53     106.53    106.53     106.53     106.53     106.53      106.53
WMP (cxpotpnce) const  '92 S       S/t           -       336        336        337       337        360        306        328        290        278        275        277        261        252
Quayity mdjt (90S)                  %          0.90      302        302        303       303        324        275        295        261        250        247        249        235        227
Ffeihg  md ibwu*we                 S/t        37.00       37         37        37         37         37         37         37         37         37         37        37          37         37
C.i.f. Pmbi                        Sit h                 339        339        340       340        361        312        332        298        287        284        286        272        264
Exdchc rate                                   2,075    2.075      2.075      2,075      2,075     2,075      2,075      2.075      2,075      2.075      2.075      2,075      2,075       2.075
C.i.f. Paiebag                    Rp/14          .       703        703        705        705       749        648        690        618        596        590        594        564        548
Portebyig(8%)                                  0.08       56         56        56         56         60         52         55         49         48         47        48         45          44
Trufaw to v&o-luers               Rp&k        30.00       -30       -30        -30        *30       -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30
T _wfer tomill                    Rp/kg       30.00      -30        -30        -30        -30       -30         -30        -30       -30        -30        -30        -30        -30         -30
Ex-mil price Palmb-g              Rp/4g          -       700        700       702        702        749        640        685        607        584        577        582       549         532
Caweniosto paddy                    b          0.65      455        455       456        456        487        416        445        395        379        375        378        357        346
Milrs ad kenin                    Rp/kg       20.00      -20        -20        -20       -20        -20        -20        -20        -20        -20        -20       -20         -20        -20
Tr.apost to KA It                 Rp/kg       30.00      -30        -30       -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        .30        -30        -30        -30
Tarwat fo mill                    Rp/kS       10.00      -10        -10       -10        -10        -10        -10        -10        -10        -10        -10       -10         -10        -10
E    o nicfarm-gepeice            Rp/kg         -        395        395       396        396        427        356        385        335        319        315       318        297         286
Export Parity Price
WMP (expot pric)       t '90 S     Sh                    315        315       316        316        338        287        308        272        261        258        260       245         237
MIUV (aditMi *92 vahw)                                106.53     106.53     106.53     106.53     106.53     106.53     106.53    106.53     106.53     106.53     106.53     106.53      106.53
WMP (ezporpnpice) conw 92 S        Sh/                   336        336       337        337        360        306        328        290        278        275        277       261         252
QOlity adjt        (90%)           %           0.85      285        285       286        286        306        260        279        246        236        234        235        222        215
Fight and imvmc                    S/t         0.00        0          0         0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0         0          0           0
C.i.f. Pimnbmg                     Sht                   285        285       286        286        306        260        279        246        236        234       235        222         215
Exdhge rae                                    2,075    2,075      2,075      2.075      2,075     2,075      2.075      2,075      2.075      2,075      2.075      2,075      2,075       2,075
C.ifL Pakmbug                    Rp/kg                  592        592       594        594        635        539        579        511        490        485       489        460         445
pott hI   g(8 %)                              -0.08      -47        -47        -47       -47        -51        -43        -46        -41        -39        -39       -39         -37        -36
Thwhr to wolumam_                 Rp/kg       30.00      -30        -30       -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30
Tr_Afr to mim                     Rp/#        30.00       -30       -30        -30       -30        -30        -30         -30       -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30
-mil  price PmInu-Y               Rp/kg                   485       485        486        486        524       436         472       410        391        386        389        364         350
Coaveniontopaddy                    %          0.65      315        315        316       316        341        283        307        267        254        251        253        236        227
Mllift     claming                Rp/kg       20.00      -20        -20        -20       -20        -20        -20        -20        -20        -20        -20        -20        -20        -20
Truitout to KA                    Rp/kg       30.00       -30       -30       -30        -30        -30        -30         -30       -30        -30        -30        -30        -30        -30
Temupoetto nill                   Rp/kg       10.00       -10       -10       -10        -10         -10       -10         -10       -10        -10        -10        -10        -10        -10
Enomic flm-aate tnce            IR/kg                    255        255        256       256        281        223        247        207        194        191        193        176         167
A'ume ibportJlxport prity p1k                            325        325       326        326        354        290        314        271        257        253        256        237        227
Parity twic (adjuted for FY)                             325        325        326        333       338        296        305        267        256        254        256        237         227



Table 14. Economic Price of Maize
Pariy Price                  Uni ,    iairial   1965    1986    1987       1983      1989     199         911   1992       193       1994     1995      2000     2005
(1992/93)
Market price (constant '92)  Rp/kg     200       200      200      200      200       200      200       200       200      200       200       200      200       200
Conversionfactor(rice)                 250       1.30     1.30    1.30      1.33      1.35     1.18      1.22      1.07     1.02      1.01      1.02     0.95     0.91
Econonic farmgattpnce        Rp/kg               260      260      261      266       270      237       244       214      205       203       204      189       181
(aidjuted for FY)



Table 15. Economic Price Projections (Bananas and Coconuts)
UitI 1       1I I            I8       I 19       1        I IM       1 1991   1 1991      I                                         12
B_
WMP(coant'90prices)              SA       551       535        SI       502        578       541        548        471       443        439       434        422      414
WMP (co-au '92 pnces)            SA       587       570        552       535        616       576        5S4        502       472        468       462        450      441
1ex(conM  '92prices; baw                  117        114       110        107       123        115       116        100        94         93        92         90      8S
(cdjuedfoPFY)                       116        113       109        111       121        115       112         99        94         93        92         90       aS
Economic and Fnwcial Prices:
Bunch                      Rp    1,390       1,348     1,306      1,324     1,445      1,379     1,343      1,179      1,123     1,112      1,095     1,072     1,052
suckar                     Rn       347       337        326       331        361       345        336        295       2S1        27S        74        26S      263
Cec_
WMP (coant '90 pnces)            Sh       S60       770        610       593        546       337        424        554       49         509       535        564      457
WMP (conai  '92 prices)          Sh       916       820        724       632        532       359        452        590       531        542       570       601       487
"x (cot. '92 pnces; base                  155       139        123       107         99        61         77        100        90         92        97        102       92
(adjufd to FY)                      151        135       119       105         89        65         82         97        90         93        97        102       32
Economic and Fawcial Prices:
Nuts                       RP       361       322        214       250        213       155        197        233       216        222       230        243      197
Seedling                   RD    1.203       1.073       945       835        709       515        656        775       719        740       768        S10      656
Coca" 0I
Eip%   price (contai '90        S/MT     160        770        680       593        546       337        424       554        498        509       535       564       457
ExM  $pric(cont  '92            S/MT    916         820        724       632        582       359        452       590        531        542       570       601       487
Freigbland inrc                 S/MT       50        50         50        50         50        50         50         50        50         50        50         50       50
C.i.f. Indonesi                 S/MT    966         870        774       682        632       409        502       640        581        592       620       651       537
Forex                                   2,075     2,075      2,075     2,075      2,075     2,075      2,075      2,075     2,075      2,075     2,075      2,075    2,075
C.i.f. Indonesia                Rp/kg  2,005       1,806     1,607      1,415     1,311       849      1,041      1,321      1,205     1,229      1,286     1,350    1,114
Port hadling                    Rp/kg     30         30         30        30         30        30         30        30         30         30        30         30       30
TrUnUport rom faCory            Rp/kg      20        20         20        20         20        20         20         20        20         20        20         20       20
Fx-fctOryprice                  Rp/k8  2,055       1,856     1,657      1,465     1,361       899      1,091      1,378     1,255      1,279      1,336     1,400    1,164
Poesaing to oil                           319       218        257       227        211       139        169       214        195        198       207       217       ISO
TrOanho to fctory               Rp/kg    -20         -20       -20        -20       -20        -20       -20        -20        -20       -20        -20       -20       -20
Economic farm- Pate rCe (mts)             299       268        237       207        191       119        149        194       175        178       187        197      160
aity Pre (ajtd t FY)            Rp/kg    291        260        229       203        173       127        160        189       175        181       187        197      160



Table 16. Economic Price Projections for Fertilizers
P3111  Prm                                    unit        Op-U              116            1i            19 7l         1<            19 1ig                       1991          1^             1993          14            193           z              26
Ursa
WmM .         Fa n        _                   161                             199           137           175           143           1I             157           16             134           141           148           133            1           159
mUV                                                            107            107           107          17            107           107            107           107           107            107           107           107            107         107
WuMw      ip ui.                             SW r                             212           199           136           174            149           167           179            143           150           136           16      W                  I 0
Fm g md  _w~                                 wr               15m                            15            15            15             15.00  15 15  15  is  Is  15  IS           is            IS            15             is            15          i3
Ex-.h     pm     Psbg                          Mr1                            227           214           DlI           139           164            1I2           194            153          1O             173           178            197         1I4
-_  -_                                       4 S             2.075
E-&m  y         PWm                          Bpft                             471           444           416           391           341            378          40             327            343           353           2                          335
HgIlibi d                                    Rp% 4mAk 400                                     0             0            0             40             0             4             40             40            40            40            40           4D
Romp  md hm bmshe                    Rp/g             31.00            2             20D      D      0            20            2D            20             20            20            2D            2D             20      D                 2
_E ~  hin                                    Up/pk                            531           504           471           451           01             438           462           337            43            413           429           495          443
PM*  prim o        s  toY)                  *Rp'Ag                                          49            471           439           410            444           444           31             467          40              09           46           40
worm         prim              _             sdff                             177           173           1'M           165            12            132           130           114            110           115           120            1ID         123
1Uv                                                            107            107           107           107           107              i           1017 107                    107            107           107            17I                       107
Worm mp prm                                 SVWT                             19            184          1I1            177           IQ2            141           133           121            117           123           120           133          131
Fu.i& _dkm                                   W r             450               45            45            45            45            45             45            45            45             45            45            45           4f            45
C.LE. bcaus                                  S/MT                             234           229           226           Ml            D7             136           133           156            162           166           173            17t         176
Fcx                                           p/S            2,05
CAl.   kmh                                   Rp/k                             415           476           469           40              9            3N5           3ml           345            337           34            339          s33           365
Pcd emffmg                              RPU              30.0             30            30             3              0            30            30            30            32             30            30            30             30          30              4
T _      to Is,bsr                           Up/g            100om             10            10            10            10            10             10            10             10            10            10            to            la           IC
T _      ton,oiler                           Rp/g            30A               30            30            21            30            30             31            30            30             30      3e                 320            2            30
Tud.I  to                                    Upm R/kg        20.0              2             2             2D      m      D            21             20            20              D    D       20            20            2D            20           20
_ ,  &jm.w pri-                             Upkg                             m75            566           559           5s0           519            475           471           435           427            438           449           40           45
P*  prfim 0sl   b                                                            572            54            557           so            S=            474            4             4             42             44            40            4d           4s
KCL
W         d _ mIim                           S/lU                             122           112           102            92           104            9g            107           103            104           los           1OS           107          105
141V                                                           107            107           107           107           107           107            107           107           107            107           107           107           107          107
W=W daqm prk4 SurT                                                            120           119           109            9a           III            104           114           112            III           115           115           114          112
FW& 1   _d WwwA/ S16                                  45.00            45            45             45            45            45            45            45             45            45            45            45             45          45
.L.f. 1 _                                   J1/(g                           175           164            154          143            156           149           ID           I7             156           ItD            Is           19          157
RpcS            2,07
f. LI._                                    Rp/g                             30            341           319           277           323            310           30            325            323           332           332           32           325
Pw t                                         Up/,           320.               30           320            20             0            20             30                   3       0 3           30            30            30            30 
T_o .aow ni                                Rp/kg            IOD              10             10            to            is            10            10             10            10            10             10           10             10           10
Ts_ o intur                                 U               30m              30             30            30            30            20            30             30            30            30            30             30            30          30
_lo  f                              Rp              2300       D                     D 21         20             D             20            20 D0                       20             20 D          2D                           20          D
.,  sb  pf _                          UPkg                             453            431           469           337           413           4W            420            415           413           423            422           4           415
hr qy pus OMhi tom                          Rp% U                            46             02           'A             33            410           46             419           415           415            42            42            49           45



Table 17. Econoniic Cash Flow
(Rp million)
-1*       86/6         37/88 i       88           99            03             19           23             39            00            89           63            79          90/3         994          amS       88/42-
N4i.p-           0         0           -6         -36           +82           III           854          1,083         1,491          1,876        2,146         2,314        2,503         2,o91        2,834       2,214       2,312
lkiu
liR4ock         0          4          37           99           249          402            540           3             s400 so                                                540          540           540         so          540
NaFh.n          0          26         257          43B         1,744         2,814         3.553         3,790         1,890          1,890        1,890         1,t90        1,890         1,890        1,890        1,850      1,890
T.a Not         0          30         287          501         2,075         3,327         4,914         5,403         3,921         4,30          4,526         4,744        4,933         5,121        5,2S4        4,644      4,742
B4ndlls
PC             3,080     6,507      14,159       1I,.ml       25,339        16,721        21.67         11,323
O&M                                                                                                                    1,089         1,089         1,019 Im                   1,(169        1,089        1,089        1,089      1,089
Cou
Tot.l Cod      3,060     6,507       14,159      11,601        25,339       16,758        21,687        11,323         1,089          1,089        1,OB9                      1,089         1.8          1,089        1,8        1,089
Tod ld Ine
mwII          A3,060     -4477      -13,872      -11,1W       -23.244      .13,431        -16,773       -5,92D        +2,832         +3,217       +3,487        +3,655       +3.844        +4,032       +4.195       +3,555     +3,653
NPV (106, 35 yo)         R  -44,286 millif
ERR (35 Y)          -  0%



- 43 -
Table 18. Sensitivity Analysis
(a) NPV (35 years, 10%) Rp '000 million)
Shadow
Wage Rate                                Non-Farm Employment
(Rp/day)                                  (days/year/family)
100            150             200             250-           300
1,1750          -44            -37             -29             -22             -14
1,000          -33            -27             -21             -16             -10
500          -25             -21             -16             -12             -7
250          -21             -17             -14             -10             -6
0           -18            -14             -11              -8             -4
(b) ERR (35 years) %
Shadow
Wage rate                               Non-Farm Employment
(Rp/day)                                  (days/year/family)                             I
100            150             200            250             300
1,750            0              2               4               5              7
1,000            4              5               6               7              8
500            5               6               7               8              9
250            6               7               7               8              9
0            7               7               8               8              9






MAP SECTION






K;6 <8    MA,AYS,A SA.n.                              PROJECT LOCATION                                       TYPICAL  BLOCK  LAYOUT
K-\\iselil-ZERs  X  (   5   ) q ')'-~~<\\          g-  P,.., A-o  SSRP)                                        SECONDARY  UNIT
O! 0                    Sea                   n                  \FF}~So L    'ooSeo.c A,= s SSRP_), l  
->  14104 ,A(,                                            El]  05FS  (F-, _     t,t0
*~~~ N''~ G|.am F5d. dJ' M                                                                                           1.  --1 f k   , Avr < -z_IL _     1E    He  ol
SOMA!t*A'f  1                                                                                       I~~~P....  09
G0)10,/=O                                                 o    oo
0-- ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ' _                                      -
I  5.              -''         Sout h      C/h Sea                                          -E 
I                    '       ~    ~ ~~~0 25       50          ,, 
P-- D-- I. C,-
*eodr                 *.a.,os                                \ >/.,   + f5 S
A                                                                                                                          I,s,        'fl
F                                                                              -C                                           0-
3-                                                                                                                        .......g..b. 
GENERAL PLAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~    .uo,0a.oeCa
Q". e Co.ols~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.a-d. 0aag
C.Ileclo,   ~-                                                                                   F,,  oadl 1
CIy, pe.t 115c. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as5,VsI  &,kGs.p
.:   - Oc.~~                         ~                                  ,a ao..l1111..1
p    40- 70 c'                                                                                         11,,  Mll   5a,a
co.t..'s, .,,  et- ~  ~         ~         ~          '                                                 11  ay.aaa.a.a
0S,                                                           14~~~~~~~~~~0,osps  s a  0!



