Document of
The World Bank
FILE 03     '
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3812-IND
RE PORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$65.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
May 8, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit         Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00           =   Rp 1,000
Rp 1 million      =   US$1,000
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AARD          -   Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
DGFCA         -   Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
DGMG          -   Directorate General of Mobilization and Guidance
in the Ministry of Transmigration (MOT)
DGSP          -   Directorate General of Settlement Preparation in
MOT
DOS           -   Directorate of Swamps in Ministry of Public Works
DPU           -   Departmen Perkerjaan Umum - Ministry of Public
Works
FSRP          -   First Swamp Reclamation Project
GOI           -   Government of Indonesia
ICB           -   International Competitive Bidding
IPB           -   Institut Pertanian Bogor - Bogor Agricultural
University
IPEDA         -   Land Tax
ITB           -   Institut Teknologi Bandung - Bandung Institute of
Technology
LCB           -   Local Competitive Bidding
MOC           -   Ministry of Cooperatives
MOT           -   Ministry of Transmigration
O&H           -   Operation and Maintenance
P3S           -   Proyek Pengairan Pasang Surut
- Project Unit for Tidal Swamp Reclamation
PLP           -   Directorate of Land Preparation for Settlement
in MOT
PPL           -   Village Level Extension Workers
PPM           -   Mid-level Agricultural Extension Workers
PPS           -   Subject Specialist, Agricultural Extension
PPW           -   Provincial Public Works
Repelita      -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I,
1969-74, Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III,
1979-84, Repelita IV, 1984-89)
SSRP          -   Second Swamp Reclamation Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
Loan and. Project Summary
Borrrower:               Republic of Indonesia.
Amount:                  US$65.0 million (including the capitalized front end
fee).
Terms:                   Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable rate.
Project Description:    The proposed project, the second Bank-assisted swamp
reclamation project, focusses on strengthening insti-
tutions implementing the Government of Indonesia's
(GOI's) program of swamp development. The project
will also help finance a six-year timeslice of an
eight-year program of reclaiming and developing about
30,000 ha of swamp lands in South Sumatra and settling
about 11,500 families in the newly developed area.
Project works will comprise the entire primary and
secondary drainage infrastructure, about 60% of ter-
tiaries, about 40% of on-farm works in the 30,000 ha
development, and all houses and settlement. GOI will
complete the remaining reclamation works by end-
1991. In addition, master plans will be prepared for
future swamp reclamation schemes and feasibility
studies and detailed designs will be prepared for
upgrading some older schemes developed to minimum
standards by GOI, a selected number of which will be
upgraded. Technical assistance will be provided to
agencies engaged in project preparation and implemen-
tation. Agricultural research for swamp development
will be expanded in South Sumatra and South Kalimantan
and extension services will be improved, especially in
*                                pest control.  The development of 30,000 ha will
benefit directly 11,500 mostly-lanld ess families from
Java and Bali to be settled there - and increase
paddy production by about 58,000 tons a year at full
development. The main risks in swamp reclamation
schemes are slow start up, slow implementation and
delayed agricultural development. Project formulation
1/   Up to 15% could be local families wishing to settle in the project area.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
reflects the experience gained in the first Bank-
assisted swamp reclamation project (FSRP, Loan 1958-
IND) in improving the quality of works and increasing
implementation efficiency, and the experience gained
in ongoing GOI schemes onland and agricultural
development. The rate of farm development assumed in
project analysis is conservative, derived from
achievements in the ongoing program.
Estimated Cost:a/                                   Local        Foreign    Total
…---   (US$ million)--------
Reclamation and Settlement
Civil works                                       13.7         13.4       27.1
Transmigration                                    17.3          5.6       22.9
Subtotal                                     31.0         19.0       50.0
Institutional Support
Consultants                                        2.8          6.3        9.1
Training                                            -           0.2        0.2
Equipment                                          0.1          4.2        4.3
Well drilling and testing                           -           0.1        0.1
Test farms and facilities                          0.5          0.3        0.8
Subtotal                                      3.4         11.1       14.5
Engineering and Administration                         5.3           -        5.3
Base Costs                                   39.7         30.1       69.8
Physical contingencies                             6.2          4.6       10.8
Price contingencies                               20.1          7.6       27.7
Total Project Cost                           66.0         42.3      108.3
Front-end Fee                                       -           0.2        0.2
Total Financing Required                     66.0         42.5      108.5
Financing Plan:
Bank                                              22.5         42.5       65.0
Government                                        43.5/b         -        43.5
Total                                        66.0         42.5      108.5
/a Includes taxes on civil works of $1.3 million.  All figures rounded off to
nearest decimal.
/b In addition, GOI will finance an estimated $12.3 million to complete all
projects works not included in the six-year time slice.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY                       1985    1986    1987       1988      1989    1990   1991
Annual                           2.0       6.0    15.0       15.0      12.0      7.0    8.0
Cumulative                       2.0       8.0    23.0      38.0      50.0    57.0   65.0
Rate of Return:      12.5% on reclamation and settlement. /b  The ERR of
institutional support cannot be quantified.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 4645a-IND, dated May 7, 1984.
a!   The project will end in 1990.  However, disbursements are expected to
continue into 1991.
/b   About 74% of the total project cost.



.4



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR A SECOND SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$65.0 million, (including
the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance a Second Swamp Reclamation
Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies and Prospects for Economic Growth and
Transformation" (No. 5066-IND dated April 26, 1984) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 2, 1984. Annex I gives selected social and
economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.         The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two
million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of
agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1982 estimate of GNP Yer capita is
US$580, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.         Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability, liberalize the
1/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives for domestic and
foreign private investment. However, the dominant external influence over the
past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant variability, in
foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil and gas sector
rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in 1980/81, when the
current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil receipts also
provided about 60% of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and helped
finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures has also
helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the support for
agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support services and
effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This supported an
agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the past decade, and movement
towards self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth
rate during the 1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from a very low
base and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past eighteen months include:
(a)  a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products over the past two
years, which have largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings; and
(e) approval of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at increasing
government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplifying the
structure of rates and improving administration.
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. Non-oil GDP rose by an estimated 4%
during 1983 and the balance of payments situation is improving. In partic-
ular, the current account deficit has been reduced from US$7.3 billion (8.4%
of GNP) in 1982/83 to about US$4.2 billion (6.0% of GNP) in 1983/84. The
major factors responsible for this improvement are higher export earnings from
non-oil products (such as rubber, palm oil, tin, plywood and fertilizer) and
import cuts resulting from the Government's efforts to curb aggregate



-3-
demand. The rephasing of the public investment program was particularly
effective in reducing import levels. The Government's restraint is also
evident in the budget, where real expenditures have risen on average by only
2% p.a. over the past two years. Routine expenditure has been held in check
by a freeze on civil service salaries (a 15% increase is budgeted for
1984/85), a sharp cut in budgetary transfers to public corporations and
reduced subsidies on food, fertilizer and petroleum products. This fiscal
discipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about 12% in
1983/84, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983 devaluation
and the recent petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        A sustained rate of growth of at least 5% p.a. is probably necessary
to have a significant impact on employment creation and poverty alleviation
over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a growth rate, without
generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is one of the major
challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation of the economy
will require continued action in three key policy areas: management of the
public investment program, rationalization of the external trade regime and
development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import
content of investment while still meeting the Government's employment
objectives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to
facilitate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment
program. Possible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans
(at least for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high
priority projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection
procedures. The Government is also considering ways to improve project imple-
mentation, so that investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given
the budgetary constraints, it is expected that the private sector will be
called upon to play an increasingly important role in capital formation. To
encourage this process, the Government announced in August 1983 that there
would be a major overhaul of the regulatory framework for private investment,
with the objective of simplifying and streamlining the licensing system.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for



-4-
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. The difficult external payments situation faced by the country
since 1982 has reinforced this tendency. There are strong arguments for
adopting trade and industrial policies which provide more equal incentives for
supplying the domestic and export markets. A comprehensive program of import
policy reforms might include a rollback of import bans, gradual reductions in
tariffs, adjustment assistance to industries affected by import liberalization
and anti-dumping legislation to protect domestic industries from unfair
competition.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the
importance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are
two important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of
growth to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of
these is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the
natural increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside
those of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the
Other Islands, of which 1 million were resettled through the official trans-
migration program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita
consumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output.
This is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty.  Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population



living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and
possibly rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the
1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. The
1979-81 bumper rice harvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and
incomes in Java, while agricultural incomes in parts of the Other Islands
dependent on export crops declined. This situation may have been reversed
following the 1983 devaluation, but evidence on this is still inconclusive.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. As compared to the 1970s, the growth
in the labor force is expected to increase over the next decade (to about 2.7%
p,a.) while economic growth will be lower. The resultant squeeze in the labor
market is not expected to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but
there is a serious risk of stagnant or declining labor income in both rural
areas and the urban informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint
facing the country, Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the
pattern of economic growth. Although over the long term the structural shift
in employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in the
economy. It is therefore important to maintain an appropriate policy on
agricultural mechanization (e.g., by ensuring purchases of equipment are at
economic prices), to spread labor demand on Java throughout the agricultural
year (e.g., by improving water resource management and development) and to
encourage agricultural development on the Other Islands. It is also important
that public expenditures are increasingly directed toward sectors, such as
social programs and rural infrastructure, which generate employment or ease
the burden of adjustment on the poor. For the private sector, the Government
needs to ensure that incentives appropriately reflect the priority for labor-
intensive investments.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in junior
secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of the
population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and
a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities,
notably at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement
in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%
respectively for 1990.



-6-
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved.  Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$4.6 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.4 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good (see paragraph 16) and a
comfortable level of external reserves has been rebuilt over the past year.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1983 is estimated at
US$23.7 billion, with an additional US$11.2 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 47% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 22%; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1983 is estimated at 14
years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently.
Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports, at or below 20%. However, because of the sharp
drop in oil export receipts in 1983, the ratio rose to 23% in that year. With
the projected levels and composition of borrowings and export earnings,
Indonesia's public debt service ratio, again based on net exports, would rise
to about 28% in 1985 and then gradually decline to about 23% by the end of the
decade. With private MLT debt included, the total debt service ratio, based
on the conventional concept of gross exports, would rise from 19% in 1983 to
around 22% during 1985-88 and decline to 20% in 1990. While debt management
will require careful attention in the coming years, the projected debt service
ratios are not excessive by international standards.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 2/
17.       As of March 31, 1984, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling US$931.8 million, and 85 Bank loans amounting to US$6,259.5 mil-
lion. IFC commitments totalled US$162.2 million. The share of the Bank Group
in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1982
was 13.3%, and the share of debt service, 7.9% compared with 11.2% and 7.6%,
respectively, in 1981. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984. Given the critical importance of
2/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fifth Urban
Development Project (No. P-3778-IND), circulated under cover of R84-91,
dated April 19, 1984.



agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food security and
exDorts, over one-third of Bank Group supported projects have been in
_;,tor.  In addition, loans and credits have beern extended to virtaali- all
other sectors of the economy, including transportation, education, urban
development,, water supply, rural development, nutrition, industrial devel-
oprment financing (including small-scale industry), power, telecouns
population aurd technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and inr line wih tne
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Ba_a Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then tre
expansion of infrastructure and production facilities.  Special attentinr was
also given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution.  Repe'ita ITI (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation.  This focus, whicih
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, zreqiired
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services.  While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been 5-1iven to
these priorities.
19.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surolus to
deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all 2 k ale 
hood decelerate in the short run.  To minimize this adverse imDact will
require effective policy reform to improve the environment 2for private innvest-
ment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments in
industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources develop-
ment can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is being
geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening oL lending to the subsector
and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level. in
addition, in order to ease the Government's current resource constraint and
maintain the pace of project implementation in priority areas, we have taken
steps, under the Special Assistance Program, to accelerate disbursaments i-n 17
ongoing projects in the treecrops and irrigation sectors and one project each
in the energy and transport sectors. The only significant shift anticipated
in the composition of lending involves a rapid expansion planned in the educa-
tion sector, a direct response to the severe shortage of skilled manpower.  Tn
the industrial sector, in-depth sector work is focused on a policy to promote
industrialization which will build on Indonesia's comparative advantage in
labor- and resource-intensive industries,  This analysis may lead to a ser'es
of industrial projects which would facilitate sectoral reform. In energy,
sector work and continued lending is concentrating on policies to diversify;
indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning0
Irrigation and tree crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of.
lending in view of the importance of these sectors, and continued support for
transport is anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of
social services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development and



water supply, will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the devel-
opment of innovative low-cost solutions.
20.       The last few years have seen major improvements in the disbursement
ratio3" from a low of 13% in FY80, to 18% in FY83. The poor FY80 ratio was in
large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments during the
FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia increased by 122%
,_ompared to a Bank wide increase of 83%. However, it also reflected implemen-
tation difficulties arising out of GOI's budgetary, procurement and payment
procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of
credit. The severe shortage of managerial and technical manpower of course
compounds the problem. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank
to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia
to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and
f-inancial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and
regular joint review procedures to identify general and project specific
problems and work out corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars
were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of
these joint initiatives, GOI has taken measures to streamline some of the
complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
The Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify problems in the
construction industry with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions
and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been
identified as one of the major causes of implementation problems in
Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation difficulties,
many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a later
stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts, improvements are
taking place. This was reflected in an increase in disbursements from
US$204.0 million in FY79 to US$582.8 million in FY83. It is nevertheless
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
21.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending
has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being
justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below
the IDA cutoff of US$625. Given Indonesia's much improved creditworthiness,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
22.       The proposed project constitutes the eighth lending operation for
Inldonesia presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects at
an advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the Small Enterprise
Development and Fourteenth Power Projects.
3/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 9 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR, TRANSMIGRATION
AND SWAMP DEVELOPMENT
The Agricultural Sector
23.       GOI's major objectives for the agricultural and rural sector are:
(a) to create productive employment to raise incomes of the rural poor; (b) to
increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demands; (c) to expand
agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder tree crops; and (d) to
ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water and other
natural resources.
24.       Agriculture provides more than half of Indonesia's employment, and
about 30% of its GDP. Despite a declining average annual growth since the
late 1960s, agriculture remains of paramount importance to nearly 80% of the
nation's population living in rural areas where agriculture is the major
source of employment and income. In the 1980s, increases in agricultural
production are expected from intensified land use, yield increases, and devel-
opment of new land, mostly in Other Islands.
Transmigration
25.       Nearly 97 million of Indonesia's 150 million people (1983) live on
Java, on 7% of Indonesia's land area (45% of its cropped area) at an average
density of over 2,100 people/sq km of cropped land. With practically all
arable land in Java, Bali and Lombok already under cultivation, there is
tremendous population pressure on land resources. Destruction of hillside
forests and resulting soil erosion exacerbate already serious floods and
associated damage in coastal areas, and cause heavy silting of irrigation sys-
tems. Meanwhile, potentially arable areas, though of low fertility, lie
unutilized or underutilized, in the Other Islands. Organized efforts to move
people to the Other Islands began some 75 years ago and today, as a result of
officially sponsored transmigration, spontaneous migration, and internal
growth, an estimated two and a half million transmigrants are living in Other
Island settlements.
26.       Government attaches high priority to transmigration to promote
regional development, create employment, reduce population pressures and
increase production of food and export crops. Before the mid-1970s both the
size and quality of the transmigration program were limited by a shortage of
funds. In 1978, however, with improved resources, coupled with shortfaIls in
rice production and increasing landlessness, Government accelerated the trans-
migration program. To achieve this, Government transferred implementation
responsibitaty from the Directorate General of Transmigration (DGT) to various
ministries- and established the Office of the Junior Minister for
4/   The Ministries of Transmigration and Public Works have major implementing
responsibilities. The Ministries of Agriculture and Home Affairs support
implementation and, following development, are joined by social services
ministries.



- 10 -
Transmigration (JMT) as coordinator.  The Repelita III (1979-83) program 5egan
slowly, but by the end of 1983 about 250,000 families (1,250,000 people)-
will have been moved in little over four years to Other Islands, and there are
long waiting lists for transmigration in various parts of Java and Bali. To
accommodate an increasing number of transmigrants during Repelita IV
(1984-88), GOI, in March 1983, centralized nearly all responsibilities in a
reorganized Ministry of Transmigration.
Swamp Reclamation and Development
27.       About 6 million ha of coastal swamps in Indonesia (1 million ha in
Sumatra, I million ha in Kalimantan and about 4 million ha in Irian Jaya) have
agricultural potential, especially for rice production, though conservation of
primary forests, soil constraints and land rights may reduce the area which
can be developed. Coastal swamps occupy broad, flat zones that are partially
inundated during rainy seasons by high tides or floods in adjacent rivers.
Recent marine clays are dominant soil types, overlain by peat layers of
various depth and at various stages of decomposition. Many of these clays,
containing sulfidic elements, are potentially acid sulfate and can, upon
drying, become toxic to crops. As long as they are kept wet, or well leached
if drying does occur, they can support agriculture.
28.       Development of coastal swamps for cultivation of rice and coconuts
was started by Banjarese and Buginese settlers (from Kalimantan and Sulawesi,
respectively) who, spontaneously, reclaimed suitable areas along major rivers
in South Sumatra and South Kalimantan. Prior to World War II, official swamp
reclamation was limited, but in the late 1960s GOI developed six reclamation
pilot projects of nearly 30,000 ha for the settlement of about 8,000
families. By 1978 nearly a half million ha of swamps had been reclaimed, 50%
by GOI and the remainder mainly by spontaneous migrants.
29.       Government Objectives and Experience.  GOI's main objectives in
large-scale swamp reclamation works are to move people from Java and Bali to
Other Islands and provide them with land and an opportunity to produce food.
GOI has adopted a multi-staged implementation strategy to maximize coverage of
the program with limited resources. In the initial stage, a basic drainage
infrastructure for land reclamation is built and about half the allocated land
(or 1.25 ha out of 2.25 ha per family) is cleared for subsistence (rice-based)
agriculture. Future stages will comprise upgrading of the infrastructure, and
provision of irrigation and other inputs to increase farm production. The
cost of the initial stage (land reclamation and settlement) is about $6,000
per family, or $2,700 per reclaimed ha.
30.       Though the program has generally succeeded in achieving its
objectives, the quality of construction has been poor in many developments,
works were not constructed to specifications, and lands not properly cleared,
5/   About 25% of these are spontaneous transmigrants.  About 83% of all
families settled in upland areas and the remaining 17%,in reclaimed
swamps.



mostly because of inadequate supervision. Farm development in most reclaimed
swamps has proved to be slower than expected, and agricultural support has
often been inadequate. There is little doubt that resolution of these issues
will improve the cost effectiveness of the program, and this challenge has
played a major role in formulating this project.
31.       Bank Group Assistance.  The first Bank-assisted Swamp Reclamation
Project (FSRP   Loan 1958-IND) became effective two years ago.  It will
reclaim about 9,000 ha of swamps at Karang Agung in South Sumatra, settle
about 3,200 transmigrant families, and develop cropping on about 7,200 ha.
The implementation of the FSRP, initially very slow and poorly coordinated,
has been gradually improving, primarily as a result of technical assistance at
the site and at higher management echelons. Transmigration and settlement is
now closely following progress of civil works and the first group of 500
families, settled in 1983 already grow fooderops in houselots. Transmigration
is expected to continue closely following completion of civil works, and at
this time is about six months behind appraisal schedules. The impact of the
FSRP's development will not be quantifiable until the 1990s, or several years
after project completion but experience during the past two years with the
FSRP's implementation and experience from on-going Government schemes clearly
indicates that (a) swamps reclaimed to "low cost" standards can sustain agri-
cultural production, but the quality of the program can be improved by better
preparation, better prequalification of contractors, and better construction
supervision; (b) greater efforts are necessary to sponsor community action by
settlers in land development and pest control; (c) drinking water supply
should be improved; and (d) agricultural support and research should be
provided. Continued Bank support for GOI's swamp reclamation program through
the Second Swamp Reclamation Project (SSRP) is designed to address this and to
develop cost effective implementation procedures.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The project would assist GOI's swamp reclamation program by better
quality control, by improving planning and site selection for new development,
by improved drinking water provisions, and by planning and implementing
upgrading of older schemes. The project has been prepared on the basis of a
Master Plan (1977/78), feasibility studies (1981), and detailed designs
(1983), completed by the Project Unit for Tidal Swamp Reclamation (P3S) of the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development, Ministry of Public Works,
and consultants (NEDECO, the Bogor Agricultural University and the Bandung
Institute of Technology) with Bank assistance (the Seventh and Twelfth
Irrigation Projects; Loans 1268-IND and 1645-IND, respectively). The project
was appraised in April 1983, and a Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4645-IND) is
being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in Jakarta from March 19
to March 23, 1984; the GOI delegation was led by Mr. Soebandi Wirosoemarto,
Assistant to the Minister of Public Works for Irrigation and Swamp
Reclamation. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.



- 12 -
Project Description
33.       The major objective of the project is to support GOI's Swamp
Reclamation and Settlement Program which will expand considerably during the
1984-89 Plan period. The project's main thrust would be to improve the
quality and efficiency of the program without increasing its costs. The
project would have two principal components: (a) a six-year time slice of an
eight-year implementation program for reclamation and development of about
30,000 ha in South Sumatra, and settlement of about 11,500 families, and (b)
institutional support to the Ministry of Public Works (Directorate of Swamps
and Provincial Branch offices), the Ministry of Transmigration (DGSP, DGMG and
PLP) and the Ministry of Agriculture (DGFCA and AARD) in implementation and
related activities.
Detailed Features
A. Reclamation and Settlement
34.       Project works would involve construction of drainage infrastructure,
land clearing and settlement of transmigrants, including construction of
houses and village facilities. The six-year time slice would cover all main
civil works and settlement, about 60% of tertiary structures, about 67% of
clearing of farm plots and about 40% of paddy-field bunds. The remaining
works, estimated to cost US$12.3 million in 1984 prices, would be completed by
GOI by 1991. About 7,500 ha of houselots and village areas would be cleared
(providing 0.5 ha per family) and about 7,600 ha of farm plots would also be
prepared, possibly with settler participation as paid laborers. Approximately
11,500 houses would be constructed and adequate containers would be provided
to collect rainwater for drinking. Thirty village centers and two secondary
village centers would be constructed and about 9,800 families from Java and
Bali and about 1,700 local families, who would apply to do so, would be
settled in the project area. Settlers would be provided with an 18-month
supply of food and other essential commodities, such as seeds and planting
materials, agrochemicals and farm tools.
B. Institutional Support
35.       Technical Assistance.  The responsible units in the Ministries of
Transmigration, Public Works and Agriculture would be provided with technical
assistance and staff training in: construction supervision; implementation
management and coordination techniques; preparation of new projects and
upgrading of older schemes; operation and maintenance; intensified on-farm
developments; agricultural research and development; and monitoring and
evaluation of the environmental and socio-economic impact of regional swamp
developments. Three Rural Extension Centers will be established in the
project area as focal points for agricultural extension activities to be
provided by DGFCA. Facilities and equipment would be provided for two plant
protection brigades, one in South Kalimantan and one in South Sumatra, where
GOI's swamp reclamation efforts are concentrated. These brigades would
provide equipment and supplies to support settlers to combat crop pest and
disease outbreaks which they are unable to control on their own. These units
would assist in community campaigns against rats, wild boars and insect



- 13 -
pests. Pest observers, attached to the Rural Extension Centers, would be
responsible for monitoring and early warning of pests and diseases, assessing
crop damage, providing technical recommendations and guidance to mid-level
agricultural extension workers and village level extension workers and
alerting pest brigades on timing of required action.
36.       Agricultural Research.  In addition to the technical assistance
listed above, the project would provide equipment and materials for a three-
year time slice of AARD's applied research program in farming systems, plant
protection, water and soil management, plant nutrition and aquaculture at an
existing research center at Banjarmasin, South Kalimantan and at three test
farms in Central and South Kalimantan and South Sumatra. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the research program would continue beyond the
three year period included in the project (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
37.       Studies and Design Work.  Schemes for upgrading of selected older
developments would be designed during the project and about 5,000 ha of such
schemes would be developed to standards and costs satisfactory to the Bank
(Schedule 2, Part B, para. 4 of the draft Loan Agreement). Existing
investigation for potable water supply would be continued and expanded
(including about ten test borings) in the project area. Other studies would
include master plans for reclamation of coastal lands in the province of Irian
Jaya, feasibility studies and detailed design for upgrading the hydraulic
infrastructure of about 35,000 ha of older swamp reclamation schemes and
expansion of environmental import studies of swamp development in South
Sumatra and South Kalimantan. Viable treatment and storage methods of surface
water and alternative dry season sources would be investigated.
38.       Operation and Maintenance.  Technical assistance and eight exca-
vating machines (draglines) would also be provided to PPW for training and
maintenance operation in the project area, in the area of the FSRP, and in two
or more neighboring reclamation projects.
Organization and Management
39.       The Ministry of Transmigration (MOT) would have overall responsi-
bility for coordination of implementation. DOS and P3S would be responsible
for infrastructure works, for master plan studies, and for planning and
designing the upgrading of older schemes. MOT's Directorate for Land
Preparation for Transmigration (PLP) would be responsible for land clearing,
housing, village facilities, transport and settlement. The Directorate
General of Agrarian Affairs (Ministry of Home Affairs) would be responsible
for cadastral surveys and land registration while MOT's Directorate General of
Guidance, with the participation of the Ministry of Cooperatives and social
service ministries, would provide administrative and financial support for
transmigrants for 18 months and offer additional administrative support for
about five years following settlement. DGFCA would be responsible for
agricultural development and AARD for agricultural research (Section 3.09 of
the draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
40.       Implementation Support and Back-Up.  Field operations would be
coordinated by a resident MOT project manager who would be backed up by MOT's
regional and central coordinators. Assurances were obtained at negotiation's
that MOT would have a full-time, resident project manager with appropriate
qualifications and experience on site by July 1, 1985 (Section 3.08 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Construction contracts would be managed by partici-
pating line agencies through site managers, supported by the respective
provincial and headquarters offices, assisted by consultants. MOT's central
coordinator would routinely receive progress reports from the field and
intervene with line agencies to synchronize work. He would also liaise with
the Bank on project implementation and submit to the Bank quarterly, semi-
annual, and annual consolidated progress reports. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that GOI would construct project works, carry out settlement
activities and complete the balance of remaining works, not financed under the
project, in a timely and efficient manner, in accordance with an agreed imple-
mentation schedule (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government
would also cause all infrastructure and public facilities constructed under
the project to be operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate
engineering and financial practices, and make available by August 15 of each
year, beginning in August 1987, the annual funds required in each fiscal year
for the maintenance of such facilities (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
41.       Community Development.  MOT staff would coordinate and promote
community development including: (a) registration and settlement of new
arrivals; (b) dissemination of economic and social information to settlers;
(c) group activities in land development, crop husbandry and O&M; (d) record
keeping; and (e) preparation for the transfer of settled communities to the
provincial administration.
42.       Land Rights.  MOT, in cooperation with the Directorate General of
Agraria (DGA), would provide each family wth a 'right of use" title (hak
pakai) to their houselot, extended houselot and farmplot within one year of
arrival; and provide land ownership titles (hak milik) for the entire holding,
provided it is farmed, within five years of arrival (Schedule 2, Part A,
paragraph 2(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). In accordance with existing
regulations, transmigrants would be prohibited from transferring or selling
land until after ten years of occupancy.
43.       Health.  Health services would provide anti-malaria protection to
new settlers and others living in the area; establish basic health infra-
structure; and ensure utilization of services. Health care facilities would
be provided at clinics and subcenters (Schedule 2, Part A, paragraph 2(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Health services would focus on immunization,
nutrition, health education, family planning and environmental sanitation.
Construction of a clinic at each of the project's two secondary village
centers would be in accordance with INPRES standards. Each clinic would be
provided with three speedboats. In each village center, the project would
establish a subhealth center. Malaria control campaigns would be conducted
including spraying of houses, the detection of passive cases and treatment.



- 15 -
44.       Education.  The project would include construction of primary
schools (grades 1 to 6) in each village, and a lower secondary school (SMP,
grades 7 to 9) in each secondary village center (Schedule 2, Part A, paragraph
2(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.       Agricultural Extension.  Two middle-level extension workers (PPMs)
and about ten field extension workers (PPLs) would be appointed to each of the
three Rural Extension Centers to provide extension services focusing on selec-
tion of varieties, cultural practices and pest control. Three subject matter
specialists (PPSs) in rice agronomy, soil and water management and plant pro-
tection, stationed in the region, would provide in-service training and
technical guidance to the PPM/PPLs. PPS and field extension staff would
cooperate with AARD research officers in planning and supervising extension
trials on farmers' fields.
46.       Farm Supplies.  MOT would be responsible for supplying settlers at
places of origin with planting materials and pesticides for first season
planting of the houselots and part of the farm plots, with additional supplies
of seeds and pesticides at settlement sites for the second year. DGFCA would
assist in procuring paddy seed of suitable local varieties until land develop-
ment had advanced sufficiently to introduce high yielding varieties and a crop
intensification program. DGFCA would extend the crop intensification program
to reclaimed swamps (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). Improved
paddy varieties would be supplied initially from DGFCA's seed farm at Upang;
at a later stage (from about year 5 or 6 after settlement) DGFCA would
supervise the production of seed by selected farmers participating in the crop
intensification program. Other farm supplies such as fertilizers, pesticides,
tools and spare parts for sprayers, etc., would be available from Ministry of
Cooperatives (MOC) depots. MOT, in cooperation with DGFCA and MOC, would
cause depots and kiosks to be established in the project area by December 31,
1986, with adequate farm supplies, pesticides, fertilizers, tools and
equipment spare parts for sale to settlers (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The MOT site manager would monitor demands in individual
villages, advise Ministry of Cooperatives staff who, in consultation with
DGFCA project staff, would order necessary supplies.
47.       Pest Control.  DGFCA would establish the two plant protection
brigades (paragraph 35 above) for pest control in coastal swamp areas of South
Sumatra and South Kalimantan and assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations (Schedule 2, Part A, paragraph 3 of the draft Loan
Agreement).  These brigades would operate under DGFCA's regional crop
protection centers at Palembang and Banjarmasin.
Cost Estimates
48.       Total project costs are estimated at $108.5 million (including a
front-end fee of about $0.2 million and taxes on civil works of about $1.3
million), of which about $42.5 million (or 39%) would be foreign exchange.
Project costs are expressed in end-1983 prices. Unit prices for civil works
are based on contracted costs of the FSRP and on those of other GOI projects
in the area. Land clearing costs are based on GOI's recent contracts,
adjusted for the project area's medium to dense forest cover. Quantities of



- 16 -
primary and secondary canal systems have been derived from detailed plans, and
those of tertiaries have been derived from average ground level surveys.
Costs of houses, community facilities, transport and support to transmigrants
are all based on current GOI standards and budgets. Costs of agricultural
research and support are based on recent AARD and DGFCA data. A 15% allowance
has been included for physical contingencies except land clearing for which an
allowance of 30% has been included. Local price contingencies are 12% in
1984, 10% in 1985-1987, 9% in 1988, 7% in 1989 and 6% thereafter. Foreign
price contingencies are 3% during 1984, 7.5% during 1985, 9% in 1986-1988,
7%in 1989 and 6% thereafter. The proposed Bank loan of $65.0 million would
finance foreign exchange costs of about $42.5 million and $22.5 million of
local costs and would amount to about 60% of total project costs exclusive of
taxes. The remaining Rp 43.5 billion ($43.5 million) and an estimated
Rp 12.3 billion ($12.3 million) required to complete all works beyond the six-
year time slice would be provided in GOI's annual budgets.
Procurement
49.       Construction of primary and secondary canals and structures would be
grouped in two scheduleg (one would include construction of the base camp) of
about $7.5 million each-l tendered under International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Other civil works would
be highly labor intensive, and not attractive for international bidders.
These works would be grouped in appropriate packages (ranging between $0.8-1.5
million) and tendered in accordance with Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank including: (a) clearing of houselots,
extended houselots and villages under no more than three contracts; (b) con-
struction of houses and village facilities under no more than twelve con-
tracts; and (c) clearing of farmplots and construction of tertiaries under no
more than five and six contracts respectively. Construction of field bunds
would be by settlers under a DGFCA-sponsored rice-land formation program.
Equipment to be procured through ICB (totalling about $1.6 million, or 30% of
equipment acquisitions) would include draglines and workshop equipment. The
remaining equipment would include about $2.6 million of laboratory and field
equipment, which would be procured through LCB, and about $0.8 million of
spares and specific laboratory and surveying equipment, which would be
procured in accordance with GOI procurement procedures (after obtaining three
quotations).
50.       Review of Procurement.  Procurement is internally controlled by the
secretariat of each ministry and for contracts larger than $500,000, clearance
must be obtained from Team 10 of SEKNEG - the State Secretariat Procurement
Control Unit. The Bank supervises contracts through the Bank's RSI (Resident
Staff, Indonesia) which works closely with these agencies on procurement
matters. The Bank would review prior to tendering all contracts in excess of
$1 million including all ICB contracts, larger LCB contracts (about 50% of all
civil works) and consultant contracts. Smaller contracts would be tendered
using GOI's procurement procedures and controls. Equipment contracts in
6/   End-1983 baseline costs and price contingencies.



- 17 -
excess of $200,000, would be reviewed by the Bank prior to bidding' and
award. Other contracts would be reviewed by the Bank after award on a sample
basis.
Disbursements
51.       Disbursement would be made as follows:  (a) for major civil works
(primary and secondary canals and structures) - 100% of total expenditures;
(b) for all other civil works, including housing and villages - 60% of total
expenditures; (c) for imported equipment and materials 100% of foreign expen-
ditures; (d) for imported equipment and materials procured locally - 60% of
total expenditures; (e) for locally manufactured goods - 95% of local expen-
ditures (ex-factory cost); (f) for consultant services - 100% of total expen-
ditures; (g) for water well drilling and testing - 100% of total expenditures;
and (h) for training - 100% of total expenditures (Schedule 1, paragraph 1 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursement would be made on the basis of
contract payments but construction of hamlet drains, paddy-field bunds and
training, would be disbursed based on statements of expenditure.
Accounts and Audits
52.       All implementing agencies and directorates participating in the
project would maintain separate records and accounts related to the project.
All accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, and audited reports and copies of statements of expenditure would be
sent not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year to the Bank
and to MOT's coordinator of Bank-assisted transmigration projects, who would
send to the Bank a summary of the audited reports, together with the auditor's
comments and opinions, within ten months of the close of each fiscal year
(Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Environmental and Socio-Economic Impact Evaluation
53.       Continued improvement of swamp development requires systematic
monitoring and evaluation of physical and socio-economic conditions in older
as well as more recent developments, and this would be included under the
project. While focussing on critical and readily assessable features such as
soil conditions (peat subsidence, pH), water quality, cropping and yields in
the development areas, attention would also be given to environmental changes
in water quality and fishlife in the vicinity. For this purpose the
monitoring and evaluation program would include soil, water, agricultural and
socio-economic developments related to the SSRP and three GOI schemes (to be
selected), as well as the impact of regional swamp developments on the quality
of the Calik, Lalang, Barito and Kapuas rivers, their fauna and flora. The
program, to be coordinated by MOT, would be carried out by appropriate line
agencies, and assisted by consultants. MOT would be responsible for preparing
annual summary evaluations which would be assessed by GOI and the Bank for
corrective measures (to protect soils and environment), for feedback in
planning new developments, and for improving subsequent monitoring and evalu-
ation operations. MOT would carry out these tasks starting with a benchmark
report which would be furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1986 and followed
up with annual evaluations, beginning May 1, 1988; furthermore, MOT would



- 18 -
cause the relevant agencies to take remedial action to protect affected soils
and environment and would take steps to provide feedback for planning and
future monitoring and evaluation (Section 3.09(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
54.       Reclamation and settlement of 30,000 ha would increase food crop
production, enhance employment and income opportunities, help reduce rural
poverty in Java/Bali, contribute to regional development in South Sumatra, and
reduce foreign exchange expenditure for rice imports. At full development,
about 58,000 tons of paddy and about 5,000 tons of corn would be produced
annually, which would save GOI foreign exchange of about $14 million each year
in reduced rice imports. About 11,500 families or 58,000 people would benefit
directly, while about 1,500 families would benefit indirectly through
associated services such as transportation, marketing and processing. Civil
works would generate some 10 million man-days of construction labor, and the
project would create a demand of about 5.8 million man-days of farm labor each
year, equivalent to about 18,000 additional full time jobs. All project
beneficiaries would be either rural or urban poor who are underemployed or
engaged in marginally productive activities in their areas of origin, mostly
in Java and Bali. Their transmigration to South Sumatra would contribute to
reducing pressure on land in overpopulated areas of origin. Annual settlers
incomes at full development would be expected to reach about $1,575 per family
($315 per capita) by 2005 compared to a projected income of about $535 per
family ($107 per capita) at their places of origin. Investment costs per
family and per ha to achieve these benefits would be about $6,100 and $2,700,
respectively (at 1983 prices), which is in line with GOI's expenditure in
other swamp reclamation and transmigration projects focussing on food crops.
Cost Recovery
55.       The cost recovery index of the project, which is the ratio of the
present value of incremental direct government revenue (IPEDA-  and other
contributions) to the present value of incremental financial costs of the
project, would be about 7%. Financial costs in this calculation include all
expenditures for infrastructure, land development, settlement and support,
administration, and physical contingencies. Costs of nonproject-specific
items, such as institutional support to GOI's overall program are excluded.
The rent recovery index, which is the ratio of the present value of incre-
mental direct government revenues to the present value of net financial
project benefits (rent), is estimated at 8%. These rates are in line.
withrates in similar recent projects (FSRP and Transmigration II, Loans 1458-
IND and 1707-IND, respectively).  GOI does not contemplate the recovery of
capital costs of basic infrastructure such as drainage and land clearing in
transmigration projects, given low projected incomes, and personal hardships
and risks experienced by settlers.
/7   A land tax estimated at Rp 10,000/ha ($10/ha) or Rp 22,500 ($22.50) per
settler farm per year at full development.



- 19 -
Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis
56.       The economic rve of return (ERR) of the development of 30,000 ha is
12.5%. Crossover values- for a 10% discount rate calculated for a number of
variables crucial to the success of the project show that the project can
stand a reasonable degree of cost overruns and benefit reduction. An increase
of total investment cost by 34% would be required to reduce the ERR to 10%,
and the project would remain economically viable even if rice yields should
decline (as a result of poor soil, water management and poor crop husbandry)
from the target 2.5 tons/ha to about 1.7 tons/ha. A 33% reduction in benefits
from paddy, or a 25% reduction in total benefits, would render the project
marginal. Similarly, an extension of implementation for the entire develop-
ment (including all on-farm works) from 8 to 12 years due to delays in years
3, 4 and 5 would reduce the ERR to 10%. A 10% decrease in costs or an equal
increase in benefits would raise the ERR to about 13.4%.
Risks
57.       The main risks associated with the 30,000 ha swamp reclamation and
development scheme are slow start up, slow implementation and delayed
agricultural development. The following steps have been taken to reduce these
and other risks: (a) technical assistance would be provided to strengthen the
capability of implementing agencies; (b) farm plots, which are split in other
schemes, would consist of a single plot per family to facilitate faster land
development and cultivation; (c) pest control would be improved, thereby
increasing incentives to land development and crop intensification; (d)
environmental risks (particularly increasing soil acidity) would be reduced by
excluding unsuitable soils, by providing paddy-field bunds, by monitoring soil
acidity and by designing small water control structures which can be quickly
installed, where needed, to prevent acidification, and (e) risks of sea water
intrusion would be reduced by providing for control structures.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
/8   The crossover value is the value of the variable tested for which the
project's net present value calculated at 10% discount rate is zero, or
equivalently the value beyond which the ERR would be below 10%, the
critical level for economic viability of the project.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 8, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 21-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESU                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNEET
INDONESIA                              REFERENCE QGOUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (M3ST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
196G0t      1970-b  ESTIMATE-Ib        ASIA & PACIFIC       LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
ARIA (TX3AND SQ. IK)
TOTAL                               1919.3      1919.3      1919.3
AGRICULTURAL                         266.0       307.1       317.3
GNP EMR CAPITA (US$)                     90.0       150.0       530.0              1028.6                    2088.2
RNICY COISUNION 0PE  CAPITA
(RILOGRAM4S OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      129.0       143.0       266.0               792.8                    1407.6
rOnrLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  94680.0    116201.0    149451.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         14.6        17.1        20.6                32.9                      65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (YILL)                             215.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                               399.5
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                               2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         49.3        60.5        76.2               260.7                      35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND             355.9       378.4       461.2              1696.5                      93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUjCTURE (1)
0-14 YRS                           40.7        44.0        39.8                39.4                      40.1
15-64 YRS                           56.2        53.4        57.1                57.2                      55.8
65 AND ABOVE                         3.1         2.5         3.1                 3.3                       4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                2.1         2.0          2.3                2.3                       2.3
URBAN                                3.7         3.6         4.0                 3.9                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          45.8        40.7        34.6                31.3                      31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          22.5        17.2        13.1                 9.6                       8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8         2.7         2.2                 2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..       181.1      3051.0
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..         0.2        36.0                46.6
FOOD AD NTRITIOB
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                        93.0        102.0       122.0               125.2                     113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (T OF REQUIREMENTS)        86.0        94.0       110.0               114.2                     111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           38.0         42.0        49.0                57.9                      67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           6.0         6.0         7.0/c              14.1                      34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          22.9         16.9        13.7                 7.6                       5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         41.2        47.3         53.5               60.2                      64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       149.9        120.9       105.0                68.1                      62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                 ..         3.0        23.0                37.1                      64.8
URBAN                                 ..        10.0        41.0                54.8                      77.8
RURAL                                            1.0        18.0                26.4                      44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(1 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        15.0        23.0                41.4                      54.6
URBAN                                 *         19.0        20.0                47.5                      69.8
RURAL                                 ..        14.0        24.0                33.4                      29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          46780.0      26510.0     11530.0              7771.9                    1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             4510.0/f    7680.0      2300.0              2462.6                    1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1360.0      1650.0      1610.0/d            1047.2                     477.0
URBAN                             250.0           ..       700.07              651.1                     667.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..      3160.07             2591.9                    1921.6
ADIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..        22.4/e              27.0                      27.2
Noorn
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLO
TOTAL                                4.4         4.8
URBAN                                4.9         5.3
RURAL                                4.3         4.7           ..                 .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..         1.5
URBAN                                 ..         1.6
RURAL                                 ..         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (7 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
----  - - - -------------------- ---____      -  -   - -__-          -  -  -----_ -_ -_  -  ___________________________- _



- 22-                                                     ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
HOST                        (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT  l          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960'-      1970b  ESTIMATE-b           ASIA & PACIFIC        LAT. AKERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     71.0         77.0         98.0               101.2                      105.0
MALE                     86.0         83.0        104.0               106.0                      106.3
FEMALE                   58.0         71.0         91.0                97.5                      103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      6.0         15.0         28.0                44.9                       40.0
MALE                     10.0         20.0         33.0                50.0                       38.6
FEMALE                    3.0         10.0         22.0                44.6                       41.2
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)            20.4         22.1         15.5                18.5                       34.0
PUPIL-TEACLiER RATIO
PRIMARY                              39.0         29.0         34.0                32.7                       30.7
SECONDARY                            14.0         13.0         16.0                23.4                       16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                39.0         56.6         62.0/g              72.9                       79.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             1.1          2.1          3                   9.7                       45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            7.2         21.9         42.4               113.7                      228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSASD POP               0.1          0.8          9.6                50.1                      108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               11.0           ..         17.7/d              54.0                       64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         2.8           ..          0.8/c               3.4                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           34791.0      41090.0      53604.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     27.8         30.9         29.2                33.6                       24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                75.0         66.0         55.0                50.9                       31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    8.0         10.0         15.0                19.2                       23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.7         35.4         35.9                38.6                       31.3
bMALE                                54.2         49.5         51.1                50.7                       49.8
FEMALE                               20.0         21.6         20.8                26.6                       14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.3          1.2                 1.1                        1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5X OF iiOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..         23.5/d              22.2
RIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..         49.47W              48.0
LOWEST 204 OF HiOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..          6.6/d               6.4
LOWEST 40X OF IOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..         14.47W              15.5
POVERTY TARGET GaOUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY I;NCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        136.0/g             194.5                      289.8
RURAL                                  ..           1. 112.Og                    155.0                      184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        119.018             178.0                      519.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..         98.07j             164.8                      372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         28.0/g              24.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..         51.0jj              41.1
NOT AVAILABLZ
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmeitc means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; /S 1978.
May 1983



- 23 -                                                                   ANNEX I
itIIKL   OFOCiAL _ fNpISATtfld                                           Page   3   of   5 pages
ctee,  Alh.ccuh the dctc ore dr'lt ira  scace  gocuuik  (cd.4  the cci  ccceoce                    d reliable, *  i chucd .1cc he cItd chec ty -c   c   etccctcul
ceupetehc icccac  ci the  anit ciscacdaedcnd deiciticce ad cocccta  cued 'by d%tdfc""`t  -toictic  to lete   tree dccc   The dccct at  neabltn         iL tO
decrb   ccrccieaaIt-., cditute. crt            dfc4 iecct Lc  terat  ouJor diffo-ec-         eccrtecote
Th 8eircc   rcp   -r  ii) the cuec ccc -rydt  ci rho ochjert, cecty acd (2) * rotcr  group etch  -cocha  higher... .IeFe tr ts.  eo. rie  outry group ofro
ur Foc lcccc  (e-Ir' Ic  "Mhee  I,ce-" ti1 tccrr" ocu_ tbro"rI            l  Soe  er          i-ic  ce  ciddic tur"c  cre L       erocbyo recrongo  e-lctutrurai
crecti bet dcc .  then indiat..    Since.l I... I        .ectrg  ..c. e  ieuuc  h   ,ctgcedeed  nct   nlitlc    cdn   e .c  .uttte..ea tor cost be,
ecrcclec  itcolelaccorcceccc cn Si_crrrcce.            .Tuceocetc    ldceu   cceeic   h   oec   r. codcaro  Jcecte   s-te   h.t cocutre ced
aria lncoc    q..                                                                                     cacitre          tecc!Pptro    I'ddd  b'y rIaber cipocrtil
- cocc  ecic   cc   eylea   ad uroc ctu  dl-d o-cer; tOdd,                                       phIrdcqcttder      elc   cata   rto.t   ee.
195AnddBtdc..rlcicechrucPre    Pu.lncc  ltidodlhb chcofpcccc
dcc Ptc SrITc4j ~    F.- -di pe   capca  eceacra  'carat ceict1 pInce.                          cath. cc  ohi_ cr  pet,ote gerra  acd epe-i,.    heeitt.o
19hI.  0970  ..ur  ccci J-.                                                                         hy ccScet     r L!  yticc.   e-abLcie.co-   preidtog  petcctpIly nartcdtli
0800Cc CdSllSPION FERr CAFio  -ctucIpcaccapic  ci oceerico                                            e.tiwcl  -oit-LcpteecTe Icarrd rep c Phrt.tun (ho  by atddu
cttrarPcertp  dccc  ,rdE        ~tgtc, cocrI-a   nuccut cue cr4 hydrc-.  -uotea                    a..e.ot,  irc, etdcle.         etif   bo  cire  le-c,      c  ar dctor cr
a                     Inbi~~~~96. l9Ps, ccc l9ts dccc.                                                                     urAbecIorca   ttnladc code.d   trcct pu/0eor        cpccc.l.  co .cra
PONLAtION A~~~~~ ILTAI. STATIS~~~~~~Icsheotcci,  loa   t  ua  eroicatscd  ctnci"   co  mceeclycocot
M-ii toclcac  ii-su  dnieadc  -                     ciicy 1; 1905, 1970, atedd                    adccecc   er ac..tr-I bed - Mccl rather ciaf           etoet         dicce.r.ee
dctc.                                                                     inc.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f   heepinaic dt~ided hy rho richer cr beds.
eer   cacic;lS,9)0, end cOIdrt9tect   1c i1ucicd  drerere  er  caucc14                                                                               - ccc-   -b.ato,cr 
P.-!.cto   inyaPOl     crr    pcpcltcc  Frcicccc  IIc hcd c-  9t0                                 uct  rhrcciccuie.  A baadr  cld ger IM             o  oy-utbe  urtudtd Lc
cItespcyclt.S- by Cgr cod      AL c    tsr          dlntcd  -tircilc                        the b    b.cr Id foecclcimip-trs-
-i     -t- opccrr  ic1      rrliyrt u-lci 1     bear       bd trtrc  Irenle                  noonupie  purld..-
ccclcln  c   cebcyuiit 117ted  ic..                    irciocic   pirpcef -i cinalb*oco..  ccL ..a.  d'eluI.lrcecnctip
a-rna pecrccIct".          LAt ccelatr   ryere   ecnyarctnc
dealca  it  ir cepiaa-_o   c-eel at -it -nt Ic...cdcrio   at.  hr                               retvnh1          ciaTsi  odd Cerl    G- to .rt..  ced  acd.  CeAde-
tct-c  ft tIe iciu icc        Lhe yea  2000  co   h. room cIf deciirn                             ... ect  bir adiccid fcr dirferse   L.tettt   uf prlecry Idd.n.d i_; Cot
fec-lip't  raIr ccrp\c -cinr.                                                                     cc_nrrLe  Itah  crncleducar..oe.r.tie-trneyccrerd  lii pecac
crap oraticary luccicict to reecbed - 01ccTr-   whnaei lcy                               ..cc.eI_- rrtl  ere beige cc chre FKc. oti.tnl cnhmi eg.
rarciotict tict cii ho reccird.                                    iicedary cihon  -tatti. male and feoule - Ccoptoductcc e.a..               r
cci  ic;1960, 1970, eod 1980 0acc.                                                          pipito ceulla of 12 cu i7 y..cc urunt         rttuccctcc    c
Pe  a.n.cciulca  lard - Uc..,ncd  cab.ve Ccc a                   I-ciccbd                   cer-LLc ecniaded.
coc; LIOt, 1970 ttd 181  dcOo.                                                               coIci~   tuieciocr   ccreoc      cutottecate
,"ztreeiilc cc  Oitr  (peor   - Chilcdcc  0-.14 Y-ere, eorkni-c-te ii                                cld   ehtcl   eaccc,u   ce   rcrc   tihcrcc   iee
hIyerId t   -e  cd   Syur edd.a  .    cc                      Ifccrae   c id-ceu                  -lly or at dep.tcarcerr  ri ccrer.       iencuicy
acy,a-icad  d960,  1975, ud 1881 duc.                                                           Prle hrrci-rerI.                 acdeacae  -P Iu tradute  rr dO
Poco ict  tcrl   .t.z Icecntoc  - _ctnl - cia-   c10     uc  ci rc-1 end-                    pFdeaycnecccM              cocaceddb  rsoec  ceebo   do  heor
ccicr.loit  c  (955-hO, lOb)-)),  Ard 1970-r1.                                           ceapn.tdglero
iciciucccc ir-ch hate I,!, ..ncl - ccit- - cco-c  drcec  rteh           fra                        Mc. 'iiitio tore  rerce' t)   StctruteQ  udi1ts debt. ccred and ertc) c
Fcilrlc   icc 1950-6, 1960-7, co -4           -197-l                                              A  -e-ooo  c   cricdl  ru            ce  co  I5 peer  andoer
Sccda Mccttc(e   coccl-  accl LIae bdroc  ret cchccud ci  id-
yer  icicct   06.til  cd1981 dcc.                                                    ziBSioittoc
Srcdr Oceti rice Sot ic.oi    - Accocc  deutb                     Ff icur   cced-perPcecrSoedc-c.cer   eealt    P.....rgcrcarsccopoteuoncn
arlno;1987, 1970, atd l98d  dacu.                                                          care eclc   cocanlc   eeo;r-ac   obaucc   c                                n
he_nreirercc      -ce   occ  Or t.eI cociee   ron    c-ycicmc   cecr    e   bcudirtrUri) - dot cy    If roci                                                       -e  c  wdio
CcrcltLIy  -c... -c.oly Cd-o-ct  -crca-  -adccg uclts 1560         25, ocd                        .r.d..n .Sc ecere  meHld   e   hicc   cppuotc   ccae 
1981,                                                                                             lincreedArecetacre in wcucccrte_   ad  c  pecr  cAtr  etn..r....    rdr
retina ptnl-cc  U-scc    ccma ci  -atrlr  c-rn              P          ftrc   ci cried              .rn.ra.IcrEl  pe Iccinu     cocirit; nnSndnoitreeccd Th re..ete-
cctcclidI.ot gcc    :I5-cc             ~.no cac    _ccc__-crLdccnc_rtw                        _ccactrae   Tc               _ h-dfn Itilbtcoctrrtei  acr    cuic      o.-
wicl5carw    fctOc   cclcc. rccrc    oldcce   c                                                cc  'daub I ditt upp-ocnlclia   te      e.
cclrcuc  ieoud  i tgur  olcataoediicandcinrinccrteto  r.d                         nctac eid  crni  tr  eariSalaioIaduaccoccL                   dtreiocdctaarn
bandc u.       wu.ccd   paSr   cc   ectc  1961-b5. 1979. ccc LO8i
docc.,  -lpl~.LAcOR FsORC
dcY.  ct-ilab1c .cpp1dc  ap-     c  ac-cin  rcd-nccc., iccc   ocPcplaitc rf cItL a..  f  leCoitic   10.i  cLru   arutricc aPe cc
erpccc,  -c dcccmcl.    c   ctcecoldcl- cd,moo                                                     iptbte; cotS. 1970 cod 108  deta.
qicic .n nd ic Cccdl prcccItg  ard noote   dit  choccc                                            I        t~1rcc) - Pecale labar Lac   e  elcc0   ilnu   tc  force.
tocciptornunccocclnaecdby Plc  aced orpbyelctcgtr-t o-cdc  Ccr tIllud                                         - Cabot Lbrte tr Cucel. i....cti, harnin  mc
iclicedacc.ccldrn    crneoo ccPctt* bcdy cetghcn.                                              itht   epierg                -1tco  Irhic  tcrce  l9cs  1000 co  1 oct dcci.
doe io  -c  ditnsibccccc oC pp.icctic, cr4 al1c-icg  10 Iccnt  cr  emi fcac  ra pcccoc                                     b- ui  fcrce Lc odic.LS  cc..ncc. rc  -cu -ciing
an brchbid lo-; 196I-h5. 1970 cod 1980 dacc.                                                       cr.ienlcc,  eerc .d gc cm o.ltccect  ot tc-1 lobcr ictr; iota.
tnircoc    cc.1acciecirbleu   i   9h  radeirnatc                                                      I'ltlnI' Puree  I.r.nsne   cocl  cr,edCd    eo    i
alccro    i  5aro   (  ca..ccn   e  d1cA r P'id grtftuieledlrctoe   dtuU    u    r iceuAltF.     edic                                               _r i. ctiag., tr- tes
paler pFF l,  ceIcc ...rcech        ub.c.    Tc cc     rcor   'Pce100. lOi0, arc 1901 det.    Tee".r  bed on ti'   ctrtelccc
Third irrlc Pond ccrceyc 191I, c9 -ad1085 d-cna       b   AOi~t.                        inncec .trprdtac . ati f - _totac   ecalo   ed_I   odh                      erc
deicd   _m ilecuc co  orlee  itdi                   19prdt;itb-ib. 1970 cci 1077
aVilcd ci.-4) coac  tarI ar-th--ccad) -   -ccc  dr-tbhpr  hoeo   . FecucaeLI                                      rout-t  Irci. dbrct   oeIe aa  -tru                    y  tabemtc1
ccc  acipI-c  cace   cchcildrrn  le cite  g. gr..aP; flc rocdrlatgpreo.ccec   0rree,roet toprec*cc   trn   llprnro
ccctrcoac   deI      e   icSiccSn;.h.97C cod 1981 d.tt.                                           beaocln
1.in bIn.   IOnt, 197tic 1981 date.-d                                                            Ecrictd  Abeocrardcirooireretc.
coo   ci .c pIa chclear d liae bdrchel 19h0, 195 cci 198i acer.                                bonolcet  p:cOEry Ireo  tn   cc1.   nec ct re  Icdhlm ceIcceerneuS
chccf  arS    occ,ahe,ed  ac)ccircenbrnac   o  urei-dhr
n_ure..coFly          tnl.tca  d  ..co   cttce otter. it atroeted hue                           tmttmatdtetnerentIoe   bee   7$pe   au     -chrad  .-pel
ecrintyccie) c  prcrcncgc cIirectte,- oc--  arelotcc.IF, cc                            peeectne   cthcrany    drhc cm-c  Lc drilInd  lon   c                   -crI
arnireeca  cclii icniult  i ec-dpaec lacuted -cc    - occe ncu   150 tenc- leel,ec  edj-mnl-   top bighr ice  ci dicing cc ireca..
ira.a bcceocain ccctrar  ciheF 1, cociho  icteenuble Iceoi  trut 1.L                     Ocietdlrecii  cc  Ab.enat Pci,rcc  Mume bed   crctu   aro
-ne daWc  iccte cf     t  itul1 y ococo  aerd.I.ln          1b
bcrctccccc   icncl rerer_ itcchn-r - ccnal...cb. ~Tdip.. 
ptdcteca-dcicil-r                                                                                                                                    M.,ilioe   a   1983



- 24 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                               Annual growth rate (%) /a
current prices)                               Actual                            Estimated projected
Indicator                             1982           1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product lb           90,216         5.0    6.9    8.9    7.7    6.3    9.9    7.9   -0.1    4.5    5.5    4.7
Agriculture                       23,703         0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    3.9    5.2    4.9    1.8    3.0    3.5    2.0
Industry                          34,638         5.6   11.1   14.2    8.7    7.1   12.5    8.5   -6.9    5.6    8.1    5.3
Services                         31,875         10.1    5.9   12.5    9.2    7.7   11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.2    4.8
Corzsumption                        73,377         6.4    7.9    5.6    8.9   13.6   13.1   15.8    3.2    0.5    3.9    3.0
Gross investment                    20,373        14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.7   11.1   13.0   -5.4    4.0    4.0
Exports of GNFS                     20,189        -2.4   17.0    9.5    1.0   -0.1   -5.7   -2.4  -12.0   13.9    6.4    4.8
Imports of GNFS                     23,723        11.7   16.8    4.4   12.7   22.5   16.9   27.1    2.9   -7.4             -   -1.3
Gross national savings              13,877       -16.3   14.2   30.2  -17.5   62.5   33.2  -20.0  -22.6   14.6    9.8    5.0
PRICES
GOP deflator (1973 - 100)                          166    190    214    238    315    407    448    504    585    644    695
Exchange rate                                      415    415    415    442    623    627    632    661    910
Share of GDP at market prices (Z)
(at current prices)                            Average annual increase (%) /a
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product            100    100    100    100    100    100            3.9        8.4        7.4        4.4         4.9
Agriculture                      54     47      32      25     25      23         2.7        4.1        3.3        3.4        3.7
Industry                         14     18      34     43      39      40         5.2       12.0        9.8        3.7        5.2
Services                        32      35      35      32     36      37         4.8        9.7        9.5        5.9        5.5
Consumption                     91      89      79     71      74      73         4.1        8.4        9.2        4.7        4.8
Gross investment                  8     14      20      21     22      22         4.8       18.3       12.2        6.4        5.4
Exports of GNFS                  13     13      23     31      27      26         3.6        9.2        2.9        1.8        4.4
Imports of GNFS                -13    -16    -22    -22    -22    -21             3.2       22.1       14.0        3.3        4.1
Gross national savings            8      9      17      26     22      23         6.1       23.1       14.2        1.5        5.8
As x of GDP
1960               1970                1975                1980                1982
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                 11.7                10.1                17.4               22.5                20.8
CuLrrent expenditures                           14.0                 8.4                 9.9               12.8                13.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                      -2.3                +1.6               +7.5                +9.7                +7.7
Capital expenditure                              n.a.                5.0                11.3                13.0                8.0
Foreign financing                                0.2                 3.5                 3.7                 3.3                0.3
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80          1980-85           1985-90
OThER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                              4.5              7.6               7.1              4.5              5.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                   2.4              5.1               4.7              2.4              2.8
Annual energy consumption growth rate (x)               2.2             11.2              11.0              1.5/d            4.9
ICODR                                                   2.2              2.2               3.3             5.3               4.4
Marginal savings rate                                   0.30             0.48              0.28             0.28/e           0.30/e
Import elasticity                                       1.2              2.8               0.84            0.75              0.84
/a At constant 1973 prices for 1975-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-85.
T- At market prices.
T7 Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7Td 1981-85.
T   Flor the last year of the period.
East Asia and Pacific Region
April 26, 1984



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                               Page 5 of 5 pages
Population    :  152.6 million (mid-1982)
GNP per Capita: US$580 (1982 estimate)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                  Estimated Projected
1977     1978     1979      1980     1981      1982    1983      1984     1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS/a
1.  Exporto                           10,861   11,353   18,510   22,885   22,994   18,637  19,730   21,238   22,698   44,832
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)           7,354    7,374   12,340   .7,297   18,824   14,743  14,560   15,422   15,942   31,028
(b)  Nonoil                        3,507    3,979    6,171    5,587    4,170    3,894   5,170    5,816    6,756   11,804
2.  Imports (including net NFS)      -10,686  -11,493  -13,205  -17,589  -22,572  -22,341 -19,973  -20,669  -21,957  -39,114
(a)  Oil sector                   -2,909   -3,364   -2,940   -4,050   -5,407   -4,802  -4,730   -4,876   -4,801   -1,035
(b)  ionoil imports-              -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,837  -14,561  -15,824 -13,843  -14,384  -15,865  -2d,520
(c)  NFS (net)                      -536     -586   -1,237   -1,702   -2,604   -1,715  -1,400   -1,409   -1,291   -1,559
3.  Resource balance                      175     -140    5,305    5,296       422   -3,703    -243        569      741    6,718
4.  Factor services                     -865   -1,015   -3,106   -3,165   -3,442   -3,705  -4,080   -4,360   -4,823   -8,408
(a)  Interest public debt           -441     -485      -635     -724      -977   -1,161  -1,179   -1,432   -1,664   -2,398
(b)  Other (net)                    -424     -530   -2,471   -2,441   -2,465   -2,544  -2,902   -2,928   -3,159   -6,010
5.  Capital grant.                        66        46       52        76       67       105      95       100      110      150
6.  Balance no current account          -624   -1,109    2,251    2,207   -2,953   -7,303  -4,228   -3,691   -3,972   -2,540
7. Direct foreign invest=ent             285       271      217       140      142       311     234      400       500      800
8.  Public 1 6 LT loans
(a)  Disbur.semnt                  1,956    1,638    1,939    2,864    2,566    4,250   4,991    5,108    5,186    6,120
(b)  Amortization                   -825     0977   -1,335      -987   -1,001   -1,148  -1,541   -1,937   -2,231   -4,234
(c)  Net disbursements             1,131      660       604    1,877    1,565    3,102   3,450    3,171    2,955    1,886
9.  Other capital (net)                 -140       888   -1,382   -1,488       258       540   2,223      -49       638      521
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651       -708   -1,690   -2,736       988    3,350  -1,679        71      -121     -667
11. Net official reserves               2,206    2,916    4,606    7,342    6,354    3,004   4,683    4,612    4,733    5,640
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                      3.4      4.3       5.4      6.5       4.4      2.1      3.7      3.5       3.3      2.3
hM.rotandu  Item
Net f oreign aOsets of the banking
syste::/b                               -         -    6,906   10,787   11,154    6,321   8,355    8,284    8,405    9,312
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                         3.4       4.3      8.1      9.6       7.8      4.3      6.6      6.3       5.9      3.7
ERTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/c
Gross Disbursements                   1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    2,566    4,251
Concessional Loans                      442       484      433       659      792      669
Bilateral                           381       448      399       611      718      587
IDA                                  49       29        30       42        69       78
Other                                12         6        5        6         5        4
Noncoocessional Loans                 1514    1,721    1,432    1,858    1,774    3,582
Official export credits               218       271       61       44       165      485
IB8D                                  191       168      199      331       314      505
Other multilateral                        16       12       46        52       85       126
Private-source                        1,089    1,270    1,126    1,449    1,210    2,466
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disborsed/d  11,658   13,107   13,234   14,882   15,737   18,426
Official-source                   7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400   10,114   11,129
Prlvate-source                    4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,623    7,297
Unodisbursed debt                   4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,354   12,435
Debt Service
Total service payments              1,262   2,06 2    2,100    1,772    1,977    2,308
Interest                            441       514      771      819       977    1,160
Payments as % of exports/e           11.6      18.2     11.3       7.7      8.6      12.4
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(x)                                   6.3       7.6      6.6      8.2       8.6      9.4
Official-source                       5.6       4.6      5.0       5.5      7.9      9.0
Private-source                        8.6      10.2      8.6      12.3      9.2      9.7
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                              20.5      18.8     18.6      18.6     15.2     15.0
Official-so-rce                      23.8      30.1     24.8     24.4      20.8     20.6
Private-source                        9.1       8.7     11.0       9.9     10.6      10.8
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1982
Mlaturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                              40
haturities due within 10 years                                                                            69
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                           5.7
/a On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7W  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7W  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7; At end of period.
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.
East Asia and Pacific Region
April 26, 1984



- 26 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1984) /a
US$ million
Loan/                                                                    Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                   (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                          Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
.Nineteen Loans and thirty-seven Credits fully disbursed 876.0    544.1             -
479   1974   Bali Tourism                                      -       14.6        0.4
1100  1975   Sixth Irrigation                                65.0        -         5.0
1197  1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping              13.0        -         0.9
1237  1976   Fourth Education                                37.0        -         2.6
1268  1976   Seventh Irrigation                              33.0        -         4.6
.1,337  1977   Tanjung Priok Port                            32.0        -         2.3
1365  1977   Sixth Power                                    116.0        -        21.4
1433  1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education                19.0        -         3.5
1434  1977   Eighth Irrigation                               63.0        -        19.7
1.435  1977   Ninth Irrigation                               35.0        -         2.9
1.472  1977   Second Population                              24.5        -         6.0
1.486  1978   Non-Formal Education                           15.0        -         2.2
1499  1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I               65.0        -        18.2
1513  1978   Seventh Power                                   94.0        -        25.8
785  1978   Small Enterprise Development                      -       40.0        7.2
1578  1978   Tenth Irrigation                               140.0        -        86.3
1579  1978   Eleventh Irrigation                             31.0        -         8.6
827  1978   Rural Credit                                      -       30.0        2.1
1604  1978   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders II                65.0        -        40.3
869  1979   Polytechnic                                       -       49.0       18.8
1645  1979   Twelfth Irrigation                              77.0        -        37.9
1653  1979   Third Urban Development                         54.0        -        17.3
398  1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                        -       10.0        7.1
1E691  1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control              50.0        -        26.5
1692  1979   Second Agricultural Training                    42.0        -         9.7
1696  1979   Fifth Highway                                  123.2        -        55.8
1703  1979   Fourth BAPINDO                                  50.0        -         3.4
919  1979   Transmigration II                                 -       67.0        8.3
1.707  1979   Transmigration II                              90.0        -        87.8
1708  1979   Eighth Power                                   175.0        -        51.5
1709  1979   Second Water Supply                             36.0        -        14.7
946  1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                      -       12.0        7.9
1751  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders III               99.0        -        50.2
984  1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                    -       45.0       30.0
Ila   The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 27 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
US$ million.
Loan/                                                                   Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                   (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                          Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
995  1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                              -       45.0       22.8
996  1980   National Agriculture Extension II                 -       42.0       34.6
1811  1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                          116.0        -        72.2
1835  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders IV                42.0        -        33.3
1840  1980   National Agricultural Research                  35.0        -        35.0
1014  1980   National Agricultural Research                    -       30.0       14.1
1869  1980   Third Population                                35.0        -        27.0
1872  1980   Ninth Power                                    253.0        -       122.3
1898  1981   Smallholder Coconut Development                 46.0        -        35.6
1904  1981   University Development                          45.0        -        41.9
1950  1981   Tenth Power                                    250.0        -        87.8
1958  1981   Swamp Reclamation                               22.0        -        15.3
1972  1981   Fourth Urban Development                        43.0        -        32.2
2007  1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V              161.0        -       130.9
2011  1981   Second Small Enterprise Development            106.0        -        13.9
2049  1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                        85.0        -        80.1
2056  1982   Eleventh Power                                 170.0        -       127.0
2066  1982   Second Seeds                                    15.0        -        14.5
2079  1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                     185.0        -       132.5
2083  1982   Rural Roads Development                        100.0        -        76.3
2101  1982   Second Teacher Training                         80.0        -        79.6
2102  1982   Second Textbook                                 25.0        -        25.0
2118  1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                            37.0        -        30.2
2119  1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                          70.0        -        60.8
2120  1982   National Fertilizer Distribution                66.0        -        59.5
2126  1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI                  68.1        -        65.9
2153  1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                    25.0        -        23.3
2199  1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                        5.5        -         4.6
Engineering Project
2214  1983   Twelfth Power                                  300.0        -       286.5
2232  1983   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders VII              154.6        -       152.3
2235  1983   Provincial Health                               27.0        -        26.6
2236  1983   Jakarta Sewerage & Sanitation                   22.4        -        22.2
2248  1983   Transmigration III                             101.0        -        87.8
2258  1983   Public Works Manpower Development               30.0        -        29.8
Project
2275  1983   East Java Water Supply I                        30.6        -        30.5
2277  1983   BAPINDO V                                      208.9        -       195.8
2288  1983   Transmigration IV                               63.5        -        62.6
2290  1983   Second Polytechnic                             107.4        -       107.1



-28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                   Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                   (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                          Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
2300  1983   Thirteenth Power                               279.0        -       277.5
2341  1984   Third Agriculture Training                      63.3        -        63.1
2344  1984   Nucleus Estate & Smallholder Sugar              79.2        -        75.8
2355  1984   Second Non-Formal Education                     43.0        -        42.9
2375  1984   Second Provincial Irrigation /a                 89.0        -        89.0
Total Bank loans and IDA credits            6,204.1    928.7
Of which has been repaid                     -292.7    -11.3
Total now outstanding                       5,911.4    917.4
Amount sold to third party         28.2
Amount repaid by third party    -28.2          -0-
Total now held by Bank and IDA/b            5,911.4    917.4
Total undisbursed                           3,581.2    153.3   3,734.5
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business            ---  (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                9.8       1.6       11.4
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9        -         0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.       -        0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                -        1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4        -         0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9        -         0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia              Construction
Material         48.0       5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market         4.0       0.3        4.3
1984   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              25.0        -        25.0
Total gross commitments                        142.6      19.6      162.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             100.8      6.5      107.3
Total held by IFC                               41.8      13.1       54.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion) 8.0                     8.0



- 30 -                        ANNEX III
INDONESIA
SECOND SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project.    Three years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:    Tidal Swamp Reclamation
Project Unit P4S of GOI's
Directorate General of Water
Resources Development with
assistance of local and
foreign consultants.
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider project:                       October 1982
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                April 1983
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   March 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          August 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a)  construct project works and carry out settlement activities in
accordance with an implementation schedule to be agreed with the
Bank (para.40);
(b)  ensure that MOT would have a full-time resident project manager with
appropriate qualifications and experience on site by July 1, 1985
(para. 40); and
(c) establish two plant protection brigades for pest control in coastal
swamp areas of South Sumatra and South Kalimantan (para. 47).



t\B~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N5nA LAND ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
A  ~~~~~~~~~B&~~~~~~~~AA ~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES                                                                                                 SECOND  SWAMP  RECLAMATION  PROJIECT
A'  MAAVSr 4 1 ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     MLASI
)  (A                                                                                                                                                    -   -   ETERNABIACA  BACE",BABESN (   -
BBBBBp  (  A  1                                                                                                       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31 ,
-1, A-                                                                 ITCA/N             AABBAR






-.         do  Cs  V .      ls                                               ,d55
ACE/I          MA.AYSIA -                                PROJECT LOCATION                                        TYPICAL  BLOCK  LAYOUT
-- -       .>-                                                  Proocs Area 33501                                    SECONDARY  UNIT
SUMA TER2 t, 4*_PoR} lo(S
, U/ARA                          /o '\ r f t ) FSRP tFh-st S...p                                                     lOOme
p     OSINGAPORE         010RM GoaratFrdd                                 IT/9A35.--
SarPo/.r                                       RadTj                                -                                            F.i
_0>~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8 _/775PH0°' Fnsrsa  RRRCmrinAss           hF75m3                                              <F.mPos
'    usrc    ----.IaoII Map           -                                                                 Ii
EARAT 1 AMB1/                                  -_ . Rawa                                                                      [I
_ i,; g DJ9PrIaabr                I eE  4'-:JAMAtBI/0* Prow1ncioi Roundarras          I          _ 1          
-5 °          e   -   IA T E /  ' I                                                                      - - : .  -e                 _ __,5 j J    
--PIS11,aoaISoIso.nois ,p   /IPMUNG   j    S                                                           -                
100   T 1syAvA Et _ _,0                          25     5                                                __ e-
< 2s X ~~~>                               6-    I4  -c  -Ado? '  IE 30                -                          __ _ _      _ _ 
j A >    ,        <         z        f       ^ <,                       .            2'  as    - >              -_-=               -
JA  hig '
ItaR/IS   2 N16 I-1s/R
SECON  SWM   ELMTO   RJC                                                                                             Ln1
GE~~~~~~~jNEAL PANG7AGzr.Grb HiIR-v2
N  -   kaIIsaAawa~~~~~~~~  /     reasa                                                      [           -p----~~~~~~~Eesrdad H.-ers
,_~~~~~T
Sir           Parimaary                                                 ki ?R 0r                                                                        )
rE| Secondory Centers  ~~~~~~~~~  -   .-  >   <);; t->-d 61-1
ATa peS                                         (tot cm0g       <            >       \
1~~~~~~~~~~~OosI Unas/tobl                                                                                Jo scaled \   - .
<BlockBoundor,es                                 j          j5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ec-/aI  DrraaCl.       I             a7/oll
--g1 Io   Corn/s
For-  Bor
INDONESIA                                                                                                 _ETR
SCOND SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT  I-
GENERAL PLAN
la 1011/0101I
-- Poject Bocdary
Coetoass, Colmeceos
BlSeo~ck Bosodosees
Peat 15-40 c. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~55 



