OFFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 2431 IND
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Second Swamp Reclamation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2431 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              a 2A           , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA    hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "AARD" means the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development in the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(b) "DGFCA" means the Directorate General of Food Crops
Agriculture in the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(c) "DGMG" means the Directorate General of Mobilization
and Guidance (RARBIN) within MOT;
(d)   "DGSP" means the Directorate General of Settlement
Preparation (PANKIM) within MOT;
(e) "DOS" means the Directorate of Swamps within the Direc-
torate General of Water Resources Development within MPW;
(f) "MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Cooperatives;
(g) "MOT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transmigration;
(h) "MPW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;


﻿-2-
(i) "P3S" means Proyek Pengairan Pasang Surut, the Project
Unit for Tidal Swamp Reclamation within the Directorate General
of Water Resources Development in MPW;
(j) "PLP" means the Directorate of Land Preparation for
Settlement within the DGSP in MOT;
(k) "PPW" means the Provincial Public Works;
(1) "Project Area" means 30,000 ha of a flat low-lying
plain along and to the north of the Lalang river in South Sumatra
about 45 km inland and 80 km northwest of Palembang; bounded to
the north by the Sembilang river and to the east by the Bor-
rower's Karang Agung Hilir swamp reclamation project; and
(i) "Settler" means a settler and his family settled in the
Project Area.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-five
million dollars ($65,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
timte by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to one hundred sixty-two thousand ninety-five dollars
($162,095).
(b) On or promptly     after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from tiMe
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii)  "Qualified  Borrowings"   means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.


﻿-4-
(iv)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project or cause
the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, engineering,
management, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose. Without limitation on
the foregoing, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause
the Project to be carried out in accordance with an Implementa-
tion Schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. In order to assist DOS, PLP, MOT, PPW, DGFCA
and AARD in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ,
in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank, consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants
to be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the bene-
fits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be pre-
pared, and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the bene-
fits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause DGFCA to extend its
crop intensification program to the Project Area, in accordance
with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause MOT, in cooperation
with DGFCA and MOC, to cause to be established, by December 31,
1986, depots and kiosks in the Project Area with adequate farm
supplies, pesticides, fertilizers, tools, equipment and their
spare parts for sale to Settlers.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause MOT to have a full-
time resident Project Manager with appropriate qualifications and
experience on site by July 1, 1985.
Section 3.09. Without limitation on Section 3.01: (a) the
Borrower shall ensure that the overall responsibility for coordi-
nating implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project
rests with MOT; that MPW is responsible for infrastructure; MOT
is responsible for land clearing and settlement: DGFCA is respon-
sible for agricultural development; social services are provided
by the Borrower's relevant Ministries, initially coordinated by
MOT; and AARD is responsible for agricultural research; and
(b) the Borrower shall through MOT coordinate the monitor-
ing and evaluation of the environmental and socio-economic impact
of the Project; shall furnish a benchmark report by December 31,
1986 to the Bank and thereafter furnish annual evaluations,
beginning May 1, 1988, to the Bank; shall cause the relevant
agencies to take remedial action to protect affected soils and
environment; and shall take steps to provide feedback for plan-
ning and future monitoring and evaluation.
Section 3.10. With respect to Part B.1 (f) of the Project,
the Borrower shall ensure that the agricultural research program
continues in accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member cOncerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institu-
tion performing the functions of a central bank or exchange sta-
bilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in


﻿-8-
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower res-
ponsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year, a certi-
fied copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said separate accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(d) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (c)
(ii) above, the Borrower shall ensure that copies of the audited
reports referred to in paragraph (c) (ii) above are sent to the
Bank and to MOT's coordinator of Bank financed transmigration
projects and thereafter send to the Bank, not later than ten
months after the end of each fiscal year, a summary of the said
audited reports to be prepared by the coordinator.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) cause all infrastruc-
ture and public facilities constructed under the Project to be


﻿-9-
operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate engineer-
ing and financial practices; and (b) make available by August 15
of each year, beginning in August 1987, the annual funds required
in each fiscal year for the maintenance of infrastructure.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date                o, 1991 , 1984 is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for
International Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                  DJMLN JKT 45799
Jakarta                           DJMDN JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) primary and         15,400,000         100%
secondary canais
and structures
(b) other               14,800,000         60%
(2) Settlement: housing      13,000,000         60%
and villages
(3) Equipment and             5,340,000          100% of foreign
materials                                   expenditures,
95% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost), 60%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(4) Consultants'             11,850,000          100%
services
(5) Well drilling               190,000         100%
and testing
(6) Training                    230,000         100%


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7) Fee                         162,095         Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(8) Unallocated               4,027,905
TOTAL              65,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in


﻿- 13 -
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)f
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank -
are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may conti-
nue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limit-
ing any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support and improve the
quality and efficiency of the Borrower's Swamp Reclamation and
Settlement Program by assisting in the physical development of
about 30,000 ha of coastal swamps in the Project Area in settling
about 11,500 families in the newly developed area, and in streng-
thening the implementation capabilities of relevant institutions
in Indonesia. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Reclamation and Settlement
1.   Provision within the Project Area of:
(a) about 14 primary drains; about 150 km of secondaries
and collector drains (gated secondary drains where required);
about 800 km of tertiaries and about 1,600 km of hamlet drains;
about 600,000 m3 of paddy-field bunds;
(b) clearing of about 7,500 ha for houselots and village
areas by contractors through labor intensive methods before
Settlers arrive; clearing of about 7,600 ha of farm plots with
Settler participation as paid laborers, if possible;
(c) subdivision of land into rectangular 1.75 ha farm plots
and 0.5 ha houselots; and
(d) settlement of about 11,500 families and provision of
necessary infrastructure, including, inter alia, construction of
about 11,500 houses, provision of adequate drinking water storage
containers, establishment of 30 village centers and two secondary
village centers.
2.   Provision within the Project Area of:
(a) subsistence package to each family including, inter
alia, sleeping mats, cooking utensils, agricultural implements
and monthly rations of essential foods and kerosene for the first
18 months after arrival;
(b) right to use (hak pakai), to each family, of their
houselots and farm plots   within one year of their arrival, and
land ownership (hak milik) for the entire holding (if farmed)
within five years of arrival;


﻿- 15 -
(c) health services, including, inter alia, anti-malarial
protection, construction of a clinic (PUSKESMAS) in each of
the two secondary village centers and a health subcenter
(SUBPUSKESMAS) in each village, supplied and staffed in accord-
ance with standards of the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(d) educational services, including, inter alia, construc-
tion of a primary school in each village and a lower secondary
school in each of the two secondary village centers;
(e) agricultural services, including, inter alia, during
the first year of settlement provision to Settlers of seeds,
planting materials and agrochemicals; and
(f) establishment of three Rural Extension Centers to pro-
vide support and follow-up activities.
3.   Establishment of two Plant Protection Brigades, one in South
Sumatra and one in South Kalimantan.
Part B:   Institutional Support
1.   Strengthening the capacities of:
(a) the headquarters staff of DOS in site selection, super-
vision and preparation of surveys, reports and plans;
(b) the construction supervision staff of P3S in South
Sumatra Province in implementation management;
(c) staff of PLP in land clearing methods, scheduling and
supervision;
(d) resident field staff of MOT in South Sumatra in orga-
nizing final land preparation through community action;
(e) staff of PPW in South Sumatra in operation and mainte-
nance of drainage infrastructure;
(f) staff of AARD in agricultural research and development
for reclaimed swamps; and
(g) staff of MOT in coordination with DOS and DGFCA in
monitoring and evaluating swamp development.


﻿- 16 -
2.   Continuation and expansion of investigations for potable
water supply and drilling of about ten test borings in the
Project Area and at a number of additional sites satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.   Studies, including, inter alia, master plans for reclamation
of coastal lands in the Province of Irian Jaya; feasibility stu-
dies and detailed design for upgrading the hydraulic infrastruc-
ture of about 35,000 ha of older swamp reclamation schemes of the
Borrower and spontaneous schemes; and expansion of environmental
impact studies of swamp development in South Sumatra and South
Kalimantan.
4.   Upgrading of about 5,000 ha of older schemes developed to
standards and costs satisfactory to the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1989
through   November 1, 2003                 2,165,000
On May 1, 2004                                  2,215,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premium on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procureent
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the pub-
lic of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for goods and civil works shall be grouped so as
to achieve efficiency in procurement, consistent with appropriate
technical and procurement practices.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland fieight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accardance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Indonesia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 21 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
$1,750,000 equivalent may be awarded in accordance with the
Borrower's local competitive bidding procedures in effect as of
the date of this Agreement, provided that such contracts shall be
grouped so as to achieve efficiency in procurement consistent
with appropriate technical and procurement practices. All civil
works contracts which extend for a period of more than one year
shall include appropriate price escalation clauses in accordance
with the Borrower's existing regulations and procedures.
2.   Contracts for equipment and materials, other than for  drag-
lines and workshop equipment, may be awarded in accordance with
the Borrower's local competitive bidding procedures in effect as
of the date of this Agreement; provided that spares and specific
types of laboratory and survey equipment may be procured after
obtaining three quotations, up to an aggregate amount of $800,000
equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more and for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.


﻿- 22 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     O#   day of      , 1984.
FOR SECRETARY


