Report No. PIC2059
Project Name              Lebanon-Administrative Rehabilitation Project
Region                    Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                    Public Sector Management
Project ID                LBPA34035
Borrower                  Lebanese Republic
Implementing Agency       Minister of State for Parliamentary
Affairs
Contact: Technical Cooperation Unit
(TCU).
Starco Building
Beirut, Lebanon
Tel: 961.1.371.508
Fax: 961.1.371.599
Date PID Prepared         April 1995
Appraisal Date            May 1995
Projected Board Date      August 1995
Project Cost              US$45.2 million
1.   Background.    As a result of the civil war that extended
over 17 years, resulting in heavy losses in human and material
terms and the emigration of large numbers of professional and
skilled workers, the ability of the Government of Lebanon to
deliver essential public services and to manage public
administration has been heavily impaired. Currently, most line
ministries and autonomous public agencies are operating with a
skeleton staff who have outmoded skills and have had little
exposure to advances in specialized fields over the years. The
prevailing low pay scales provide little incentive for efficiency
and make it difficult to attract new, better qualified staff.
The efficiency of public services is further constrained by the
acute shortages of office space and basic office equipment
resulting from the extensive destruction and damage of the war
years. The Government and private sector alike are conscious
that an efficient administration as well as the modernization of
the legal and regulatory environment are essential for attracting
domestic and foreign private investment and for successful
reconstruction and recovery. Through 1994, a number of ad hoc
measures were implemented as the first steps of administrative
rehabilitation, and some external assistance was obtained for
those purposes (primarily from the European Union and UNDP). The
Government has prepared a comprehensive program, the National
Administrative Rehabilitation Program (NARP). The NARP addresses
the basic administrative needs of each ministry and agency -
basic office equipment, furniture and vehicles, and information
technology-, as well as certain key system-wide administrative
priorities, such as assistance to design and implement long-term
administrative reform, civil service census, and dissemination
and consensus-building activities.



2.   Project Objective.   The objective of the proposed project is
to help rehabilitate the Lebanese public administration.
Rehabilitation is clearly understood as the essential first stage
of a process of reform, based on a clear and concrete policy
agenda centered on the principle of a small but efficient civil
service. Thus, beyond filling the minimum needs in key
equipment and other resources, the project aims at assisting in
streamlining procedures, providing support for designing and
initiating longer-term public administration and civil service
reform, encouraging participation and building consensus to
foster the sustainability of the process.
3.   Project Description.    The project has been designed in the
overall context of the Government's NARP to finance the program
activities that are of higher priority and are ready for
implementation. Within the program, the proposed project will
finance all of the system-wide activities and most of the
physical needs of the individual agencies and ministries.
Accordingly, the project will comprise the following activities:
(i)  civil service census and database ($1 million);    (ii)
assistance to administrative reform ($4 million), that includes a
comprehensive review of the mandates and structures of all
ministries; a comprehensive review of all civil service
regulations; job classification and grading; salary levels and
structure; and a review of public accountability and procedures
for monitoring government expenditures; (iii) "Best Practice
Fund" (BPFund) ($2 million), to finance workshops to exchange
ideas and expose participants to international experiences and
provide a forum for open internal discussion; (iv) information
technology ($17 million), including computers, software and
related training under three sub-components: inter-agency
coordination for information technology awareness and deployment;
office technology support to all ministries and core agencies;
and more in-depth support to core agencies and selected
ministries to restore their priority functions and enhance the
delivery of services to the public; (v) office equipment for
individual ministries ($9.2 million); and (vi) training and
advisory services ($10 million).-- these services would be
financed through a "Training and Advisory Services Fund" that
would select demand-driven training and advisory services on the
basis of clear criteria and procedures defined in advance.
4.   Project Cost and Financing.   The project cost is currently
estimated at $45.2 million.    Within the project, the Bank loan
would finance a total of $20 million, including $16 million for
information technology and $4 million for administrative reform,
the BP Fund, the TASFund and project implementation costs. The
Government contribution of $20 million would be distributed among
the other components. Confirmed external financing from other
sources totals $5.2 million in grants, from USAID, Kuwait Fund,
UNDP, and Canada, and will be dedicated to training and advisory
services.   The loan would provide $2 million in retroactive
financing.
5.   Project Implementation.   The project would be implemented
-2 -



over a three-year period.    Responsibility for implementation
will be vested in the Office of the Minister of State for
Parliamentary Affairs, which includes two entities recently
established to support the process of administrative
rehabilitation and longer-term reform, respectively the Technical
Cooperation Unit (TCU) and the Institutional Development Unit
(IDU). The existence of these units makes it unnecessary to
create a separate project implementation team.      The TCU will be
in charge of the major implementation tasks, and will also manage
the TASFund and the BPFund. Therefore, the TCU will require
strengthening, financed through the project, by the assignment of
specialists. In addition, project implementation will call for
close coordination with the Ministry of Finance and other core
administrative agencies. To the fullest possible extent,
procurement of like goods will be bundled, particularly in the
information technology area, and the bulk of procurement will be
effected through a few large contracts under ICB. There would
also be close coordination, as required, with UNDP and other
donors.
6.   Environmental Aspects.   The Project includes only technical
assistance and is classified under category "C" under
environmental screening, in accordance with the Bank's OD 4.01.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No. (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



