Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6656-LE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$20 MILLION
TO THE
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
FOR AN
ADMINISTRATIVE REHABILITATION PROJECT
JULY 13, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound
US$1 = LL 1,650
LL 1 million = US$581.4
ABBREVIATIONS
AUB         =      American University of Beirut
CA          =      Court of Accounts
CAS                Central Administration of Statistics
CDB         =     Central Disciplinary Board
CDR         =      Council for Development and Reconstruction
CERD        =     Center for Education Research and Development
CI                 Central Inspectorate
CSB         =      Civil Service Board
DG                 Director General
DPA                Directorate of Personnel Affairs
DOT         =      Directorate of Tenders
DRG         =      Directorate of Research and Guidance
EDI                Economic Development Institute
ENA                Ecole Nationale d'Administration
EU                 European Union
GOL                Government of Lebanon
ICB         =      International Competitive Bidding
IDU         =      Institutional Development Unit
MOF                Ministry of Finance
NARP        =      National Administrative Rehabilitation Program
NCAR        =      National Committee on Administrative Reform
NERP        =      National Emergency Recovery Program
NIAD        =      National Institute of Administrative Development
PHRD        =      Policy and Human Resource Development [Grant]
PIT                Project Implementation Team
PMO         =      Prime Minister's office
TCU         =      Technical Cooperation Unit
UNDP        =      United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
ADMINISTRATIVE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan Summary
Borrower:                   The Lebanese Republic
Beneficiaries:              Ministries and central administrative agencies of the
Government of Lebanon
Loan:                       US$20 million equivalent
Terms:                      Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the IBRD
standard variable interest rate
Total Project Cost:         US$29.5 million
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ million)
Bank                   1.7       18.3       20.0
Government             6.9        1.1        8.0
UNDP                   -          1.0        1.0
Canada                 -          0.5        0.5
Total      8.6      20.9       29.5
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Poverty Category:           Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:     Technical Annex attached in lieu of SAR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCHION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO U$20 MILLION
TO THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
FOR AN ADMINISTRATIVE REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Lebanese Republic in an amount equivalent to US$201 million to help
finance the rehabilitation of the central government administration. The proposed loan
would be at the World Bank's standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 17 years,
including five years of grace.
2.    Background. Lebanon, in the early 1970s a middle-income country with a vibrant
private sector-led economy, has been devastated by 15 years of war and military occupation.
The war has left the economy in ruins, with real per capita income reduced by nearly two-
thirds due largely to the widespread destruction of infrastructure and productive assets,
estimated by the United Nations at approximately $25 billion. All sectors of the economy
have been affected by the war, both directly and from the near total disruption in capital
investment and maintenance. The impact on human resources and the public administration
has been equally large. Apart from the tragic loss of life and the disabling of hundreds of
thousands of people, about 200,000 professional and skilled workers are estimated to have
emigrated, resulting in severe skill shortages throughout the economy.
3.    The 1989 Ta'if Accord for National Reconciliation, under the aegis of the Arab League,
was a first step toward bringing an end to the violence in late 1990. A national unity
government reestablished its authority over the Greater Beirut area and most of the national
territory. The process of political normalization culminated in parliamentary elections in
September 1992 and the formation of a new government in October 1992. While the power
sharing arrangements between denominational groups are still evolving, the Prime Minister
has assembled a strong economic team, many of whom bring a private sector background to
the task of rehabilitating the war-damaged economy while maintaining economic and
political stability.
4.    Macroeconomic Trends. A sharp economic recovery took place in 1991, but
Government attempts to achieve economic stabilization initially yielded mixed results.
Economic instability, triggered by an excessive fiscal deficit financed by monetary expansion,
prevailed for most of 1992. With significant fiscal adjustment and large capital inflows,
stability prevailed during 1993 and 1994. The exchange rate appreciated and foreign exchange
reserves were replenished. In 1994, the inflation rate fell to less than 10% and GDP growth
was an estimated 8.5%. However, the overall fiscal deficit widened to 21% of GDP (from 9%
in 1993), with the current deficit rising from 7% to 11% of GDP as a result of the sharply
higher interest payments on the rapidly rising level of domestic debt, and capital
expenditures increasing to 10% of GDP as the reconstruction program took off. Public debt
has risen to around two-thirds of GDP, but most of it is domestic debt, with external debt
only about $850 million, approximately 10% of GDP.
I Hereafter, " $ " denotes US dollars.



5.    The State of the Public Administration. The war devastated the administrative
infrastructure as much as the physical infrastructure, both because of the physical and human
damage and lack of maintenance, and because the conflict froze the normal process of
administrative adaptation and isolated the system from the rest of the world for almost two
decades. This isolation happened precisely when technological and communications
advances and practical experience were leading many countries to eliminate redundant
controls and formalities, shed certain government functions, give more space to individual
initiative and streamline administrative decision-making. Consequently, in addition to the
dilapidated state of the public administration, administrative and civil service procedures in
Lebanon no longer fit the requirements of a modem state. The present situation of the public
administration shows the following characteristics: (a) office space is not available in most
cases as many war-damaged buildings require considerable repair and rehabilitation;
(b) office equipment is minimal and obsolete; (c) most ministries and public agencies are
operating with a skeleton staff despite the Government's recruitment effort after the end of
the war; (d) the distorted and inadequate compensation system does not attract qualified
local professionals, let alone the Lebanese living abroad; (e) the civil service is aging (with an
average age of 54) and insufficiently trained, reflecting the impossibility over the prolonged
war years to practice their skills and to keep abreast of changing international practices in
their fields of activity; (0 while there is a shortage of qualified regular staff, there is an
excessive number of unqualified daily workers; and (g) the basic procedures of public
administration, established 35 years ago or longer, are over-centralized and outmoded.
6.    Weakened by the absence of a functioning civil service and "basic administrative
needs," the Government is handicapped in carrying out normal governance functions
effectively, not to mention the challenge of keeping up with and supporting the economic
recovery. There is a strong consensus in the private as well as the public sector that the
current weakness and inefficiency of the public administration is a major and growing
hindrance to private economic activity, the country's economic recovery, the environment,
and citizens' well-being. Examples are many and affect virtually the entire interface between
the government and citizens' daily life. Thus, the backlog makes it next to impossible to
register a new car; enforcement of traffic rules is non-existent, and safety is badly
compromised; zoning regulations exist but are not implemented, leading to increasingly
severe solid waste pollution in the cities and beachfronts; public procurement procedures
cannot be enforced from lack of personnel--leading to widespread fraud and corruption; the
public transportation system has broken down (the Ministry of Transport has 1,000 drivers,
but only 29 functioning buses); when there is an attempt at enforcing standard regulations,
the scarcity of personnel and material resources causes them to be a major hindrance to
private sector activity--as in the case of business licenses; and so on.
7.    The positive side of the destructive Lebanese experience is that many civil servants
continued to do their best under extraordinarily difficult circumstances. Thus, many of the
existing regular civil servants can contribute to administrative reconstruction under certain
conditions. They should be: (a) complemented by qualified new staff; (b) given resources to
work with; (c) adequately compensated; (d) made receptive to modernizing their skills
through in-service training; and, most importantly; (e) willing to operate within a simpler
and more efficient regulatory and procedural framework. At the same time, there is a need
for practical and effective machinery for replacing inefficient civil servants.
8.    Government Strategy and Policy Reform Agenda. Administrative reform has been a
subject for reflection and debate in Lebanon since 1990. The Government is conscious of the
right directions, clear about the policy priorities, and has already begun to take several



- 3 -
practical measures. It recognizes that an efficient administration, as well as the development
of a sound legal and regulatory environment, are essential for attracting domestic and foreign
private investment and for successful reconstruction and recovery. The Government's overall
objective is a very lean and efficient public administration able to provide basic services to
the economic agents and citizens, in line with the Lebanese tradition of a predominant
private sector. The Government has made some initial efforts to rehabilitate the
administration and enable it to carry out long-term reform. The Council of Ministers
entrusted the Minister of State for Administrative Reform with the responsibilities to
coordinate these efforts. The Minister of State has formed respectively in May and December
1994, with UNDP support, a small nucleus consisting of an Institutional Development Unit
(IDU) to coordinate longer-term reforms and a Technical Cooperation Unit (TCU) to guide
and implement the rehabilitation activities. The Council of Ministers also created four inter-
ministerial conmittees to examine the salary scale, compensation, job classification, and
organizational structure of specific ministries. With the assistance of the World Bank
(through the 1994 Revenue Enhancement and Fiscal Management Technical Assistance
Project), the Government is rehabilitating and strengthening the Ministry of Finance in the
areas of tax and customs administration, cadastre and land registration, and public
expenditure management. A Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant for
technical assistance in the amount of $485,000 from the Government of Japan was used to
develop a program closely conforming to Lebanon's urgent needs for administrative
rehabilitation (see para.10) and the initiation of steps towards longer-term administrative
reform.
9.    As noted, the Government vision is to achieve over time the smallest possible public
administration consistent with the basic requirements of the state in a private-oriented
economy, but efficient and well compensated--taking into account the new possibilities for
private delivery and financing of public services, the need to improve administrative
accountability and citizens' "voice," and the desirability of using the capacities of local
government. To move toward that vision, the Government has launched a comprehensive
review of the mandates and functions of all ministries and central agencies. In addition, a
number of specific and important policy actions and targets are envisaged, consistent with
local conditions as well as with the lessons of international experience. These are contained
in the annexed Government Statement on Administrative Reform (Administrative Reform
Program), which has been adopted on June 27, 1995 and entails the following:
(i)   complete by end-1996 a review of the structures and mandates of all ministries,
focussing on key public functions and possibilities for partnership with the private
sector and local governments, and implement the results beginning in 1997;
(ii)   reduce the number of permanent civil service posts (excluding teachers) by 5,000, and
cap them at that lower level by 1997. (Note that only 7,400 of the 20,860 posts are
currently filled, see Table 1 in the Technical Annex);
(iii)  reduce the number of daily and contractual workers (currently 8,400--higher than the
number of permanent employees) to no more than 10% of the total of permanent
positions by end-1998;
(iv)   approve by end-1996 the final salary scale, which will incorporate most allowances,
and will be based on the principle of comparability with the local private sector--
taking into account the job security and other advantages of public employment;



- 4 -
(v)   complete by end-1996 a comprehensive review of job classification and grading
system with a view to simplifying the system, facilitating comparability and mobility
within the civil service, encouraging efficiency in personnel management, and, in line
with the results of the review of ministerial mandates, implement the new system in
early 1997;
(vi)  introduce by end-1995 a simple and standardized performance evaluation system,
including upward feedback and, where appropriate, users' opinions;
(vii) complete by end-1996 a major review of all civil service regulations on recruitment,
retention, evaluation, promotion, mobility, retirement and discipline, and of the roles
of the administrative core agencies, with the aim of retaining essential safeguards of
quality and merit and preserving the integrity of a unified civil service and
administrative system while achieving a major simplification and streamlining of
procedures and processes, and put in place the new regulations in 1997; and
(viii) complete by end-1996 a review of the control and audit procedures to focus the
responsibility for ex ante financial controls exclusively on financial authorities, and the
responsibility for ex post audits on the Court of Accounts, and implement the results
of the review in early 1997.
10.   The National Administrative Rehabilitation Program (NARP). Through 1994, certain
ad hoc measures were implemented as the first steps towards administrative rehabilitation.
Beyond those initial steps, the Government has completed in May 1995, under the leadership
of the Minister of State for Administrative Reform, a comprehensive program to fill the basic
administrative needs of each ministry and agency, aimed at restoring the functioning of the
Lebanese administration. The NARP is a pre-requisite and a first stage of the needed longer-
term administrative reform and modernization process outlined above.
11.   For central government and public autonomous agencies the NARP comprises: office
equipment, furniture and vehicles; information technology; training; and advisory services.
The program is to be implemented over a 3-5 year period. It calls for a total expenditure of
$106 million, of which about $81 million for assistance to central government agencies and
ministries. Of the latter, $14 million are for information technology and other equipment,
$19 million in furniture and vehicles, $17 million for training and $31 mnillion for advisory
services. In addition, $20 million have been allocated for implementation by the Council for
Development and Reconstruction (CDR) for rehabilitation of administrative buildings, which
is well underway. Details on the NARP are provided in the Technical Annex.
12.   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Government and the private sector alike feel
strongly that the country's recovery depends on the public administration getting back on its
feet fast, and that administrative rehabilitation and reform are key components of
reconstruction. The Government has formulated a comprehensive program, the NARP, for
which coordinated external resources are essential, and has requested the Bank to exercise
leadership in helping to finance the program, mobilize donor support, and directly advising
and assisting the large and difficult task of administrative reform. The Administrative
Rehabilitation Project is consistent with the country assistance strategy (see below), and,
building upon previous Bank efforts to strengthen the Lebanese public administration (e.g.,
the Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation and the Revenue Enhancement and Fiscal
Management Projects), it will help establish a sounder institutional environment for Bank
(and other donor-supported) projects.



- 5 -
13.   Relationship with the Country Assistance Strategy. The Country Assistance Strategy
was last discussed by the Executive Directors on June 30, 1994 . The Project is central to the
first objective of the current Bank strategy of assistance to Lebanon--i.e., help establish
economic stability and an enabling environment for the private sector, and rebuild and
strengthen public administration. The strategy emphasizes the early strengthening of public
administration since the temporary administrative improvements reached by utilizing private
resources do not represent a lasting and politically sustainable situation. Moreover, with a
weak administration, prospects for implementation of the Government reconstruction
program and delivery of the Bank assistance program will remain uncertain, particularly if
social conditions are not rapidly improved. Hence, in addition to the immediate
rehabilitation, the project will also help launch long-term administrative reform--which is the
missing link between private sector-led economic recovery and an equitable sharing of
benefits from growth and protection of basic public interests. Accordingly, while the Project
supports rehabilitation, the timetable of design and implementation of the reform actions in
the Government Statement on Administrative Reform (see para. 9) can potentially serve to
provide the basis for future Bank assistance to support administrative reform to follow the
proposed project. Also, institutional strengthening is a major objective of Bank-supported
investment projects currently being implemented or prepared.
14.   Project Objective. The objective of the Project is to help rehabilitate the public
adcministration, while launching the process of administrative reform. As noted,
rehabilitation is clearly understood by the Government as the essential first stage of a process
of reform, based on a clear and concrete policy agenda centered on the principle of a small
but efficient civil service. Thus, beyond filling the needs in key equipment and other
resources as identified in the NARP, the project assists in streamlining procedures, designing
and initiating longer-term public administration and civil service reform, encouraging
participation and building consensus to foster the sustainability of the process.
15.   Project Description. The project has been designed in the overall context of the
Government's NARP, to finance requirements of higher priority and ready for
implementation, as detailed below. The Government intends to continue efforts to mobilize
additional financing in the future from other donors to support the remaining activities
under the NARP, and particularly training, other than training related to information
technology which is included in the Project. There are prospects for funding from the EU,
Japan's OECF, the Arab Fund and USAID. Within the NARP, the project will finance all of
the needs in information technology and office equipment of the individual agencies and
ministries, including necessary training. The project will also finance a comprehensive
census of civil servants and assistance to administrative reform. Specifically, the project will
comprise:
(i)    civil service census ($0.8 million); a civil service census is a necessary pre-requisite of
the reform process. The objectives of the census are, first, to identify and remove
from the payroll "ghost" employees and correct other irregularities and, second, to
update and improve personnel data. Such an exercise, funded by USAID, is already
under way for non-teaching personnel and a parallel census of teachers is under
preparation. The project will provide resources to complete the full census of all
employees on a compatible basis.
(ii)   assistance to administrative reform ($2.1 million); the Project will finance a series of
timebound studies including a comprehensive review of the mandates of all
ministries; a review of all civil service regulations; a study of salary levels and



- 6 -
structure; and a review of control and audit procedures. In addition, this component
will finance "Best Practice" workshops to exchange ideas, expose participants to
international experiences and provide a forum for open internal discussion on the
proposed reforms;
(iii)  information technology ($16.8 million); the Project will provide computers, software,
systems and related training under three sub-components: inter-agency coordination
for information technology awareness and deployment ($3.8 million); office
technology support to all ministries and core agencies ($6.3 million); and more in-
depth support to core agencies and selected ministries to restore their priority
functions and enhance the delivery of services to the public ($6.7 million);
(iv)   office equipment for individual ministries ($2.3 million); communication equipment
and other office equipment for all line ministries and agencies; and
(v)   project and program implementation support ($4.5 million), as described in para. 17.
16.   Project Cost and Financing. Accordingly, total project cost is estimated at $29.5
million (including physical and price contingencies of $1.3 million and taxes of $1.7 million).
Project cost and financing by component are detailed in Schedule A. Amounts and methods
of procurement and disbursement are given in Schedule B. The Bank loan of $20 million will
cover almost 90% of the foreign exchange cost of the project, and 20% of local cost. It will
finance $13.5 million for information technology, $2.3 million for office equipment, $0.8
million for the census, $1.7 for assistance to administrative reform, a $0.5 million contribution
to project implementation, and $1.2 million for physical and price contingencies. The
Government contribution of $8 million will finance largely the local costs of information
technology and project implementation, and all taxes. Confirmed external financing $1.5
million from UNDP and Canada will contribute to project and program implementation
costs.
17.   Project Implementation. The Project will be implemented over a three-year period.
Responsibility for implementation will be vested in the Office of the Minister of State of
Administrative Reform, which includes the two entities recently established to support the
process of administrative rehabilitation and longer-term reform, respectively the Technical
Cooperation Unit (TCU) and the Institutional Development Unit (IDU). Both units will
require strengthening, financed through the Project, by the assignment of specialists. The
IDU will supervise the administrative reform studies and workshops. The TCU will be in
charge of implementing the other components. To the fullest possible extent, procurement of
like goods will be bundled, particularly in the information technology area, and the bulk of
procurement will be effected through a few large contracts under ICB. There will also be
close coordination, as required, with UNDP and other donors, and duplication of activities
will be avoided through the leading role of the Office of the Minister of State in the selection
and direction of project staff and consultants.
18.   Project Sustainability. Sustainability of the project will depend first on its budgetary
implications. A reduction of the number of daily workers and further control of civil service
size, as envisaged in the Government's Statement on Administrative Reform (para. 9), should
alleviate the cost of the new salary scale. A second element will be the timely recruitment by
all beneficiary entities of the key staff needed to perform basic functions, utilize the
equipment and absorb the technical advice and related training. This recruitment process is
already underway. However, without the required substantial revision of the salary structure



it will not be possible to attract qualified personnel in the requisite numbers. The
government has already taken steps towards an interim revision of the salary scale. This
proposed scale provides for an overall 20% salary increase (skewed in favor of higher-level
personnel, whose compensation is especially inadequate), and integration of most allowances
in the salary base. In due course, this scale would be replaced by the new job classification
system and salary structure proposed in the study financed under the project (see para. 15).
In general, as noted earlier, this project for administrative rehabilitation cannot produce a
lasting development impact in the absence of early and sustained progress of administrative
reform. The Government leadership have confirmed strong support for the rehabilitation and
reform program and for the project itself. Such commitment is demonstrated, among other
things, by the adoption of the Government Statement on Administrative Reform and by the
re-appointment on May 25, 1995 of the Minister of State, who is now no longer in charge of
parliamentary affairs and will be able to dedicate all his time to administrative reform. It
remains important, however, to enlarge the base of consensus further--partly through the
Best Practice Workshops supported by the Project .
19.   Actions already taken. The Government has already initiated the implementation of
the Administrative Reform Program. It has recently adopted the Statement on
Administrative Reform (see para. 9) and established a National Committee on Administrative
Reform to advise on the process of long-term reform (see para. 17 in the Technical Annex).
Earlier, the Government had: (i) defined targets to gradually retrench daily and contractual
workers;2 (ii) completed the proposal for an interim revision of salaries; and (iii) put in place
specific procedures to fill key management posts on a temporary basis. With a view to
ensuring early implementation of the Project, the Government has already: (i) appointed the
key members of the project implementation support team; (ii) certified that the key
counterpart staff in most beneficiary ministries and agencies responsible for Project activities
are in place; and (iii) entered into arrangements with CDR to act as agent for the Office of
the Minister of State for procurement in the Project, following successful recent precedents.
20.   In addition, and consistent with its intentions concerning administrative reform, the
Government has agreed to complete the following actions in the course of 1996: (i) civil
service census; (ii) removal from the payroll of identified irregularities; (iii) job classification
and grading review; (iv) review of control and audit procedures; and (v) review of civil
service regulations. These actions, and the progress of administrative reform in general, will
form a major subject for the mid-term review of the Project in early 1997.
21.   Retroactive Financing. The loan will provide for $1.0 million in retroactive financing
to finance the civil service census and part of project implementation costs.
22.   Supervision. Because of the number of beneficiary entities and the importance of
appropriate sequencing, the Project will require close supervision, especially at the beginning.
A Project Launch Seminar will take place in October 1995. Subsequently, there will be a
minimum of two supervision missions a year, including a mid-term review, and progress in
implementation will be assessed in terms of monitorable indicators for each component.
Implementation and supervision will be greatly facilitated by the Government commitment to
the process and the team in place in the office of the Minister of State. (See the Technical
Annex on all these points.)
2 The number of daily workers allowed has been defined miristry by ministry.



- 8 -
23.   Lessons Learned. As the complexity of a project is the source of difficulty in many
cases, the Project has been confined to high-priority components. Though several
institutions are involved, the activities to be carried out have been defined clearly and in
such a way as to facilitate procurement, which will also be bundled as much as possible.
Further, the Project is not handicapped by another factor of poor implementation, viz., the
lack of borrower ownership, since the Government has shown firm commitment. Another
common problem is lack of capacity to guide project activities. In this case, as noted, an
implementation team is already present in the Office of the Minister of State for
Administrative Reform. In addition, appropriate advisory and specialist support will be
provided within 1995 to compensate for the lack of staff with the required skills. Special
emphasis will be placed on attracting qualified Lebanese specialists and advisors.
24.   Environmental Aspects. The Project is classified under category "C" under
environmental screening, in accordance with the Bank's OD 4.01.
25.   Project Benefits. The benefits are: (a) rehabilitation of central administration;
(b) launching the process of administrative reform; (c) improved sectoral capacity to
administer and develop social programs on which sustainable development also depends;
(d) finally, the improved systemic accountability and strengthening of the legal and
administrative infrastructure initiated through the Project will help attract domestic and
foreign investment, needed for the recovery of the Lebanese economy.
26.   Risks. There are specific risks associated with the proposed project. First, although
the existing leadership of the civil service can provide needed continuity, the Lebanese civil
service is aging, and tends to relate to the "golden age" of administration that allegedly
existed before the war. However, the administration needs to be rebuilt along new lines. To
address this concern, the Bank has obtained a Government assurance of vigorous efforts to
recruit new talent. This will also be important to alleviate the second risk: delays in project
execution, as a result of lack of qualified, motivated management and staff. Finally, while
the Government is committed to the reform process, the complex postwar socio-political
situation could affect the pace and scope of the process. However, prospects are good that
further normalization of the political situation following Presidential and Parliamentary
elections in late 1995 and early 1996, combined with progress toward broader peace in the
region, will produce circumstances increasingly conducive to lasting institutional reform.
27.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
July 13, 1995
Washington, DC
Attachments



9-
Annex
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Presidency of the Council of Minsers3
GOVERNM1ENT STATEMIENT ON ADMINlISTRATIvE REFORMI
The General Avoroach
The public administration in Lebanon has been devastated by the war. A majority of regular civil
servant positions remain unfilled; compensation is distorted and badly inadequate (especially at the higher
and middle levels); the civil service is aging (with an average age of 54); and it has few or no material
resources to work with. Lebanon's economic future, as its past, lies in a dynamic private sector, with the
state in an enabling role directing its resources progressively and im a plarned approach towards basic and
essential functions.  Both the Government and the private sector are strongly convinced, however, that
private sector-centered economic recovery has been hampered by the dilapidated state to the public
administration, and cannot be sustained without administrative and civil service rehabilitation and reform.
Accordingly, the Govemrnent's uki:rate objective is to achieve over time a smaller, efficient and better
compensated public administration, consistentt with the basic requirements of a State in a free economy as
established by the Constitution. Such adirnistration should be able to take into account new potential for
financing public services by the private sector to attain efficient delivery, the need to imnprove
admiinistrative accountability and "citizens voice", and the desirability of using to the fullest the capacites
of local Govemrnent.
The first stage of the process must be the rehabilitation of basic physical structures and
administrative capabilities.  A number of preliminary steps have already been taken. In particular, a
comprehensive National Administrative Rehabilitation Program (N.ARP) has been prepared, the
implementation of which is planned over a period of three years. The Government believes, however, that a
clear policy vision concerning the public administration must accompany the process of rehabiliation. The
basic elements of such a vision are two: (i) revitaization of the civil service; and (ii) modernization of
administrative and civil service structures and procedures.
Civil servants still in place can make an important contribution to administrative rehabilitation,
under the foUowing conditions. They should: (1) be complemented by qualified new staff, (ii) be given
resources to work with; (iii) be adequately compensated; (iv) accept the challenges of modernizing their
skills through in-service training; (v) ensure that the system provides practical and effective rmachinery to
encourage good performers and replace inefficient ones; and most importantly, (vi) be willing to operate
within a regulatory and procedural framework much sirnpler and efficient than the existing one.
Most of the basic Lebanese procedures of public administration were established 35 years ago and
no longer fit the requiremernts of a mod,em statte. Administrative rehabilitation should be accompanied by
the introduction of simplified procedures and improved work methods, including the use of modem, labor-
saving technology.
These considerations and the present situation require a phased approach to administrative reform
which focuses immediately on urgent rehabilitation measures to restore the capacity of the civil service to
carry out its basic fimctions and at the same time prepare the grotmd for fixture administrative reform.
There is a need to examine the overall stucture of government administration and the objective and
mandates of individual ministries and agencies, in light of efficiency, developmenal criteria and the role of
the privae sector.                                                                  *



- 10-
To emphasize Government's serious commitnent to Administrative Reforrn, Minister Anwar El-
Khalil, in charge of Administrative Reform, and in close collaboration with the Minister of State for
Finance, the Civil Service Board and the Central Inspection Board, formed four comnnittees to address the
following critical areas.  (a) organizational structure of Govermnent; (b) salaries and benefits; (c)
classification, grading and job analysis; and (d) performance evaluations and incentives. These committees
started work in July 1994, and have so far produced several reports and specific recommendations.
Specific Intentions
In particular, the Government intends to undertake the key policy actions described below.
1.    Implement the National Administrative Rehabilitation Program (NARP) over a period of
three years (1995-1998).
2.     Parallel to the implementation of NARP, we shall complete by the end of 1996 a review of
the mnandates and structures of all ministries and Public Agencies with the objective of streamlining public
service functions, eliminate duplication between different entities or even within the same entity, take
advantage of possibilities for partnership with the private sector and local government and ensure
transparent and efficient execution of mandates. Such a review will result, among other things, in reducing
the number of posts already established by the law in the civil service cadre. For the foreseeable future in
Lebanon, this implies a potential reduction of not less than five thousand posts by 1997.
3.     A program to reallocate, retrain or retrench temporary workers shall be formulated as soon
as possible with a view to reducing such personnel to no more than ten percent of the total permanent
positions by end 1998.
4.     The civilian wage bill (including teachers but not the salary portion of the investment
program) shall be kept under continuous scrutiny to ensure a sensible balance between an equitable pay
.that can attract qualified people into the civil service and, at the same time, that such bill does not exceed
what is tolerable as a proportion to total current expenditure of the central government.
5.     The salary scale shall be increased, and relativities altered, to provide adequate salaries,
taking into account the job security and other advantages of public employment, and based on a
comparative analysis to determine such salary scales. An interim salary scale was formulated and is being
finalized for presentation to the Cabinet during July 1995. This new interim salary scale eliminates most
allowances and consolidates them into the regular scale (except for assignment-related allowances or
benefits that cannot by their nature be consolidated therein).  Pending the completion of the job
classification exercise (see below), the salary scales shall be reviewed with the view to ensure relative
compatibility with private sector pay scales in the country. This revision should be completed by end 1996,
and implemented in 1997.
. X             ,.; O



- 11-
6.     Review and recommend for simpliffing and standardizing job classification and grading
systems used in the civil service, with a view to bringing them into line across the service; to facilitating
comparability and movement within the service; to encouraging efficiency in management of human
resources; and in line with the then-ongoing review of ministerial mandates. This review shall be completed
by end 1996 and its results implemented in 1997.
7.     Develop a simple and standardized performance evaluation system, performance feedback
to staff and promotion criteria, including the provision for independent evaluation and machinery to deal
with staff grievances, upward feedback and, where appropriate, users' opinions. The study will also
include recommendations for incentives to reward productivity and high perfornance standards. The final
study will be completed end 1995 and its recommendations implemented in mid-1996.
8.     A  major review  of civil service regulations on recruitment, retention, evaluation,
promotion, mobility, retirement, and discipline shall be completed by end 1996, with a view to retaining
present essential safeguards of integrity, quality and merit while achieving a major simplification and
streamlining of procedures and processes, and the new regulations will be put in place in early 1997.
9.    In keeping with the above regulatory review, a review of the roles, responsibilities and
structure of the key administrative core agencies-the civil service board, the central inspectorate, the
central disciplinary board and the court of accounts-shall be completed by end 1996. concerning the court
of accounts, the objective will be to focus the responsibility for ex ante financial controls exclusively on the
financial authorities. The Court of Accounts would be responsible exclusively for quick and forceful ex
post audits with clear, certain and swift consequences. At the same time, the accountability mechanisms
will be strengthened sufficiently to permit this reform. The results of the review will be implemented in
early 1997.
2 7 JUIN 1995
c A-H
President of the Co    ~    ses



- 12 -
Schedule A
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
ADMINISiRATWVE REHABILlTATION PROJECT
A. Cost by Components
($ million)
Project Activities        Local    Foreign       Total
Civil Service Census               0.3        0.5        0.8
Administrative Reform              0.9        1.2        2.1
1. Studies                       0.4        0.8        1.2
2. Workshops                     0.5        0.4        0.9
Information Technology             4.2       12.6       16.8
1. Informatics Coordination (a)  3.3        0.5        3.8
2. Office Technology             0.7        5.6         6.3
3. Program for Selected Ministries
and Agencies                  0.2        6.5        6.7
Office Equipment                    -         2.3        2.3
Project/Program Implementation    1.5         3.0        4.5
Taxes on Equipment                 1.7         -         1.7
Physical Contigencies               -         1.1        1.1
Price Contingencies                           0.2        0.2
Total Project Cost   8.6       20.9       29.5
(a) The local ccst represents salaries for IT counterpart staff.
B. Financing Plan by Components
($ million)
ProjectActivities         Bank   Govermntent  UNDP   Canada    Total
Civil Service Census               0.8                                       0.8
Administrative Reform              1.7         0.4                           2.1
1. Studies                       0.8         0.4                            1.2
2. Workshops                     0.9                                        0.9
Information Technology            13.5         3.3                          16.8
Office Equipment                   2.3                                       2.3
ProjectProgram Implementation    0.5           2.5       1.0       0.5       4.5
Taxes on Equipment                             1.7                           1.7
Physical Contingencies             1.1                                       1.1
Price Contingencies                0.1         0.1                           0.2
Total  20.0          8.0       1.0       0.5      29.5



- 13 -
Schedule B
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
ADMINISrRATIVE REHABILITATION PROJECT
A. Procurement Arrangements (a)
($ million)
Project Component (b)       Procurement Method       N.B.F. (d)    Total Cost
ICB         Other (c)
Civil Service Census          --             0.8 (0.8)      --          0.8  (0.8)
Studies and Workshops          -             1.7 (1.7)       0.4        2.1  (1.7)
Information Technology        15.4 (14.1)    0.6 (0.5)      -          16.0 (14.6)
IT Counterpart Staff          -              --             3.3         3.3   (-)
Office Equipment               2.8  (2.4)    --             --          2.8  (2.4)
Project Implementation        --             0.5 (0.5)      4.0         4.5  (0.5)
Total                         18.2 (16.5)    3.6 (3.5)      7.7        29.5 (20.0)
(a) Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Banl.
(b) Comrponents include taxes and contingencies.
(c) The Banke consultant guidelines would apply.
(d) Non-Bank finarced.
B, Disbursements
($ million)
Category             Amount  Percent Financed by the Bank
Consultant services & studies       3.5    100% of expenditures
Equipment, supplies, & materials   16.5    100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
(ex factory cost) and 85% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
TOTAL                       20.0
Estimated Bank                   Bank Fiscal Year
Disbursements       FY96        FY97      FY98        FY99
Annual                  1.5         8.0        7.8        2.7
Cumulative              1.5         9.5       17.3       20.0



- 14 -
Schedule C
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
ADMINISTRATIVE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:           Four months
(b)   Prepared by:                     Office of the Minister of State for Administrative
Reform, with Bank assistance
(c)    Preparation Mission             February 1995
(d)   Appraisal Mission                May 1995
(e)    Negotiations:                   May 1995
(f)    Board Presentation:             August 1995
(g)   Forecast date of effectiveness:  October 1995
(h)   List of relevant PCRs and PPARs: Not applicable
Responsibility for Preparation
Task Manager:                          Mr. Salvatore Schiavo-Campo, EMTPM
Division Chief:                        Mr. Adil J. Kanaan, MN2CO
Country Department Director:           Mr. Inder Sud, MN2DR
Regional Vice President:               Mr. Caio Koch-Weser, MNAVP
Peer Reviewers:                        Mr. Ali Hashim, OBPIE
Mr. Richard Moore, LA3PS
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mnission in May 1995 consisting of: Lama Abu-Odeh
(Legal Counsel), Hanan Askalan (Infonnation Officer), David Howarth (Procurement Advisor), Marion
Leblanc-Wohrer (LT consultant), Anne-Marie Leroy (Sr. Public Administration Specialist), J. Murli (Chief
Administrative Officer), Antoun Moussa (Sr. Informatics Specia}st), Salvatore Schiavo-Campo (Mission
Leader), and Graeme Thompson (consultant).



- 15 -
Schedule D
THLE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
ADMIINISTUTUVE REEABILrTATION PROJECT
Ihe Status Of Bank Group Operations in Lebanon
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of May 31, 1995)
Loan No.        Fiscal Year    Borrower   Purpose                          Bank    IDA  lndisbursed
Loans closed                   Lebanon                                     93.66
Loan 3562           93         Lebanon   Emergency Recovery               175.00                98.18
Loan 3769           94         Lebanon   Irrigation Rehabilitation
& Modernization                 57.23                57.23
Loan 3770           94         Lebanon   TA for Revenue Enhancement        19.94                19.94
Loan 3829           95         Lebanon   Health Project                    35.70                35.70
TOTAL                                                                     381.53               211.05
of which has been repaid                                                 84.12
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                            297.41               211.05
B. Statements of IFC Investments (as of May 31, 1995)
Date                   Borrower                Type of Business   Loan    Equity  Participant Total
1971    Filitex                              Textiles             0.43     0.00      0.50     0.93
1971    Lebanese Ceramic Industries (LECICO) Manufacturing        0.70     0.00      0.50     1.20
1975    Bank of Near East (BNE)              Banking              0.00     1.25      0.00     1.25
1974 /78 Lebanon Textiles (Libtex)           Textiles             4.13     0.00      1.60     5.73
1993    Uniceraniic                          Manufacturing        4.00     0.00      2.00     6.00
1993    Bank of Beirut and the Arab Countries  Banking            6.00     0.00      3.00     9.00
1993    Bank Audi                            Banking              6.00     0.00      3.00     9.00
1993    Banque du Liban et d'Outre Mer       Banking              6.00     0.00      3.00     9.00
1993    Byblos Bank                          Banking              6.00     0.00      3.00     9.00
1993 /94 Fransabank                          Banking             12.00     0.00     9.00     21.00
1994    Banque Libanaise pour le Commerce    Banking              6.00     0.00      3.00     9.00
1994    Banque Libano-Francaise SAL          Banking              6.00     0.00      6.00    12.00
1994    Societe Generale Libano-Europeenne    Banking             6.00     0.00      6.00     12.00
1994    Cimenterie Naitonale                 Manufacturing       20.00     0.00     30.00    50.00
Total Gross Cornmrittments                               83.26    1.25      70.60    155.11
Less: Total Comnmitrments Repaid, Sold or Cancelled      5.66      1.25     2.80      9.71
Total Comnnmitments now held                             77.60    0.00      67.80    145.40
Total Undisbursed                                        43.09    0.00      46.75    89.84






THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
ADMINISTRATIVE REHABILrTATION PROJECT
Technical Annex
July 13, 1995






CONTENTS
Page
A.  DETAILED  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION    ......................................... 1
L. Background.                                                                                                                           1
II.  The National Administrative Rehabilitation Program.                                                                                 4
III. Project Objective.                                                                                                                  6
IV. Project Description.                                                                                                                 6
Civil Service Census.                                                                                                      6
Assistance to Administrative Reform.                                                                                       8
Information Technology.                                                                                                    9
Office Equipment .11
Project and Program Implementation Support .11
V.   Project Cost and Financing ............................................ 12
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ADMINISTRATION ......................... 12
I.   Implementation ..................................................... 12
Arrangements for Project Implementation   .............................. 12
Work Plans and Review of Progress .................................. 12
II.   Procurement and Disbursement ........................................ 13
Goods ......................................................... 13
Consultant Services ............................................... 13
Retroactive Financing ............................................. 13
Disbursement .                    .................................................. 14
III.    Reporting, Auditing and  Supervision    .................................... 14
Reporting and  Auditing  ............................................  14
Supervision  Plan  .................................................  14
Closing Date .               .................................................... 14
Text Tables
1. The Lebanese Civil Service ................................................. 2
2. Civil Service Pay Scale ..................................................... 3
Attachments*
1.   Organization  of the Office of the Minister of State for Administrative Reform    ....                                          ...... 15
2.   The National Administrative  Rehabilitation  Program   ............................. 16
3. Information Technology Activities ........................................... 17
4.   Monitorable Indicators and  Agenda for the Mid-Term  Review   ...................... 19
* Details of project implementation, in sufficient technical detail, are assembled in a separate Supplementary
Implementation Document (available on request), which includes: implementation schedule; procurement plan;
supervision plan, specific terms of reference for the administrative reform studies; schedule, budget and resources for the
'Best Practice" Workshops; detailed allocation of office technology and other equipment to ministries and agencies; and the
extended termns of reference and budget of the project and program implementation team and its key staff.






A. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPEION
I. Background
1.    The war devastated the administrative infrastructure of Lebanon as much as the
physical infrastructure, both because of the physical and human damage and the lack of
maintenance, and because the conflict froze the normal process of administrative adaptation
and isolated the system from the rest of the world for almost two decades. This isolation
happened precisely when technological and communications advances and practical
experience were leading many countries to eliminate redundant controls and formalities,
shed certain government functions, give more space to individual initiative and streamline
administrative decision-making. Consequently, in addition to the dilapidated state of public
administration, administrative and civil service procedures in Lebanon no longer fit the
requirements of a modem state. The present state of public administration is reflected in the
following problems:
(a)   In 1994 there were about 110,000 people on the government payroll absorbing about
one-third of central government revenues. Of these, about 60,000 were military and
security personnel (40,000 in the Army, 13,000 in the Ministry of Interior and 7,000
General Security), 29,000 teachers, 3,000 contractual workers and 11,000 daily
workers (of whom, respectively, 1,685 and 6,719 worked in the central administration
and the remainder in local government and autonomous public agencies). The civil
administration proper has 20,860 posts but only 7,418 are currently filled. (Table 1).
Thus, while the 50,000 civilian employees account for about 1.6% of the population
(which is about the norm for middle-income countries), permanent non-teaching
personnel, amounting to only 0.2% of the population, are grossly inadequate.
(b)    At the end of the war, about 60 percent of the management and mid-level posts
(grades I, II, III) were vacant. Since then, due to the Government recruitment effort,
management positions (grade I) have been filled in most ministries. 283 out of 506
positions are vacant at grade II but 250 civil servants in grade III already meet the
requisite criteria for promotion. The most serious problem, therefore, is posed by the
large number of vacancies (1656) at grade III. The Civil Service Board (CSB) faces
difficulties in filling vacant posts at that grade, in part because of inadequate salaries
and in part because of the recruitment requirements. According to civil service rules,
recruitment at higher levels is based on internal promotion and examination. Few
low level civil servants are able to pass the required examination to be promoted, and
few outsiders are interested in participating in the recruitment process. The largest
vacancies (11,494) are at the lower level (grades IV and V), but many positions are
expected to be eliminated as a result of the current job classification review.
(c)    The number of daily workers has increased to 6,719 in the past few years in the core
administrative agencies and line ministries and, as noted, there are 1,685 contractual
workers. Together, they exceed the number of permanent civil servants in the central
government. In the Ministry of Health, for example, there are 1,490 daily workers
and only 230 permanent employees. Daily workers were hired on an ad hoc and
personal basis by the ministries, and are generally unqualified for their current
employment. The Civil Service Board tried to integrate them in the civil service
through legal recruitment procedures, but only 47 out of 1,000 passed the required
examination. Albeit gradually, retrenchment of the vast majority of daily workers is
essential to free up some of the resources needed for recruitment of qualified



permanent civil servants. By a preliminary estimate, this would permit almost
doubling the present number of permanent employees, at current salaries, without
increasing the overall wage bill.
Table 1. The Lebanese Civil Service, May 1995
Daily    Contract
Permanent Posifions                                                Workers       uals
Grade I          Grade 11         Grade IH          GradeIV           Grade V          GradesI-V
Total   Vacant  Total  Vacant  Total  Vacant  Total   Vacant  Total  Vacant  Total  Vacant
Core Administrative Agencies
Central Adm. forStatistics             1        0       30       28       72      68      130       76       21       20      254      192        0
CentralDisciplinaryBoard               3        0        1        0        2        2      15        8        2        2       23       12        0         0
Central Inspection Board              12        0       17        6       95      21       55       23       29       26      208       76       49         3
CivilServiceBoard                      3        0       11        0      27         7      45       23       13       13       99       43       13         5
(IncL NatL Inst for Admin.& Dev.)                                                                                               0        0
Govt AccountingOfrice                  0        0        0        0       81      36       46       29       11       11      138       76
Mibistries
DirectorLte General,PCM                6        2       13        5       37       25      76       50       25       22      157      104                  7
Environment                            1        0        3        3       64       62      49       46       22       22      139      133                 24
Economy&Trade                          2        0        8        7       26       19     164      109       34       30      234      165      249         4
Hydraulic &ElectricRes.                2        0       18        3      152       72     287      175       33       24      492      274       73        42
Industry&Petroleum                     2        0        6        2       44       30      51       32       15       15      118       79        1         0
Agriculture                            1        0       26       26     256      171      417      243      211      202      911      642      753        50
Emigrants                              1        0        4        2       39       37       0        0       10       10       54       49
Finance                                6        0       73       17     417      155    1.933    1.109      126       95   2,555    1,376
Interior                               9        1       28       19       72       27     448      265       59       55      616      367    1,028        61
Justice                                 1       0       37       29     233       133   2,002    1,501      220      195   2,493    1,858        32       325
Municipal & Rural affairs               1       0        4        1        0        0       0        0        2        2        7        3        4         2
SocialAffairs                          I        0       16        2     208      186      206       90       23       20      454      298
Public Health                          I        0       23       21      127      42      404      284      190      168      745      515    1,490       747
Posts & Telecom.                       3        2       32       28     536      188   6.426    4,098       660      652   7,657    4,968    2,293         96
Public Works                           2        0       19        7      142      42      405      268       64       55      632      372       IS
Tourism                                1        0        7        4       28      20      114       70       16       14      166      10S
Transportation                         2        0       17       17      158      77      704      446      138      125    1,019      665      138         6
NationalEducation                      2        0       15        4       51      37      131      116       22       22      221      179       38        30
Housing                                2        0        7        6       53      36      109       66       20       20      191      128       30        28
Labor                                  I        0        2        0       67      35       57       30       18       16      145       81       35         1
Foreign Affairs                       69        4       72       36      139      39      112       52       55       46      447      177        7       41
Culture&HigherEduc.                    2        0        7        6      20        19      33       21        6        3       68       49      410         8
Vocational&Tech.Educ.                  I        0        5        0       19       10      23        6       48       39       96       55
Information                             1       0        5        4       69      60      413      305       33       29      521      398       61         5
Displaced Persons                                                                                                                                         200
139        9     506      283    3,234    1,656  14,855   9,541    2,126   1,953  20,860  13,442    6,719    1,685
Source: CSB
(d)    The prevailing salaries, however, are too low to attract qualified local professionals,
let alone the Lebanese living abroad (Table 2). Compensation is distorted and badly
inadequate (especially at the higher and middle levels). There are more than 240
different allowances, which add up to between 20% to 50% of the base salary. One
person can receive up to 15 different allowances. In addition, the reward system is
greatly distorted: a length-of-service provision means that some drivers, for example,
receive more than department directors. Currently, top civil servants average about
$9,000 a year (including allowances) in an environment in which managers in the
private sector are compensated at much higher rates. Civil servants at mid-level get
about $4,500 a year (including allowances.) The relatively high number of contract
employees is in part a reaction to this situation, and should be seen as a useful



transitional device--provided that the staffing and salary structure is rationalized
soon.
Table 2. Civil Service Pay Scale, May 1995
(Monthly Salaries in thousands of Lebanese Pounds)
Grade     Basic Salanj     Allowances Allowances  Salary &  Representation   Total
in % (1)    in LL (^ Allowances
I  At Appointment  480      50%        240       720       327         1,047
Average         570     50%         285      855        327        1,182
11  At Appointment  400     50%         200      600         0           600
Average         480     50%         240      720         0           720
III At Appointment  325     40%         130      455         0           455
Average         400     50%         200      600         0           600
IV-1 At Appointment  260     25%          65      325         0           325
Average         325     25%         125      406         0           406
IV-2 At Appointment  200     25%          50      250         0           250
Average         260     25%          65      325         0           325
V  At Appointment  200      20%         40       240         0           240
Average         273     20%          54      327         0           327
() Estimated aggregate of individual allowances.
Sourir: CSB
(e)     The civil service is aging (with an average age of 54) and insufficiently trained.
During the war years, training programs virtually ceased to exist. The National
Institute for Administration and Development stopped offering pre- and in-service
training. As a result, civil servants were cut off from knowledge of changing
international practices in their fields of activity, and introduction of modern training
methods was delayed. Moreover, according to Lebanese civil service rules, training is
a necessary condition for promotion inside the administration. Thus, promotions
virtually stopped for 15 years.
(0      Adequate office space is usually not available. As a result of the extensive damage
that has occurred, many buildings require considerable repair and rehabilitation.
The available equipment is minimal, out of date or in need of major repair.
2.      Because of these widespread weaknesses and the pervasive shortage of human and
material resources, the Government is unable to deliver public services and carry out basic
functions satisfactorily, let alone address the challenge of reconstruction (which has been
entrusted largely to the Council for Development and Reconstruction--CDR). The rebuilding
of Lebanon's ravaged economy and addressing social problems is taking place through the
$2.3 billion National Emergency Recovery Program (NERP) during 1993-1996, and a more
ambitious longer-term program (Plan/Horizon 2000). To implement the recovery effort and
make the reconstruction investments sustainable, the capacity of the administration needs to
be rebuilt. In the absence of a functioning public administration, the implementation of the
NERP will be increasingly hampered and the sustainability of its results jeopardized.



- 4 -
IL The National Administrative Rehabilitation Program (NARP)
3.     Government Strategy and Policy Reform Agenda.  Administrative reform has been a
subject for reflection and debate in Lebanon since 1990. The Government is conscious of the
right directions, clear about the policy priorities, and has already begun to move in several
practical ways. It recognizes that an efficient administration, as well as the development of
a sound legal and regulatory environment, are essential for attracting domestic and foreign
private investment and for successful reconstruction and recovery. The Government's overall
objective is a lean and efficient civil service able to provide basic services to the economic
agents and citizens, in line with the Lebanese tradition of a predominant private sector.
Details on the administrative reform program are included in para. 9 of the Memorandum of
the President.
4.     Through 1994, certain ad hoc measures were implemented as the first steps of
administrative rehabilitation, and some external assistance was obtained for those purposes
(primarily from the European Union and from the World Bank through the 1994 Revenue
Enhancement Project). Beyond these initial steps, the Government has completed in May
1995 a comprehensive program to fill the basic administrative needs of each ministry and
agency--the National Administrative Rehabilitation Program (NARP).'
5.      The program was designed under the leadership of the Minister of State for
Administrative Reform. A team of Lebanese and international consultants, funded by
UNDP and the French Government, carried out a series of needs' assessments in cooperation
with the ministries. Initially, each ministry was responsible for its own basic needs
assessment, conducted by reviewing the existing organization and staffing, assessing
objectives and strategy, and defining priorities and immediate basic needs in terms of
personnel, equipment, computers, training, and technical assistance. The Office of the
Minister of State, which is assisted by two entities established to support it in the process of
administrative rehabilitation and reform (the Technical Cooperation Unit--TCU--and the
Institutional Development Unit--IDU), has reviewed these assessments and finalized the
program, and is responsible for coordinating financing and guiding its implementation.
6.     For each ministry, core administrative agencies and public autonomous agencies, the
NARP comprises basic office equipment, furniture and vehicles; information technology to
modernize work methods and introduce enhanced systems in priority public functions;
training; and advisory services. The program, which is to be implemented over a 3-5 year
period, calls for a total of $106 million, including $81 million for assistance to individual
agencies and ministries. Of the latter, $14 million (18%) are for information technology and
other equipment, $19 million (24%) for furniture and vehicles, $17 million (21%) for training
and $31 million (40%) for advisory services. (Details are provided in Attachment 2.)
1 Requirements in the NARP are additional to assistance already received by ministries and agencies from
international organizations and regional and bilateral donors, for or related to administrative rehabilitation and
reform. To date, the Civil Service Board (CSB) and other central agencies, induding the Central Administration of
Statistics (CAS) and the National Institutue for Admrinistrative Development (NIAD), have received or been
assured of a total of US$4.5 million for equipment, training and TA, and 12 ministries have also received support.
The largest amount of aid has been the 30 million Ecu (about $40 million equivalent) from the EU, for institutional
support to CDR and ministries responsible for the implementation of major investments under the National
Economnic Recovery Programn these funds are admrinistered by the CDR. The largest contribution to a single
entity is that of the Bank, to support the Ministry of Finance through the 1994 Revenue Enhancement and Fiscal
Management ProjecL Some support has been given to various other ministries by the UNDP, the Bank, and
regional and bilateral donors. The NARP is a broader and coordinated program than those initial efforts.



- 5 -
7.     The NARP includes the following:
(a)    Information technology support, which includes hardware, software, systems and
related services for each agency and ministry. Ministries and agencies have very
little of the equipment now regarded as standard for basic office functioning.
Accordingly, the NARP includes provision, for the central and regional administrative
offices of each agency and ministry, of:
(i)   office technology, including microcomputers, basic software and related
services to initiate the modernization of work and methods throughout the
public administration;
(ii)  informatics support, that includes other software, systems and services, aimed
at improving the basic functions of the core administrative agencies and
selected ministries in order to enhance public service delivery and support
private sector development; and
(iii)  training directly related to information technology and informatics support.
Instruction in basic computer use is directly related to computerization, and
essential for all ministries and agencies if the program is to achieve its
objectives.
(b)    Other office equipment:
(i)   communications equipment--phone systems, and facsimile; and
(ii)   other office equipment--typewriters, copiers, calculators, and some specialized
equipment (e.g. filing systems).
(c)    Basic office furniture--desks, chairs, shelving, safes, etc.
(d)    Vehicles, both standard and 4WD, in accordance with specific requirements of
individual ministries and agencies;
(e)    Training. The requests for training are summarized in Table 4. After many years
during which training programs virtually ceased to exist and the introduction of
modem training methods was impossible, the needs for general administrative
training within Lebanon are enormous. The program includes a provision for in-
service training programs, to be developed by the CSB and NIAD, and overseas
training. Overseas training provision is principally for the CI, which especially
needs external training to exercise its inspection and organizational consulting
functions in line with modern practices. The largest category in the training program
is for technical and special training both in Lebanon and abroad. Within Lebanon it
includes several large programs such as those for CI (1476 trainee weeks) and the
Ministries of Municipal and Rural Affairs (1435), Public Health (614) and Finance
(576). Training abroad is requested by 19 ministries and agencies in amounts ranging
from 10 to 316 trainee/weeks.
(f)    Advisory services. The NARP includes a comprehensive range of services to assist
ministries and agencies develop their capacity for more effective management. The
NARP calls for US$30.5 million of advisory services. They include services to help
build up the capacity of CSB, CI, CA, NIAD and CAS to become fully effective agents
of administrative reform, but the bulk of the advisory services is for the line



- 6 -
ministries. (Some of these ministries are already receiving assistance from external
agencies.)
8.     Training requests in the NARP are heterogeneous and at different stages of
preparation. Moreover, training decisions must be synchronous with the on-going review of
the mandates of the different ministries--see para. 18(i)-- and of course, with the pace of
rebuilding of the permanent civil service. Therefore, only training related to information
technology is included in the proposed project. However, the Government intends,
beginning in the near future, to use its own funds or other donor assistance to finance other
training and technical assistance proposals from ministries and agencies on a first-come-first-
served basis. The Office of the Minister will have the capacity to assist ministries to prepare
the proposals, which would be evaluated on the basis of a number of criteria, including:
(i) importance for the ministry and link to its main mandate; (ii) impact on service delivery
and social development; (iii) relevance for simplification of procedures; (iv) consistency with
projects under way; (v) cost effectiveness; and (vi) the ministry's capacity to absorb and
benefit from the training proposed. The Government understands the importance of assuring
that funding decisions are made, and are seen to be made, on the basis of the merits of the
proposals. The Government has requested the Bank's continuing and close involvement in
all phases of the administrative reform. Because of the importance of the training element in
the overall rehabilitation and reform program, the Bank's involvement will include attention
to the progress of training activities.
Ill. Project Objective
9.     The objective of the proposed project is to help rehabilitate the public administration.
The Government clearly understands rehabilitation as the essential first stage of a process of
reform, based on a concrete policy agenda centered on the principle of a small but efficient
public administration dedicated to providing quality services, enabling private activity, and
safeguarding the interests of the public. Consequently, the Project also aims at assisting the
design of administrative reform.
IV. Project Description
10.     The focus is on filling the minimum needs of the central government administration
in key equipment and physical resources; assisting in streamlining procedures; and
supporting the design and beginning of longer-term public administration and civil service
reform. (The matrix of project activities and implementation schedule is included in the
Supplementary Implementation Document.)
11.    The Project has been designed in the overall context of the Government's NARP.
Within the NARP, the Project would finance all information technology and office equipment
for the core administrative agencies and ministries. In addition, it will finance a civil service
census and assistance to administrative reform through studies and workshops, and project
and program implementation. The Project will comprise:
Civil Service Census (estimated cost: $0.8 million)
12.    A good civil service census is a pre-requisite of the reform process. It establishes the
information base crucial to making changes in public employment and pay policy. The



- 7 -
objectives of the census are, first, to identify and remove from the payroll "ghost" employees
and correct other irregularities, and, second, to update and improve personnel data. The
census will cover all remunerated personnel of the central government, including teachers,
daily and contractual employees. The methodology required for a thorough and reliable
census entails the distribution of a questionnaire individually to all employees, its
completion, data entry and a variety of cross-checks through the programmed system. When
irregularities are either explained or confirmed, the corresponding names are either included
in the census or excluded and listed in a separate "irregularity report" for appropriate later
action, from removal from the payroll to criminal penalties. The complete database with
appropriate summary tables and the accompanying irregularity report constitute the census.
13.   Such an exercise is already under way for non-teaching personnel (see below), and a
parallel census of teachers and other educational personnel is under preparation. It is
essential, as explained below, for the two exercises to contain a fully compatible basic
module (although the education database will be larger to meet additional needs of the
education sector).
14.   This component will finance computers, consultants, information technology and
informatics support to carry out the census. As noted, a civil service database exercise with
assistance from the State University of New York at Albany, funded by USAID, has already
begun in the CSB. The methodology is sound, and the activity is well under way.
Additional resources are needed--on identical lines as the on-going exercise--to enable the
CSB to complete the database in a shorter period. Because the current CSB activity does not
include teachers or other personnel of the Ministry of Education, assistance will also be
provided through the project to carry out a census of educational personnel with a basic
module fully compatible with the on-going CSB activity. Therefore, on completion, the two
partial databases can be merged into a complete database covering all central government
remunerated employees--permanent, daily workers, and contractuals. The complete census,
merging the two databases, will be completed by June 1996.
15.   As the next phase, after completion of the census, the database will be verified
against the Ministry of Finance payroll. The intention would be to proceed as follows.
Discrepancies arising from inconsistent or incorrect procedures will be corrected internally.
Payments to the remaining payroll names not corresponding to names in the database will be
suspended immediately. Public announcements will be made for those involved to present
themselves in person to specified localities to verify their identity and correct terms of
employment. On verification, salaries will immediately resume and retroactive payments be
made. After six months, still remaining names will be removed from the payroll. Thereafter,
it is essential to strengthen personnel and payroll management to prevent the reoccurrence of
the problem.
16.   The non-teachers census will be conducted under supervision of the CSB. In parallel,
the census of educational personnel will be conducted by the Center for Education Research
and Development of the Ministry of Education (CERD) which should coordinate closely with
the CSB in this respect, and assure full compatibility of the basic personnel data.
Arrangements have been made to finance the census activities before loan effectiveness, and
retroactive financing will be available for this purpose after loan effectiveness.



Assistance to Administrative Reform (estimated cost: $2.1 million)
17.   National Conunittee on Administrative Reform. To assist the process of long-term
administrative reform, the Government has appointed a National Committee on
Administrative Reform (NCAR) for a period coinciding with the planned program and
project implementation period, i.e., until December 1998. The committee is chaired by the
Prime Minister or his designate and has the Minister of State for Administrative Reform as
deputy chairman. The size and membership of this committee will be established by
resolution of the Prime Minister upon recommendation of the Minister of State for
Administrative Reform and will have broad representation from the Council of Ministers,
civil service, academia and the private sector. The NCAR will be strictly an advisory
committee acting as a sounding board for such issues as the chairman or his designate may
from time to time refer to it.
A. Studies (estimated cost: $1.2 million)
18.   To assist in the design of administrative reform, the Project will finance the following
studies and reviews, which will include appropriate recommendations (detailed terms of
reference are in the Supplementary Implementation Document):
(i) a comprehensive review of the functions and mandates of all ministries, with the
objectives of streamlining public service functions, eliminating duplication and overlaps
between different entities, ensuring clear definition, transparent and efficient execution of
mandates as well as efficient programming, and examining possibilities for decentralization
or private sector participation. The Office of the Minister of State is already conducting a
study on the ministries' functions and structure under a PHRD grant. An additional $250,000
is required to complete this study by end-1996 with a thorough review of the mandates;
(ii) a comprehensive review of the Cl's, CDB's and CSB's roles and of all civil service
regulations on recruitment, retention, evaluation, promotion, mobility, retirement and
discipline, to retain essential safeguards of quality and merit and the integrity of a national
civil service on a unified basis, while achieving a major simplification and streamlining of
procedures and processes (especially for recruitment), more autonomy for line ministries in
the management of their human resources, and efficient methods to enhance productivity
and morale and fight corruption. The estimated cost is $550,000. The review will be
completed by end-1996;
(iii) the salary scale currently pending adoption is temporary. A new salary scale is
being defined in conjunction with the completion of the job classification review. The
Project will finance a survey of private sector salaries to provide the Government with
appropriate comparisons. The estimated cost is $200,000. The review will be completed by
mid-1996;
(iv) a review of control and audit procedures. The Government intends to set
national standards for audits, using professional accounting firms in Lebanon to carry out
most of financial audits under contracts with the Court of Accounts (CA), and drastically
reducing or eliminating CA's ex-ante controls, which are inefficient and prevent this
institution from carrying-out its main responsibility of robust and prompt ex-post audits.
Financial authorities would assume the responsibility of ex-ante financial controls.
Accountability mechanisms would be strengthened sufficiently to permit this reform. The
estimated cost is $200,000. The review will be completed by end-1996;



- 9 -
B. BestPractice Workshops (estimated cost: $0.9 million)
19.   International as well as Lebanese experience demonstrates that a process of
administrative reform can face strong opposition, and is less likely to be sustainable if it is
not designed following a participatory process involving major stakeholders in the society.
Sustainability is all the more precarious if international advisors, even when assisted by local
consultants, carry out their tasks without sufficient consultation with these stakeholders. In
addition, particularly because of the isolation of the Lebanese administration from
international trends during the war years, it is important to provide a mechanism for the
transfer of administrative know-how and "best practice" in other countries. Therefore, the
Project provides for a participatory process linking the studies described above with a series
of "best practice" workshops, which will aim at disseminating international experience on
administrative reform, as well as increasing awareness of the constraints to be faced. They
also aim at building consensus on the objectives of the reforms and, on the other hand, will
help the consultants understand the wishes and sensitivities of the Lebanese society as
regards the reform.
20.    The process will be as follows. (The detailed description, schedule, budget and
agendas of the workshops are in the Supplementary Implementation Document.) An
Initiating Workshop will be organized in late 1995, with participants including
representatives of core administrative agencies, members of Parliament, representatives of
local governments, the private sector (business associations, chambers of commerce, trade
unions), relevant NGOs, and academics, for a general discussion geared to the issues
covered in the administrative reform studies. In this first workshop, three working groups
will discuss, respectively, civil service reform, public accountability and control systems, and
the role of the state in its main sectors of activity and appropriate government structures.
International experts will summarize international experience in these fields and participants
will contribute their knowledge of the Lebanese situation. The consultants working on the
administrative reform studies will attend the meetings. (Their terms of reference require
them to take into account the discussions of the first workshop and to keep consulting
informally with major stakeholders at different stages of their work.) After completion of
each study, the working groups will meet again in subsequent workshops, examine the
consultants' conclusions and proposals, and express comments and conclusions. These
comments and conclusions, along with the consultants' studies, will serve the Minister of
State for Administrative Reform as useful material to help formulate the specific reform
proposals for Government consideration. Three other workshops would be held to cover
information technology issues, as well as ethics and corruption in the civil service and
public/private partnership in the provision of public services.
21.    The Office of the Minister of State will design and organize the workshops. The
TCU will be in charge of all administrative arrangements. The IDU will design the
workshops' agenda and supervise the publication of the findings from each of the workshop.
Assistance from the World Bank's Economic Development Institute could be considered, if
requested.
Information Technology (estimated base cost: $16.8 m illion)
22.    The Lebanese public administration suffers from lack of basic information technology
(IT), essential for operational activities today. The Project supports the introduction and use
of information technology taking into account the current absorptive capacity of the public
administration and incorporating capacity-building element. While office technology will be



- 10 -
provided throughout the central government, as envisaged in the NARP, it will be deployed
in accordance with appraised individual ministries' needs, and coupled with appropriate
recruitment and training of technical staff and users alike to assure that the technology is
sustainable and put to good use. In addition, core administrative agencies and selected
ministries will be provided with more substantive informatics support in view of their
priority functions, judged to be essential for private sector development and the provision of
adequate public services, and their present capacity to absorb more substantial support.
Technology support for these selected agencies will be coordinated with functions
redefinition when needed, as well as process simplification and improvement.
23.    There will be three sub-components as shown in Attachment 3:
(a)    Government-wide informatics coordination to establish: (i) inter-agency coordination
for information technology awareness and deployment, including definition of
government standards for data exchange and transmission; delivery of awareness
seminars at all levels of public administration; and coordination of training programs
across agencies; (ii) a technical unit within the TCU (with 5 staff) to complement
individual ministries' internal capabilities; and recruitment of counterpart staff across
beneficiary agencies and ministries to help individual ministries in developing their
own internal capabilities and assist in technology transfer ($3.8 million);
(b)    office technology support to all 24 ministries and core agencies to initiate the
modernization of work methods (see Attachment 3 for details). This will include
providing hardware and software, and training in basic office technology and
network administration, and recruiting information technology support personnel
(about 2 per ministry and agency) for the acquisition, installation, and support of
these technologies across the public administration ($6.3 million);
(c)    information/decision support systems to core agencies and selected ministries for
priority public functions ($6.7 million). All ministries receiving sufficient funds from
other sources as well as those for which Bank projects with an IT component are
under preparation have been excluded from assistance under this component.
Selection from the remaining ministries was made on the basis of the importance of
their services for the rest of the public administration, their role in facilitating private
sector development, the need to bring on-going programs to completion and the
importance for the public of the services they provide. Assistance under the sub-
component has been designed to reinforce the reform and simplification of functions
and procedures being examined by the administrative reform studies described
above.
24.    Under the IT component, approximately 900 people will be trained in office
technology and information system development and installation, of whom 750 trained in MS
Office and office software. The total cost of training is included in the overall estimation.
The IT component will be implemented directly by the beneficiary agencies in coordination
with the IT Group (ITG) in the Office of the Minister of State for Administrative Reform. The
ITG will prepare technical specifications and procurement documentation, with the assistance
of the designated focal counterpart staff in beneficiary agencies as needed; assure overall
coordination of the different activities of the component; assist individual agencies in the
installation and commissioning of computer hardware, technology training and systems
development; and coordinate with agency and ministry counterpart staff in the deployment
and utilization of the technology in their respective agencies and ministries.



- 11 -
Office Equipment (estimated cost: $2.3 million)
25.   The Project will provide $2.3 million (excluding taxes and contingencies) for office
equipment not related to information technology, to all ministries and central agencies. This
includes communication equipment, such as telephone, telephone systems, facsimile; and
other office equipment, typewriters, copiers, calculators, and some specialized equipment
(e.g., filing systems), based on the appraisal of individual ministry needs for minimum
efficient operation. (Detailed allocation by ministry is shown in the Supplementary
Implementation Document.)
Project and Program Implementation Support (estimated cost: $4.5 million)
26.   Considering the diversity of the activities required for administrative rehabilitation
and the importance of implementation, the Government has recognized the need for a
mechanism to program and coordinate all efforts. The Technical Cooperation Unit (TCU)
was established with a UNDP grant of $700,000 in 1994 and became operational in January
1995. Its functions are to help manage and coordinate all the technical assistance associated
with the rehabilitation of public administration, monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of
such TA, and mobilize the required resources. The TCU mandate and staff will be expanded
to meet the requirements for Project implementation, at an incremental cost of $3.5 million
over the life of the Project. The Institutional Development Unit (IDU) supports the on-going
process of reform of the Lebanese administration. It is financed by a $0.5 million grant from
UNDP and another $0.5 million grant from Canada, under agreements signed in February
1995. IDU's $1 million costs over the implementation period are fully funded by these
grants.
27.   The Project and Program Implementation Support Team, which will assist the TCU in
the execution of the Project, will include: (i) an Information Technology Group, headed by
an IT coordinator and comprising a project manager, two systems specialists and five office
technology staff; (ii) a Procurement Specialist, to assist in all procurement matters, in
cooperation with CDR; (iii) a Financial Officer to assist in all disbursement matters, in
cooperation with CDR, as well as to assist in accounting under the Project and advise on
matters concerning the Bank and other donors' financial reporting requirements, in
consultation with the ministries concerned; (iv) a Training Specialist; and (v) an
Organizational Management Specialist. Key staff for implementation of the Project are the IT
Coordinator, the Procurement Specialist, and the Financial Officer. Terms of reference,
budget, and organizational architecture are shown in the Supplementary Implementation
Document. In addition, the TCU will benefit from ad hoc short-term consulting services on
an as needed basis (24 months in total).
28.    Appointment of all key persons in the project implementation support team has been
made. Arrangements have been made to finance the implementation support team services
before the loan is declared effective, and some retroactive financing will be available for this
purpose. After loan effectiveness, these services will be financed under the Project. The
Government has certified that beneficiary ministries and agencies have assigned from among
their own staff a coordinator for Project activities. Additional counterpart staff will be
appointed following loan approval, the entire team should be fully staffed by January 1996,
and an action plan to build further capacity in the beneficiary ministries will be implemented
during the Project, with facilitation provided by the TCU.



- 12 -
V. Project Cost and Financing
29.    The total Project cost is estimated at $29.5 million (including $1.7 million in taxes and
$1.3 million in physical and price contingencies)2, of which $20.9 million, or 71%, are foreign
costs. Local costs have been converted at an exchange rate of $1 = LL 1,650. The estimates
are based on typical current costs. Within the Project, the Bank loan of $20 million will
finance $13.5 million for information technology, $2.3 million for office equipment, $0.8
million for the census, $1.7 for assistance to administrative reform, and a $0.5 million
contribution for project implementation, as well as $1.2 for physical and price contingencies.
The Bank loan will cover $18.3 million of foreign cost, or 88% of total foreign cost of the
project. The Government contribution of $8 million will finance largely.the local costs of
information technology and project implementation, and all taxes. Confirmed external
financing includes $1.5 million from UNDP and Canada to contribute to project
implementation costs. Project cost and financing are shown in Schedule A of the
Memorandum of the President.
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ADMINISIRATION
L Implementation
30.    Arrangements for Project hnplementation. The Project will be implemented over a
three-year period in accordance with the principles described in para. 26-28 and the
implementation schedule in Attachment 3. Responsibility for implementation be vested in
the Office of the Minister of State for Administrative Reform, which includes the TCU and
IDU. However, the TCU will require strengthening in the ways indicated in para. 26-28. In
addition, project implementation will call for close coordination with the Ministry of Finance,
CDR and the core administrative agencies, as well as the beneficiary ministries.
31.    The Project incorporates various features designed to ensure that it is implemented
on schedule. Care has been taken to identify the units in the administration that would be
responsible for the various tasks, to break up each component into constituent activities and
to determine the dates by which the individual steps that make up these tasks will be
completed. The detailed implementation plan, and the simplified arrangements proposed for
the recruitment of project staff and the procurement of goods and services, have been clearly
specified and agreed with the Government. In particular, the manner in which procurement
is proposed to be arranged (paras. 34-36) and the support of the proposed financial,
procurement and training specialists will help minimize delays. Above all, the Government's
strong commitment to the Project and the existence of the IDU and the strengthened TCU
should help ensure effective and timely Project implementation.
32.    Work Plans and Review of Progress. Each ministry or agency will prepare and
submit to the TCU annual work plans on its particular activities under the Project and mid-
year reports on the progress, on a uniform format to be provided by TCU. The TCU will
prepare an annual summary work plan and mid-year progress reports and submit them to
2 10% physical contingencies apply to all equipmenL Price contingencies apply to all office equipment other
than information technology, the prices of which are expected to be stable. Office equipment is estirated to be
procured in 1996, and the foreign inflation factor of 2.2% has been applied for one year. Taxes of 15% apply to
information technology and other equipment.



- 13 -
the Bank. The reviews of progress will provide for adjustments according to past
performance and future needs.
33.   Project activities will be launched at a Project Launch Seminar in October 1995. The
Seminar will introduce the project activities to all designated counterparts, and discuss
project issues, in particular procurement, disbursement, and counterpart follow-up. TCU will
design and organize the Launch Seminar. Participants will include the key counterpart staff
designated in each beneficiary agency and ministry.
IL Procurement and Disbursement
34.   In general, the Project approach to procurement will be to bundle as many activities
as possible into single contracts. Because office technology, the largest single sub-component,
will be bundled into one or two contracts, it is expected that the bulk of procurement of
goods under the Project will entail a total of only five or six contracts. In its responsibility
for procurement, the TCU would have the support of the Procurement Specialist to be
appointed under the Project (para. 27)., Except for TCU/IDU appointments to be made by
arrangement with UNDP, all procurement of goods and services under the Project will be
carried out by the CDR which has the authority (utilized in other Bank projects) to undertake
its procurement directly rather than through the Department of Tenders (DOT) of the Central
Inspectorate. The designation of CDR as procurement agent has been confirmed before
Board presentation. A procurement review will be undertaken approximately six months
from effectiveness, i.e., at the time of the first bi-annual supervision mission. (The
Procurement Plan is included in the Supplementary Implementation Document.)
35.   Goods. Goods will be procured under the World Bank's Guidelines. Contracts for
goods for an amount equivalent to $250,000 or more will be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). For items costing $50,000-250,000, international shopping
procedures will apply (with a minimum of three bids from at least three countries) and for
items costing less than $50,000, local shopping procedures will apply with a minimum of
three quotations. As far as possible, items for procurement will be combined into packages
costing $250,000 or more with a limit of $1,500,000 in aggregate for international shopping
and $400,000 for national shopping. All goods contracts for an amount equivalent to or more
than $250,000 for items to be procured under Bank guidelines will be subject to the Bank's
prior review. The review process will cover about 80 percent of the total contract value of
goods.
36.   Consultant Services. Consultant services required for the Project will be procured in
accordance with World Bank Consultant Guidelines. Prior Bank review will include
contracts for services with consultancy firms costing the equivalent of $100,000 or more and
with individual consultants costing $50,000 or more. The participating agencies will receive
the active support and guidance of the Procurement Specialist (para. 26-28). In the selection
of consultants, besides costs, knowledge of the country and its language will be taken into
consideration; it is expected that qualified Lebanese professionals (resident and expatriate)
will be recruited for many positions.
37.   Retroactive Financing. The Government will meet the initial cost of recruitment of
the Project implementation support team prior to loan funds becoming available, from its
own resources or by access to Japan PHRD, and, if necessary, UNDP funds. In addition, the



- 14 -
census activities may be pre-financed prior to loan effectiveness. Therefore, the loan will
provide for $1.0 million in retroactive financing to finance for these purposes.
38.    Disbursement. To ensure that funds are readily available for Project implementation
and to facilitate disbursement, a Special Account will be established at the Central Bank of
Lebanon in US dollars, with an initial deposit of $1.6 million. Replenishment of the Special
Account by the Bank will require the submission of full documentation or certified
statements of expenditures (SOEs) showing that payments were made exclusively for eligible
expenditures. Replenishment requests for the special account must be submitted as required
but at no longer than quarterly intervals.
DI Reporting, Auditing and Supervision
39.    Reporting and Auditing. Each agency will prepare and submit semi-annual financial
reports to the Office of the Minister of State which will prepare an annual report to the Bank.
TCU staff will ensure that there is continuity of Project administration, that all Project
documentation is well prepared and according to schedule and that procedural problems are
reduced to the minimum. The Special Account, all Project accounts and SOEs will be audited
in accordance with international standards at the end of each Bank fiscal year, beginning
with fiscal year 1996, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports will be
made available to the Bank no later than the end of April of the following year.
40.    Supervision PlarL The proposed supervision arrangements are detailed in the
Supplementary Implementation Document, and monitorable indicators are set out in
Attachment 4. The supervision arrangements provide for a Project launch seminar on loan
effectiveness, followed by a bi-annual program of supervision missions timed to coincide
with the Best Practice Workshops and key developments in Project implementation. No later
than eighteen months into implementation there will be a full mid-term review of both the
rehabilitation activities and of progress of the administrative reform (see Attachment 4). The
final supervision mission is tentatively programmed for November 1998.
osring Date
41.   The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998; the closing date would
be June 30, 1999.



- 15 -
Attachment 1
ORGANIZATION OF THE OFFICE OF THE
MINISTER OF STATE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM
MINISTER
Office of the Minister of State for Administrative Reform
IDU Director                            TCU Director
Technical Cooperation Management
Head of    Data Base  Monitoring    Policies
Coordination  Manager       &            &
Evaluation   Procedures
Program/ Project Implementation Team
Information  Organizational   Training   Procure-   Financial
Technology   Management    Specialist    ment       Officer
Coordinator    Specialist               Specialist
|Project|
Manager 
| Analyst (2) |          | Technology
Staff



- 16 -
Attachment 2
THE NATIONAL ADMINISIRATIVE REHABILITATION PROGRAM
($ thousand)*
Com puter6                                    Advisory               Percent of
and      Furniture   Vehicles   Training    Services    Total       Total
Equipm et                                       e-isToa
Core Administrative Agencies
Central Adm. for Statistics                              140          0          0          0          0         140        0.1
Central Disciplinary Board                               200          3          0          0         0".'       203        0.2
Central Inspection Board                                 200          4          0      1,040          6        1,251       1.2
Civil Service Board".                                      0         23         66        641      1,782        2,512       2.4
Natl. Inst. for Admin.& Dev.                               0          0          0        246      1,378        1,624       1.5
Govt. Accounting Office                                  556         45         15        347         0"''       963        0.9
Sub-total       1,096         75         81       2,274      3,166       6,693        6.3
M inistries
Directorate General,PCM                                  484         27         57      1,237      1,105        2,910       2.7
Environment                                               82         10         74         92        854        1,113       1.0
Economy & Trade                                          959         20        114      1,447        706        3,246       3.1
Hydraulic & Electric R...                                275         72        306        630        296        1,579       1.5
Industry & Petroleum                                     535         36         11        147      1,459        2,188       2.1
Agriculture                                               87        237         72         90       2,013       2,498       2.3
Emigrants                                                228          5        270        260        564        1,328       1.2
Finance                                                    0        379          0         21         99         499        0.5
Interior                                               4,042        238      9,676        -83        373      14,246       13.4
justice                                                1,207        521          0       -215        168       1,681        1.6
Municipal & Rural Affairs                                213         61        792      1,106        679        2,851       2.7
Social Affairs                                           198         80        120         79        484         962        0.9
Public Health                                            381         91      1,008        439         0"''     1,918        1.8
Posts & Telecom.                                           0        281      1,105      1,179      2,425        4,990       4.7
Public Works                                             512        184        280      1,045      3,596        5,617       5.3
Tourism                                                  221         42        686        119        297        1,364       1.3
Transportation                                           188         75         50        180      3,081        3,574       3.4
National Education                                     1,682        109        144      3,051      2,765        7,751       7.3
Housing                                                  237         86        190        301      1,082       1,896        1.8
Labor                                                   129          51        225        504        190       1,098        1.0
Foreign Affairs                                          222         32         75        190      1,321       1,839        1.7
Culture & Higher Educ.                                   266        183        106        971        597        2,123       2.0
Vocational & Tech. Educ.                                 166         32         78        199      3,440        3,915       3.7
Information                                              417        127        498      1,566          0        2,609       2.5
Displaced Persons                                          0          0          0          0          0           0        0.0
Subtotal       12,730      2,979     15,938     14,554     27,595      73,796      69.4
Subtotal CoreAgencies and Ministries       13,826       3,054    16,019     16,829      30,761      80,489      75.7
Autonomous Agencies
Executive Council For Major Projects (CGEP)              232          0          0       155         135         522        0.5
Executive CouncilFor Major Projects For Beirut           240         28         46         91          0         405        0.4
NationalSocialSecurity Fund (CNSS)                       232          0          0       175         280         687        0.6
Cooperative Of Government Employees (COOP)               226         35          0       107         158         525        0.5
Electricite Du Liban (EDL)                             1,395        208        865        360      4,876        7,704       7.2
Litani River Authority (LRA)                             878        129        480        458          0       1,945        1.8
National Archive (NAR)                                   289         68          0        216        140         713        0.7
National Employment Agency (NEA)                         123         38          0         68        955        1,183       1.1
OGERO                                                    156          7        115         16         93         387        0.4
Port Of Beirut (POB)                                     357         75      5,354        198        912        6,896       6.5
Railways And Public Transportation Authority           1,649         11        131        42       1,198       3,031        2.8
W ater A uthority Of Beirut (WA B)                       237         10        132      1,290        218        1,887       1.8
Subtotal       6,015        609       7,122     3,175       8,964      25,886      24.3
TOTAL         19,841      3,663     23,141     20,004     39,725     106,374      100.0
PERCENT OF TOTAL             18.7         3.4      21.8       18.8        37.3       100.0
'Not including $20 million for CDR-executed rehabilitation of administrative buildings
Includes Civil Service Census
'-' Included in the Computers and Equipment component
Source: Office of the Minister of Stalefor Adm inistrative Reform



- 17 -
Attachment 3
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACIIVITIES
Objectivel                               Activities                     Estimated
Agency                                                                Cost ($'000)
a) Agency-wide informnatics     Definition of government standards for data         3,800
coordination                    exchange and transmission; and assessment of
priority national information systems.
Conducting of informatics awareness seminars for
public administration.
Coordination of training program across agencies.
Establishment of technical support unit.
Recruitment of 60 technical staff (average 2 T
specialists per agency and ministry)
b) Deployment of office         Provision of computer hardware and software for 24  6,300
technology to modernize basic   ministries and the core agencies.
methods of work in public sector
Development and provision of technology training
for approximately 800 staff.
Recruitment of information technology support
personnel for the acquisition, installation and
coummissioning of office technology hardware and
support.
c) Restoration of basicfunctions
of selected core agencies and
ministries
Civil Service Board     Information technology consultancy and computer      (T)4
equipment for the completion of the Census of Civil
Service Employees; and synchronization of CSB
employee database with MOF payroll system to
identify discrepancies.
Central Inspectorate    Establishment of a computerized system for "case"    200
registration and tracking, and installation of a
computerized Data Archival system.
Central Disciplinary    Automation of "case" compilation and processing      200
Board                   and its linkage to CI system; and establishment of a
computerized Data Archival System.
Central Adninistration    Technical assistance for the development and       140
of Statistics          implementation of informatics training program for
existing technical staff (approximately 10 persons);
acquisition of additional statistical software.
Court of Accounts       Assignment of an information technology expert to    160
help computerize the process of public audit.
3 These staff will be located in IWU; their cost is not reflected in these estimates.
4 Cost induded under the civil service census component.



- 18 -
Attachment 3
Objectivel                             Activities                     Estimated
Agency                                                              Cost ($'000)
Procurement and installation of an automated audit  150
system and the provision of related technical
training.
Establishment of a computerized archive of          60
precedents cases and related literature
Establishment of a reference library open to the    100
public.
Ministry of Justice    Computer equipment for the newly established        160
Judiciary Informatic Center and for the Directorate
of Judicial Inspection.
Analysis and definition of functional requirements  120
of the Master Plan for the computerization of the
priority functions.
Analysis, computerization and training for the      320
Commercial and Legal Register.
Arabized Image Document System.                     55
Establishment of a legal library including provision  200
of computerized information services
Mlinistry of Economy   Consultancy to review trade regulations and data    130
and Trade              gathering and to develop recommendations for
compliance with international forms and data.
Development and implementation of On-line Trade     720
Information Center whereby economic and trade
information is gathered, elaborated and provided to
the public. (Assistance complements on-going work
supported by UJNDP.)
Ministry of Education  Development of students registration and MIS for    500
(in addition to assistance     public schools and systematic synchronization with
included under the civil service    private schools.
census: $300,000)
Exams preparation and results management system.    200
Ministry of Interior   Establishment of car registry and inspection system.  3,000
This will include provision of technical assistance,
software development, computer and related
equipment to establish an efficient car registration
and inspection, which would essentially enable the
decentralization of the system, and its
depersonalization, thus improving efficiency and
reducing corruption.
Others                         Facilities preparation including electrical supplies  300
and cabling.
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                                      1,080
TOTAL, exduding taxes                                                             17,900



- 19 -
Attachment 4
MONITORABLE INDICATORS AND AGENDA FOR THE MIN-TERM REVIEW
Within the overall assessment of the validity of project objectives, design and
financing, in the light of developments since the inception of the project, the following
indicators will be used as a guide for monitoring implementation:
(a)    Monitorable Indicators
Activity                          Indicator                    Timing
A. Civil Service Census           Completion of questionnaires with    October 1995
modules common to CSB and Ministry
of Education
Completion of manual data entry      March 1996
Computerized civil service database  June 1996
established
Database verified against Ministry of  October 1996
Finance payroll
hrregularities removed from payroll  December 1996
B. Assistance to Administrative
Reform
(i) Studies                   Completion on schedule of workplans    January 1996-
and interim and final reports for major   December 1996
studies, in accordance with IORs
(Attachment 3) and workshop review
(ii) Best practice workshops  Launching workshops on established    December 1995-
schedule; maintenance of high-level and   April 1998
wide participation
C Information Technology
Agency-wide information       Information and technology standards    June 1996
coordination                  prepared and published
Agency-wide office technology    Recruitment/appointment of agencies IT  June 1996
(OT) deployment               personnel
Implementarion of IT training program    June 1996-
for approximately 900 staff          December 1997
Simplification and improvement  "Case" tracking systems established and   June 1997
of the transparency of central    computerized; common "case" database
inspection function           is used by CIB and CDB
Establishment of a new and    Design and implementation of a system,  June 1997
inproved public audit function   based on recommendations introduced
under other project components
Promoting private sector      computerization of legal/commercial   December 1997
activities                    registry



- 20 -
Attachment 4
Activity                           Indicator                     Timing
Establishment of Trade         Trade Information Center available to    June 1997
Information Center             and accessed by importers/exporters
Improving management of        Database on teachers complete, accurate  June 1996
educational personnel          and computerized
Preparation/implementation of   Review of Ministry system,           June 1996-
an adequate and decentralized    preparation/specficiation of        December 1996
car registration/inspection    requirements for an efficient and
system                         regionalized registration/inspection
scheme
Implementation of computer-based      June 1997-
registration/inspection procedures    June 1998
(pilot) and regionalization of the above
pilot system (establishment of
regionalized centers)
D. Office Equipment                Timely contract preparation, bidding,  June 1996-
delivery and installation             October 1997
E  Project Implementation          Effective operation of TCU/IDU and    June 1995-
timely reporting                      June 1999
Progress in capacity-building in      June 1995-
participating ministries and agencies  December 1998
Progress in facilitating training     October 1995-
proposals                             December 1998



- 21 -
Attachment 4
(b)    Agenda for the Mid-term Review
Activity                                      Indicator
A. Civil Service Census                Computerized civil service data base established,
validated and verified against MOF payroll.
Irregularities removed from payroll.
B. Assistance to Administration Reform    Completion of reviews of salary scale and of Ministries'
mandates; interim reports on other studies; progress of
staffing in the ministries.
C. Best Practice Workshops             Sustained high level and range of participation in
workshops 2 (information technology), 3 (ethics and
corruption) and 4 (role of the state).
D. Information Technology                 Degree of in-house IT support in the ministries
* Range of participation of staff in office/information
technology training
* Number of agencies equipped with office technology
(OT) and degree of effectiveness of OT use
* Progress in development and implementation of
information systems under the component
E. Office Equipment                    Timely procurement, delivery and installation.
F. Project Implementation               * Effective operation of TCU/IDU at agreed staffing
and consultancy levels
* Appointments, training and retention of project staff
in participating ministries and agencies
* Progress of TCU/IDU in facilitating training
proposals and status of training programs












