Page  1
November 4, 1999
H.E. Dr. Georges Corm 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Beirut, Lebanon
Re: 
Loan No. 3930-LE (Administrative Rehabilitation Project) Amendment 
to the Loan 
Agreement                                     
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement for the above-referenced Project (the Loan 
Agreement) between the Lebanese Republic and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank), dated September 6, 1995, as amended. We also refer to the 
request for further amendments, included in the Project Summary and Action Plan as 
agreed between the Bank and the Ministry of Administrative Reform dated July 16, 1999.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank, after due consideration, has acceded 
to the above request. Accordingly, the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.
Article II:  The Loan
(i)
Section 2.02(b) is amended to read as follows: “(b) The Borrower 
may open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account for the 
purposes of Parts A and 
B of the Project (“Special Account A/B”) and a 
separate special deposit 
account for Part C of the Project 
(“Special Account C”), in its Central Bank 
on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, each 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.”
(ii)
Section 2.08 is amended to read as follows: “2.08. MSAR is hereby 
designated 
as the representative of the Borrower in respect of Parts A 
and B of the 
Project for the purpose of taking any action required 
or permitted to be 
taken, respectively, under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement 
and Article V of the General 
Conditions.”
2.
Schedule 1:  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan (i)
The table set forth 
in paragraph 1 thereof is amended to read as stated in the Annex to this letter.
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
   United States Dollar
  to be
Category
Equivalent)
 Financed
(1)
Goods and related
services
and training:
(a)
under Part A
   11,000,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 85%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
Page  2
(b)
under Part C
      300,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 85%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2)
Consultants'
services and
training:
(a)
Under Part
   1,100,000
100%
B (1) of the
Project
(b)
Under Part 
     750,000
100% of foreign
B (2) (i) of the
expenditures
Project
(c)
Under Part 
     500,000
100%
B (2) (ii) of the
Project
(d)
Under Part C
   2,700,000
100%
of the Project
(3)
Implementation
     500,000
100%
expenditures for
Parts A and B
(4)
Implementation
     250,000
100%
expenditures for Parts C
(5)
Unallocated
   2,900,000
TOTAL
  20,000,000
3.
Schedule 2:  Description of the Project
Part C is added thereto to read as follows:
“Part C:
Support, including the provision of Consultant Services and goods, to: 
(i) the 
privatization unit and the economic policy unit at the Ministry of 
Economy, (ii) the policy 
planning and regulatory unit at the Ministry of 
Transportation, (iii) the decision support 
unit at the Prime Minister’s Office and 
(iv) the unit responsible for restructuring at the 
Ministry of Finance.”
4.
Schedule 5:  Implementation Program
(i)
Paragraph 1(a) thereof is amended to read as follows:
“1.
Part A and B of the Project shall be carried out by MSAR and Part 
C of the 
Project shall be carried out by the Ministry of Finance. 
Overall responsibility for 
carrying out the Project shall be assigned by 
the Borrower to its MSAR. For this 
purpose, the Borrower shall 
ensure that MSAR shall:
(a)
continue to maintain, for the purposes of the Project: (i) an 
office with 
resources and staff whose qualifications and terms of 
reference are acceptable to the 
Bank, to be responsible for the coordination 
Page  3
and supervision of the carrying out of 
Parts A and B of the Project including 
the procurement of goods and services 
thereunder; and (ii) the National 
Committee on Administrative Reform (NCAR) 
established by the 
borrower to advise MSAR on administrative reform activities 
including those in Part B(2) (i) and (ii) of the Project. The Committee, chaired by 
the Prime Minister, shall include in its membership, and upon recommendation to 
the 
Prime Minister by MSAR as its deputy-chairman, representatives from the 
Council of 
Ministers, the civil service, academia and the private sector; 
and”
5.
Schedule 6:  Special Account
The Schedule shall be amended to read as follows:
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” with respect to Special Account A/B, means 
Categories 1(a), 2(a), (b) and (c) and 3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and with respect to Special Account C, means Categories 
1(b) and 2(d) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$1,000,000 in respect of the Special Account A/B and an amount equivalent to 
US$600,000 in respect of the Special Account C, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the respective Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
Page  4
have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing, dating and 
returning to us the form of confirmation in the enclosed copy of this letter. This 
Amendment shall be deemed effective as of July 16, 1999.
Sincerely,
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder Sud
Country Director
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Georges Corm             
       Authorized Representative
Date:
November 15, 1999       
