Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3930 LE
                              Loan Agreement
                  (Administrative Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                             LEBANESE REPUBLIC
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated September 6, 1995
                                                         Loan No. 3930-LE
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated  September 6, 1995, between LEBANESE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is
          not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
          services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for
          the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or
          for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to
          the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision
          of the United Nations Security Council taken under
          Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
    (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
    "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
          under which any further withdrawals under the
          Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions
          of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
          Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a)   "CDR" means the Council for Development and
Reconstruction, a public authority established and operating
pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 5 of the Borrower, dated
January 31, 1977, as the same may be amended from time to time;
    (b)   "MSAR" means the Minister of State for Administrative
Reform of the Borrower;
    (c)   "The Office of MSAR" means the Technical Cooperation
Unit (TCU) established pursuant to the Project Agreement, dated
May 1994, between the Borrower and the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), and the Institutional Development
Unit (IDU) established pursuant to the Project Agreement, dated
December 1994, between the Borrower and UNDP;
    (d)   "National Administrative Rehabilitation Program" or
"NARP" means a program launched by the Borrower in May 1995, to
fill the basic administrative needs of each ministry and
agency, and address certain key system-wide administrative
priorities;
    (e)   "Administrative Reform Program" means the program of
objectives, policies, and actions, adopted by the Borrower on
June 27, 1995, designed to reform and modernize the Borrower's
public administration;
    (f)   "National Committee on Administrative Reform" or "NCAR"
means the committee established pursuant to Prime Ministerial
Resolution No.40/95, dated July 12, 1995, to advise MSAR on the
process of administrative rehabilitation and long-term reform
in Lebanon;
    (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
    (h)   "Central Bank" means Banque du Liban, the Borrower's
central bank, established and operating pursuant to the Money
and Credit Law promulgated by Decree No. 13513 of the Borrower,
dated August 1, 1963, as the same may be amended from time to
time.
Page  3
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of twenty million dollars
($20,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)        "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                       ending on the date immediately preceding
                       each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                       Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                       Period in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)        "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                       cost, as reasonably determined by the Bank
                       and expressed as a percentage per annum, of
                       the outstanding borrowings of the Bank
                       drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                       such borrowings or portions thereof as the
                       Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
                       investments; and (B) loans which may be
                       made by the Bank after July 1, 1989,
                       bearing interest rates determined otherwise
                       than as provided in paragraph (a) of this
                       Section.
Page  4
          (iii)        "Semester" means the first six (6) months
                       or the second six months of a calendar
                       year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six (6) months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and
(c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c)   (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.08. CDR is hereby designated as representative of
the Borrower in respect of the Project for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, economic and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
    (a)   not later than June 30, 1996, complete the census of
central government personnel under Part B (1) of the Project;
    (b)   not later than December 31, 1996, remove from the
payroll system non-existent personnel and correct all other
Page  5
irregularities emerging from the census;
    (c)   not later than December 31, 1996, complete the review
of job classification and grading systems under the Borrower's
National Administrative Rehabilitation Program (NARP);
    (d)   not later than December 31, 1996, complete the review
of the civil service regulations under Part B (2) (i) of the
Project; and
    (e)   not later than June 30, 1997, complete the review of
control and audit procedures under Part B (2) (i) of the
Project.
    Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
    (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
    (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)        have the records and accounts referred to
                       in paragraph (a) of this Section including
                       those for the Special Account for each
                       fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                       appropriate auditing principles
                       consistently applied, by independent
                       auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)        furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                       but in any case not later than nine (9)
                       months after the end of each such year, the
                       report of such audit by said auditors, of
                       such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                       shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)        furnish to the Bank such other information
                       concerning said records and accounts and
                       the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                       time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)        maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                       accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                       Section, records and accounts reflecting
                       such expenditures;
           (ii)        retain, until at least one year after the
Page  6
                       Bank has received the audit report for the
                       fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                       from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                       Special Account was made, all records
                       (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                       receipts and other documents) evidencing
                       such expenditures;
          (iii)        enable the Bank's representatives to
                       examine such records; and
           (iv)        ensure that such records and accounts are
                       included in the annual audit referred to in
                       paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                       of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                       auditors as to whether the statements of
                       expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                       together with the procedures and internal
                       controls involved in their preparation, can be
                       relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
    Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          Ministry of Finance
          Beirut, Lebanese Republic
                                         Telex:
                                         923.235.13
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
          INTBAFRAD                      248423 (RCA)
          Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC)
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                         197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
Page  7
first above written.
                       LEBANESE REPUBLIC
                       By /s/ Nabil El Jisr
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Inder Sud
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                    Dollar              to be
          Category                Equivalent)         Financed
(1)       Goods and related      15,900,000         100% of foreign
          services                                  expenditures,
          and training                              100% of local
          under Part A                              expenditures
          of the Project                            (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 85%
                                                    of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(2)       Consultants'
          services and
          training:
          (a) Under Part         800,000            100%
              B (1) of the
              Project
          (b) Under Part         800,000            100% of foreign
              B (2) (i) of the                      expenditures
              Project
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                    Dollar              to be
          Category                Equivalent)         Financed
          (c) Under Part          900,000           100%
              B (2) (ii) of the
              Project
Page  8
(3)       Implementation           500,000          100%
          expenditures
(4)       Unallocated            1,100,000
          TOTAL                 20,000,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "implementation expenditures" means
expenditures to cover the incremental costs of staff appointed
to the team in the Office of the MSAR for the implementation of
the Project.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000
equivalent, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after May 15, 1995.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for goods under contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent,
$100,000 equivalent for services with firms, and $50,000
equivalent for services with individuals under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
the rehabilitation of its public administration in furtherance
of the Borrower's National Administrative Rehabilitation
Program and Administrative Reform Program.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:
    Carrying out of a program to rehabilitate and modernize
administrative services, through the provision of office
equipment, office technology, information systems, and related
and necessary training and services.
Part B:
    Development and implementation of a program to: (1)
establish a modern database for the civil service based on a
comprehensive census of all civil servants; (2) design and
initiate a long-term strategy for comprehensive public
administration and civil service reform through: (i) the
carrying out of reviews of, inter alia, civil service
regulations, salary levels and structure, mandates and missions
of ministries and core agencies, and control and audit
procedures; and (ii) the organization of workshops for public
and private sector participants, including those involved in
the implementation of Part B (2) (i) above, to facilitate
dissemination of information and consensus building for long-
Page  9
term administrative reforms.
                                   ****
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)
    On each April 1 and October 1              835,000.00
          beginning April 1, 2001
          through April 1, 2012
    And on October 1, 2012                     795,000.00
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
Page  10
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
    Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995, (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.  The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
    (a)   Grouping of contracts
    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent
or more each.
    (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
    The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $1,500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.  National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $400,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Procurement Planning
    Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  11
2.  Prior Review
    With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.  Post Review
    With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be
used.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  Overall responsibility for the carrying out of the Project
shall be assigned by the Borrower to its MSAR. For this
purpose, the Borrower shall ensure that MSAR shall:
    (a)   continue to maintain, for the purposes of the Project:
(i) an office with resources and staff whose qualifications and
terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank, to be
responsible for the coordination and supervision of the
carrying out of the Project including the procurement of goods
and services thereunder; and (ii) the National Committee on
Administrative Reform (NCAR) established by the Borrower to
advise MSAR on administrative reform activities including those
in Parts B (2) (i) and (ii) of the Project. The Committee,
chaired by the Prime Minister, shall include in its membership,
and upon recommendation to the Prime Minister by MSAR as its
deputy-chairman, representatives from the Council of Ministers,
the civil service, academia, and the private sector; and
    (b)   make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for close
coordination in the carrying out of the Project among the
Office of the MSAR, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, CDR,
the core administrative agencies, and other ministries proposed
to benefit under the Project.
Page  12
2.  The Borrower shall:
    (a)   enter, not later than December 15, 1995, into
arrangements with CDR, satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to
which CDR shall be responsible, on behalf of the  Borrower, for
the procurement of goods and services provided under the
Project, including establishing, for these purposes, a joint
committee  between CDR and the office of MSAR, with
responsibilities agreed upon with the Bank; and
    (b)   employ or cause to be employed, on the basis of a time-
based schedule agreed with the Bank, consultants to assist in
the carrying out of the Project pursuant to Section II of
Schedule 4.
3.  The Borrower shall, through MSAR, ensure that the workshops
under Part B (2) (ii) of the Project shall be organized, and
the participants therein shall be selected, in accordance with
the following guidelines: (i) the objectives of the workshops
to be the review and dissemination of international experience
in administrative reform and the discussion of reform options
in areas under consideration by the Borrower; (ii) the themes
for the workshops to cover major aspects of administrative and
civil service reform, including public/private partnership in
the provision of public services, civil service regulations,
public accountability systems, the mandate and structures of
line ministries, and information technology; (iii) the timing
of the workshops to take into account the timetable of the
process of reform; and (iv) the participants in the workshops
to include representatives of the groups concerned with
administrative reform, including senior civil servants, members
of Parliament, academics, representatives of the private
sector, trade unions and non-governmental organizations,  and
the consultants assisting in the implementation of Part B (i)
of the Project.
4.   The Borrower shall:
    (a)   cause each ministry or agency proposed to benefit from
the Project to submit to the Office of MSAR: (i) a report
setting forth an annual work plan covering the intended
activities to be carried out under the Project; and (ii) a
semi-annual report on the progress of such activities; and
    (b)   submit and furnish to the Bank, for its review, an
annual work plan report, and a semi-annual progress report,
covering the whole Project and reflecting (a) above.
5.  The Borrower shall:
    (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it
to monitor and evaluate, on a continuous basis, in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
    (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31, 1997,
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (1) of
this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project during the period
following such date; and
    (c)   review with the Bank, on April 30, 1997, or such later
date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the
said report, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on
Page  13
the matter.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
 1.       For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $800,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)    (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
Page  14
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
Page  15
including the General Conditions.
