            Document of
         The World Bank




                                      Report No: 27547

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (CPL-39300)

               ON A

              LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 20.0 MILLION

              TO THE

        LEBANESE REPUBLIC

              FOR A

ADMINISTRATIVE REHABILITATION LOAN




          December 18, 2003

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective December 15, 2003)

                                Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound
                                 1550.0 Pound = US$ 1.00
                                     US$ 1.00 = 1550.0 Pound

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1   to December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CDR     Council for Development and Reconstruction
COM     Council of Ministers
CSB     Civil Service Board
EU      European Union
GOL     Government of Lebanon
GovNet  Government Wide Area Network
IT      Information Technology
MOET    Ministry of Economy and Trade
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOP     Ministry of the President
MOT     Ministry of Transport
NARP    National Administrative Rehabilitation Program
OMSAR   Office of Minister of State for Administrative Reform
PSIF    Public Sector Improvement Fund
PSR     Project Status Report
TA      Technical Assistance
TIS     Trade Information Systems
TRU     Transport Regulatory Unit
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
VAT     Value Added Tax
WAN     Wide Area Network
WTO     World Trade Organization



                              Vice President:      Christiaan J. Poortman
                             Country Director      Joseph P. Saba
                              Sector Manager       Dipak Dasgupta
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Giulio de Tommaso

                                  LEBANESE REPUBLIC
                              Administrative Rehabilitation Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             37
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             39
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34

Project ID: P034035                                                  Project Name: LB-ADMIN. REHAB.
Team Leader: Giulio De Tommaso                                       TL Unit: MNSED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: LB-ADMIN. REHAB.                                         L/C/TF Number: CPL-39300
   Country/Department: LEBANESE REPUBLIC                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/13/1994                                     Effective: 12/01/1996                12/01/1996
     Appraisal: 05/16/1995                                         MTR:                             06/30/1997
      Approval: 08/03/1995                                      Closing: 12/01/1999                 12/01/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          THE LEBANESE GOVERNMENT/GOVERNMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Caio Kock Weser
Country Director:               Joseph P. Saba                                 Barbara Kafka
Sector Director:                Mustapha K. Nabli                              Anil Sood
Team Leader at ICR:             Giulio de Tommaso                              Salvatore Schiavo-Campo
ICR Primary Author:             Mikhail Pryadilnikov


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background

Lebanon emerged from the civil war with a devastated economy and a severely weakened public

infrastructure. Its real per capita income was reduced by nearly two-thirds during the 15 years of war and
military occupation and its physical assets completely run down.          Most Government buildings were
damaged, office equipment had been destroyed or stolen, and public employment was reduced to a bare
skeleton. Fewer than 7,400 public posts were filled out of the 20,860 prescribed by the government's
organizational structure, with nearly 60% of the management and mid-level posts in grades I, II and III
vacant. The prolonged isolation of the Civil Administration from the outside world reduced its exposure to
new trends and thinking in Administration Reform. As a result, the government's basic procedures,
established for the most part in the 1950s became outdated and constituted an impediment to the process of
physical reconstruction and economic recovery.

In this context, the basic rehabilitation of the administration was an important aspect of the initial program
of reconstruction, in the period immediately following the end of hostilities. In 1995 the government of
Lebanon, in conjunction with international consultants funded by UNDP and the French Government
outlined an initial program which highlighted some of the needs of the Public Administration. This initial
planned was subsequently refined and eventually constituted the basis of the National Administrative
Rehabilitation Program (NARP).

This program, which was to be implemented over a 5 year period, called for rehabilitation of information
technology and office equipment, personnel training and review of procedures and regulations. In support
of this initiative, the Bank developed the Revenue Enhancement Project (1994) - which focused on fiscal
management, custom modernization and land management - and the Administrative Rehabilitation Project
(ARP) - the project evaluated by this ICR.

The original drafters of the ARP envisioned a longer time frame for project implementation than what was
eventually granted. The evaluation ratings of the project are based on the recognition that in the
post-conflict situations, characterized by a highly uncertain political environment and weakened
coordination capacity, the implementation of reform and rehabilitation agenda is bound to take a long time.
Given the multi-dimensional nature of the project and the lack of easily monitorable indicators for some of
the project components, the evaluation takes a more nuanced approach by considering the importance of
adaptation to the difficult conditions of post-conflict society.

Objective

ARP's primary role was to assist the government in the implementation of NARP while proceeding with the
initial steps of administrative reform. It focused on the core tasks of administrative rehabilitation and
fostering reform dialogue.

In this process, the Bank's main interface was the Office of the Minister of Administrative Reform and the
original length of the loan was three years. Implementation was originally focused on a few agencies with
very well defined and specific projects, which had been chosen and identified because of their urgency and
their likely impact on the reconstruction.

In the course of implementation, such focus was redirected away from non performing projects, and
extended to additional ministries as well as additional projects for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry
of Economy and Trade. Beyond fulfilling the needs for key equipment and other infrastructural resources -
as identified by NARP - the project assisted in preparing plans for streamlining procedures, designing and
initiating longer term public administration and civil service reform, and encouraging participation and
building consensus to foster sustainable reform process.




                                                      - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

The basic objective of facilitating rehabilitation of public sector and encouraging administrative reform did
not change but its focus was extended from just a few agencies to several more. The project was amended
six times with major restructuring occurring in 1997 and 1999.

3.3 Original Components:

The components of the project supported key parts and were consistent with Government's NARP. Table 1
presents the components of the project, a summary of their specific activities in relation to priority national
issues and the outcomes. All components were reflective of national priorities of rehabilitating urgently
needed public sector infrastructure and initiating reforms.

Table 1: Administrative Rehabilitation Project Components

       Component         Issues Addressed             Planned Action                   Outcome


Part   Information    Office Equipment           Supply most public         Telephones, faxes and copiers
A     Technology      Office equipment is not    administrations with       were supplied to most public
      and Office      available in most cases;   office equipment.          agencies.
      Equipment       most public records are
                      destroyed and those
                      that are left are in need
                      of computerization;
                      Information
                      Technology                 provide Information        basic information technology
                      service delivery is        technology support to all  tools available and used for
                      inefficient because of     ministries and core        service delivery in most
                      the lack of adequate       agencies;                  administrations;
                      technology;


                                                                            core IT personnel is recruited
                                                 Train public sector        in affected administrations.
                      public sector staff is not employees in office        and trained; 1600 public
                      trained in information     technology, IT             sector employees were trained
                      technology;                applications, and basic    in office technology; 5000
                                                 network administration     computers delivered and
                                                 and maintenance;           installed;


                                                                            technology standards were
                                                 Make available             prepared and published
                      public agencies and        information/               National E-government
                      ministries are not         telecommunication          strategy was developed; legal
                      linked together and do     support systems to core    commercial registry for the
                      not share any online       agencies and select        private sector was
                      communication to           ministries for priority    computerized and trade
                      share information;         public functions; develop  information center was
                                                 national IT plan;          established;

                                                 deploy a government        Web sites with critical
                      coordination and           wide area network to       information for public service



                                                      - 3 -

                   communication is          interlink all ministries    delivery were developed for
                   difficult; office         and agencies while          all administrations. Public
                   productivity is low.      offering single point of    service information kiosks
                                             access to public citizens   were created in many public
                                             and private businesses;     agencies and universities;
                                             provide necessary
                                             communication
                                             infrastructure for
                                             e-government;
                                                                         Trade Info. sys, commercial
                   Complete absence of       make available or assist    and regulatory registry,
                   reliable information      in developing selected      several admin./decision
                   systems for priority      information systems, with   support systems developed
                   Gov. functions;           related training.           and utilized.



Part (i) Civil     Lack of reliable          Conduct civil service       Civil service census was
B    Service       information on the        census which includes       completed without field work
     Census        number of civil service   field inquiries to identify but through the use and
                   employees;                exactly the number of       analysis of questionnaires;
                                             civil service personnel;

                   large likelihood of the   design and develop          A basic database with
                   presence of ghost         consolidated human          information on civil service
                   workers and double        resource management         personnel was developed with
                   dippers; high but         database; which relates     the assistance of USAID.
                   undetermined number       the CSB, Ministry of        Hundreds of double dippers
                   of unqualified            Education to MOF and        and ghost employees were
                   temporary contract        payroll system;             identified, but there is strong
                   workers employed on a                                 likelihood that more remain;
                   daily laborers.
                                             incorporate civil service   A comprehensive and
                                             census data, taking into    accurate national database
                                             account job profiles and    linking various HR databases
                                             budgeted positions          and providing relevant
                                             criteria.                   information to concerned
                                                                         ministries does not exist.



     (ii) Reviews, Main items to be
     studies &     reviewed:
     workshops
                   Poor service provision;   Conduct a comprehensive     A study on amending of the
                   the public sector is slow review of the functions     civil service regulation was
                   to respond to new         and mandates of all         made and presented to the
                   policy initiatives;       ministries;                 Council of Ministers;

                   basic procedures of       implement a review of all   Organizational/functional
                   public administration     civil service regulations   studies of over 20 public
                   established 35 years      on recruitment, retention,  agencies were conducted; Six
                   ago or longer are         evaluation, promotion,      are presently under
                   incapable of meeting      mobility, retirement and    consideration by the Council
                   modern needs;             discipline;                 Of Ministers;



                                                   - 4 -

                       distorted compensation   define new salary scale;    Proposed new salary scale was
                       scheme does not attract  conduct a review of         developed but political
                       qualified local          control and audit           bottlenecks precluded its
                       personnel;               procedures;                 implementation;

                                                                            job description and
                                                                            evaluation was conducted for
                                                                            all employee groups;

                       Low level of awareness   organize a best practice    8 best practice workshops
                       and public participation workshop series and         were initiated and its findings
                       on the issue of          accessible to all           incorporated in the
                       Administration           concerned individuals in    administrative reform strategy
                       Reform.                  the public and private      approved by the Council of
                                                sphere.                     Ministers and new draft laws.



3.4 Revised Components:

The project underwent two major amendments. First, in 1997 the Public Service Improvement Fund (PSIF)
was created to reallocate amounts away from poorly performing subcomponents. PSIF enabled agencies to
submit proposals to support reform and rehabilitation initiatives under strict selection guidelines. In that
instance, procurement functions for goods and services financed from the ARP Loan were transferred from
CDR to OMSAR to expedite procurement and facilitate lagging disbursements.

The second amendment dates to 1999. In this instance, $5.4 m dollars of the 20.0 total were reallocated
away from some non performing components towards building policy-making capacity in some core sector
ministries. Responsibilities for these components were given directly to core ministries. This part, from
hereon referred to as Part C had several subcomponents: (a) Under the authority of the Ministry of Finance,
the assistance sought to (i) improve tax administration, (ii) introduce the Value Added Tax, (iii) deploy a
computerized communication framework and (iv) extend customs modernization; (b) Under the authority of
the Ministry of Economy and Trade, the program was focused on assisting the program of the government
for the WTO accession, (ii) supporting the policy unit within the Ministry and designing institutional
framework for consumer protection; (c) Under the authority of the Ministry of Transport, the assistance
focused on establishing an institutional framework for private participation in the ports of Beirut and
Tripoli and developing and implementing the Civil Aviation Overall Strategy.



           Component          Issues Addressed         Planned Action                   Outcome
Part      Institutional    Low capacity to        Study on the reform of      Improved data collection by
C         Assistance to    manage tax             the Ministry of Finance.    the MOF. Creation of an
          the Ministry of  administration and     Implement some of the       economic research center;
          Finance          budget preparation     recommendations of the      interlinked departments at
          (MOF)            and expenditures;      study, including:           MOF at various locations
                                                  · supporting the            through a single network;
                                                  introduction of VAT,        modernized budgetary,
                                                  · design and implement      treasury and payroll
                                                  WAN connecting various      information systems in
                                                  department within MOF       place;




                                                     - 5 -

                                                providing the MOF with
                         inadequate             IT hardware, networking     Computers and
                         computerization;       tools and training;         telecommunication
                                                                            networks delivered and
                                                                            installed. Basic software
                                                                            application for budget
                                                                            preparation and payroll
                                                                            applications in place.

         Institutional   No capacity exists to  MOET: design legislative    Strong contribution to
         Assistance to   develop and act on     and institutional           building and modernization
         the Ministry of important economic     framework for consumer      of public sector capacity in
         Economy and     policy choices;        protection. Assist          the design and management
         Trade                                  Lebanon in WTO              of trade policy and in the
         (MOET)                                 accession.                  formulation of economic
                                                                            policy. Helped design a
                                                                            new and improved
                                                                            legislative framework for
                                                                            consumer protection; it
                                                                            supported a trade policy
                                                                            team within the MOET to
                                                                            facilitate Lebanese
                                                                            accession to WTO.

                         unavailability of
                         trade information to
                         be provided by         Develop a One-Stop-Shop     Trade Information Center
                         prospective            for traders to facilitate   was established. Trade
                         importer/exporters     access of trading           Information System (TIS)
                         and trading            community to                was developed and is
                         community;             government regulations      assisting traders in timely
                         regulatory framework   and market information      access to market
                         made it difficult for                              opportunities.
                         prospective exporters
                         to identify procedures
                         to be followed.



         Ministry of    Lack of capacity to    Acquire capacity and        Transport Regulatory Unit
         Transport      develop strategy for   prepare the regulatory      (TRU) established,
         (MOT)          privatization of       framework for               responsible for legal and
                        Land/Sea and Air       privatization.              policy advice; two studies
                        transport                                          were produced for
                                                                           parliamentary approval.



3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at Entry is rated marginally Satisfactory. The ARP objectives and design were consistent with
Government of Lebanon's reform program as described in the National Administrative Rehabilitation
Program (NARP). The project desing incorporated and adapted to the difficult post-conflict realities by
keeping the focus narrowly on urgent rebuilding of public sector physical infrastructure while undertaking



                                                   - 6 -

background work for administrative reform.

The Memorandum of the President (MoP) for ARP cited several risk factors which could affect timely
policy execution. They were (i) the potential lack of capacity of counterpart agencies to implement project
components; (ii) the age and effectiveness of the civil service, (iii) the lack of qualified, motivated
management staff and (v) the complexity of political situation after the war. The project sought to mitigate
the risk by keeping the design of the project simple, and focusing the largest part of the project on activities
which could be undertaken independently by one agency and did not require massive background work or
institutional reform.

Despite these precautions, the Bank underestimated the divisive nature of the political institutions which
weaken the coordination capacity of the government and the ability to oversee and carry out implementation
of projects. Furthermore, project preparation would have certainly benefited from a more systematic and
comprehensive interaction with the prospective implementing agencies, especially at the working level. This
could have assisted in identifying implementing agencies' real commitment and facilitated faster
implementation. It is important to recognize, however, that given the depleted state of the Lebanese Public
Administration there were few staff with whom to have this dialogue and interaction. Nevertheless, this
lack of capacity should have at the very least, dictated a much longer implementation time frame. The
creation and support of a technically effective implementation agency that is not integrated in the regular
civil service should be considered as a short-term solution to a limited set of problems. Such agency cannot
be charged with tackling larger issues of administrative reform because these tasks should involve the
benefiting agencies from the outset. The project could also have benefitted from the development of better
monitorable indicators for launching administrative reform agenda, however it should be acknowledged that
the project indicators were consistent with the operational quality requirements as they were stated in 1994.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of objectives is rated Satisfactory. This rating is consistent with PSR ratings (see Table 1
in Annex), on progress in reaching Project Development Objectives. The project clearly addressed the
rehabilitation needs of the public administration, and provided important diagnostic base for a process of
administration reform. However, the project had a much longer implementation period than anticipated
(almost 4 years longer than originally planned).

The project was extended four times. Table 2 lists and dates and durations of each of the four extension of
ARP.

                                  Table 2: Extension of ARP
               Extension                          From                               To
                   1                           06/30/1999                        12/31/2000
                   2                           12/31/2000                        06/30/2001
                   3                           06/30/2001                        06/30/2002
                   4                           12/31/2002                        06/30/2003



With respect to specific project components, performance was satisfactory in creating the basic capacity to
address issues of public administration rehabilitation by providing equipment, information technology, and
a basic knowledge base to support targeted reforms. It improved technical capacity of OMSAR to support



                                                     - 7 -

complex public sector projects through the creation of highly efficient body of technical experts. The
"info-structures" deployed with the assistance of OMSAR greatly helped in deploying a minimum capacity
to deliver public services. In addition, the workshops organized by OMSAR attracted a high level of
participation from the top level government officials. The workshops managed to provide an important
forum for discussion in a highly divisive political environment serving as a backdrop for important
legislative initiatives in the area of corruption, archiving and access to information. The studies and reviews
conducted by OMSAR served as a backdrop for development of draft laws and restructuring
recommendations for ministries and public agencies. Further detail regarding each individual component
are found in section 4.2 below.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Though ARP is rated as satisfactory overall, there were difficulties with implementation of some original
project components. The rating for the project remains satisfactory since through project restructuring the
project financed new useful activities which achieved the overall objectives of rehabilitation and reform
launch.

Part A

Information Technology and Office Equipment (Satisfactory) component supported training of 1600
government employees in office and information technology including 300 management staff. The project
procured delivery and installation of 5000 computers, in addition to equipping most public administrations
with telephony, fax, copiers and other office equipment. Priority information systems were made available
to selected administrations , and intra and inter network infrastructures were installed in 35 public agencies.
OMSAR worked together with MOF to deploy a government wide area network (GovNet). Under the
purview of the Ministry of Economy and Trade (MOET) and the approval of the Council of Ministers , a
national IT committee (chaired by OMSAR, MOET, and the Ministry of Communication) was set up in
1998 to pursue the national IT agenda in promoting information technology in support of the Lebanese
economy and public service delivery. The national IT strategy and the Lebanese E-government strategy
were developed by OMSAR in consultation of other agencies is currently under consideration by the CoM.


In addition to the installation of hardware and training, the IT component financed the configuration and
installation of applications to simplify procedures and enhance efficiency within public agencies.
Automation of procedures was completed within the core public institutions such as the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, MOET, MOF, Office of the Prime Minister, and the Office of the President and Civil Service
Board. It developed and installed commercial registry at the Ministry of Justice simplifying procedures for
tracking of registrations and commercial transactions. The newly installed database on handicapped and
disabled developed for the Ministry of Social Affairs reduced the time needed to process claims and
expanded the database of social assistance recipients.

The ability to track transactions electronically has raised accountability and reduced corruption while
enhancing the government's ability to monitor transactions. The intranet network and library system
established at the Lebanese University interlinking 21 different branches of the university through a single
broadband network reduced the time needed for registration for courses. In the MOF, modernization of tax
system and customs administration reduced the clearance time and reduced opportunities for private gain
allowing clearance to be done on a remote basis. OMSAR directed the development and the deployment of
a computerized system for the commercial and legal registry at the Ministry of Justice. The system provides
an easy access to registry to citizens through internet. OMSAR also assisted the Ministry of Foreign



                                                        - 8 -

Affairs in establishing a comprehensive management information system pertaining to international
bi-lateral and multi-lateral agreements. However, not all beneficiary agencies had the absorptive capacity to
implement computerization.

Office Equipment component delivered office equipment, installed photocopiers, scanners printers, copiers,
phone-systems, fax machines, calculators, binding machines and typewriters in cost-efficient and expedient
manner.

Part B

Civil Service Census (Unsatisfactory). This component was not implemented as originally designed.
Problems in cooperation between CSB and OMSAR on matter of civil service concerns presented early
difficulties in implementing this project and resulted in the elimination of this action from those to be
financed by the World Bank loan and the reallocation of these funds to PSIF. A survey ­ with much
different methodology was nonetheless conducted. Yet the results of this exercised are not what had been
anticipated. While some important progress in collecting and systematizing databases has been achieved,
the information base for the government on personnel remains cumbersome and highly speculative. It is
estimated that hundreds of ghost employees have been removed from the files, although it is anticipated that
thousands more remain.

A committee has been formed in 2000 for consolidating the human resources databases. The education
census was also not completed. The work on the establishment of schools/teacher/student management
information systems experienced delays and eventually failed.

Reviews, Studies & Workshops (Satisfactory) OMSAR concluded reviews of 20 core public agencies in
addition to conducting numerous studies on unit and sectroral restructuring. On the average, the studies are
considered of good quality. The agency completed the review of job classification and grading systems for
senior management and middle management category of civil servants. It stopped short of developing a
complete job description and position classification for all types of government employees, as this activity
must rely on the input of the Civil Service Board.        Major studies on Trade Efficiency, Commercial
Registry, and the MOF business process management regulations were conducted and served as a basis for
the successful internal restructuring in a number of core public agencies ­ such as the Ministry of Finance.

Eight workshops were conducted on important topics of relevance to Public Administration with the
purpose of raising awareness on reform issues. These were: Administrative Reform, Corruption and Ethics
in Civil Service, Archiving and Data Management, Y2K, Human Resources Management, the Role of
Government and the IT policy workshop. All were widely attended by key ministers and concerned agency
heads, prominent members of academia and representatives of civil society.

The studies and workshops recommendation were integrated into two major strategy documents:
Administrative Reform Strategy approved by the Council of Ministers in 1999 and the E-government
strategy, drafted in 1999 and now updated and presented for consideration by the Council of Ministers.
Further important documents such as the Citizen's Charter (approved by the Council of Ministers in 2001)
which outlines the citizens rights and obligations towards the state. A code of conduct for Civil Servants
directed specifically towards public sector employees was presented to the Council of Ministers, who
approved it but refused to make it binding on Civil Servants. It was nonetheless distributed to all public
sector employees in 2002 and constitutes an important basis for additional reform.

Finally, a number of draft laws were prepared following the workshops. A law on archives, which required


                                                     - 9 -

civil servants to maintain accurate files and prescribed responsibilities for these ­ recommended by
Archiving and Data Management Workshop in 1998 - was adopted by the parliament in 2001. Moreover, a
draft law creating an ombudsman (2001) and a draft law on combating corruption and access to
information (2002) were drafted and presented to the Council of Ministers for action. Both are still under
consideration by the cabinet. Workshops were important for a for consensus building within and outside
public administration, and provided validation and feedback to the activities of OMSAR.

Institutional Assistance to MOF, MOET and MOT (Satisfactory) developed as a result of specific
requests from the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of the Economy and Trade (MOET) and the
Ministry of Transport (MOT). This component contributed to the initial building and modernization of
public sector capacity in the design and management of trade policy and in the formulation of economic
policy at the MOF and MOET.

It assisted the Ministry of Economy and Trade in improving its data collection, creating an economic
research center and designing legislative and institutional framework for consumer protection, privatization,
competition and trade policy. It additionally helped support a trade policy team within the MTOE to
facilitate Lebanese accession to the WTO. The MOET also strengthened its consumer protection
department by expanding its staff and optimizing the workload. Following the recommendation of the trade
efficiency study, OMSAR helped MOET to develop "One Stop Shop"/Trade Information Center where all
technical controls are handled electronically through Trade Information System (TIS). Trade Information
Center currently supports electronic dissemination of commercial information to firms and individuals.

MOT has used its allocation to create a Transport Regulatory Unit (TRU), responsible for legal and policy
advice. TRU presented two studies for parliamentary approval: institutional framework for private
participation in the ports of Beirut and Tripoli; and Civil Aviation Overall Strategy for the implementation
of open skies policy. The study was considered on the whole satisfactory, but follow up on this study has
been inadequate.

The component with the MOF made a particular progress completing the design and installation of a fast
and secure wide area network (WAN) connecting various departments and allows them to exchange data.
Regional offices within the Ministry of Finance are now able to connect to central office and to exchange
information among the different services with regard to budget preparation, revenue administration and
related matters. The Ministry of Finance purchased configured and installed 600 new desktop PCs and
upgraded 150 desktop computers. It signed Enterprise Agreement with Microsoft licensing 1000 desktop
and 50 servers, a contract was also signed with Oracle. In addition to information technology support,
personnel of different agencies within the MOF was trained in the preparation of the budget, using the
software already developed and tested at the MOF, thus shortening the process of budget preparation and
increasing its accuracy. It also used the project to improve management of tax administration and
introduced VAT which proved to be a success was implemented.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:



                                                    - 10 -

Substantial. ARP had a high and direct institutional development impact. The project was implemented at
a time when state institutions were severely weakened and government's program of reconstruction
thoroughly dependent on the progress of public sector rehabilitation. The project supported essential first
steps to recovery by building up capacity through IT and equipment supply, comprehensive reviews of civil
service practices and regulations and support of policy-advising units in key ministries. However, while the
gains in administrative rehabilitation are substantial, efforts along the path of administrative reform
remain tentative, haphazard and piecemeal, lacking a committed strategy endorsed by all parties and clear
lines of accountability and responsibility for its results

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were five different governments and ­ accordingly ­ five different ministers during the time of
implementation of the subject project. Upon each change of government, draft law proposals, and projects
presented for the Council of Ministers approval are returned to the concerned agency ministry for review of
the new concerned minister. While for the most part, most ministers have tried to rely on the strategy and
work of its predecessors, there have been some prolonged periods of inactivity as a result of political
reshuffling, which have put the whole project of Administrative Reform at risk. Secondly, the highly
volatile geo-political situation in the region has also affected the environment under which the project was
implemented. This has contributed to redirecting the attention of policymakers away from Administrative
Rehabilitation and has stunted any impetus for Administrative Reform.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Lack of accountability within government for implementation of proposed reform initiatives.

The project and the involved agencies underwrote and conducted very important, often high quality
background work to prepare and assist the process of reform. Despite this background work, only few of
the initiatives recommended have led to tangible reforms initiatives on the ground. This is because the
concerned ministries are not invested with the responsibility of implementing the reform plans which were
conducted and undertaken. The end result is that high quality studies remain unused, merely collecting
dust, and occasionally being repeated when funding appears from different donors. This raises concerns
about prospects for reform.

There are many other examples of how the lack of implementation follow-up has stunted efforts at
Administrative Reform and how very good technical work, conducted within the scope of this project by
OMSAR and others has only had limited impact and little demonstration effect.

For example, the Administrative Reform Strategy was endorsed by the Cabinet, yet no indication was given
by this body about how the strategy should be implemented, its timeframe or who is responsible for the
actions contained in it. As a result, the government has yet to make any progress in addressing the problems
of the Administration. Some of the recommendations of the workshops, such as the code of conduct for
public sector employees were translated into laws and adopted by Government, but by not making this code
binding, its achievement has been diminished.

When Reform does proceed in most cases it is in a haphazard and piecemeal manner, relying on the
determination of individual ministers rather than a coordinated government strategy and commitment. For



                                                      - 11 -

instance, while the number of authorized posts was reduced by 5000 and the number of temporary workers
was reduced to 10 % of total permanent positions in 1998, the government did not develop a long-term
strategy of recruitment and retrenchment rejecting the policy proposals of Civil Service Board and OMSAR
on retrenchment. This has greatly hampered the ability of these two agencies to move towards management
of human resources for the Civil Service Board, and a enabler for large scale Administrative Reform in the
case of OMSAR.

Lack of clarity in the mandate of OMSAR

OMSAR, has done an exceptional job as an agency responsible for providing know-how, advice and
equipment to support the process of administration reform. Yet it does not have the institutional mandate to
follow up on the actions suggested by the restructuring and reengineering studies to be undertaken by other
agencies or ministries. While this issue per se does not constitute a stumbling block for reform, the fact
that individual ministries do not have to undertake this responsibility either, does ensure that these reform
actions will stall. This has affected reform initiatives in many agencies, despite the fact that the reform
recommendations are considered sensible and necessary to improve their performance. It is clear that the
lack of clear mandates for OMSAR encourages resistance from other agencies who consider OMSAR to be
encroaching on responsibilities which are statutorily theirs. These limitations have been clearly identified
in the course of ARP's implementation.

On the whole, OMSAR made significant progress in conducting workshops, reviewing the structure of
Ministries and agencies, and supporting agency-specific initiatives. However, this political issue provided a
clear limitation in making progress on the reform agenda. As a result, OMSAR not as successful in leading
the process of restructuring and reengineering for all agencies and to initiate reform.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

OMSAR was unable in the early stage to take into account the way other agencies such as CDR conducted
their work. This had some impact on the initial implementation of the program. In 1997, the Council of
Ministers transferred the responsibility for procurement of project financed goods and services fully from
CDR to OMSAR. The move greatly facilitated the process and improved implementation.

OMSAR implementation units built significant capacity to manage numerous donor demands and build
technical capacity to implement them, but it required some time to find its niche in the complex Lebanese
public administration. This led to some friction with other important agencies necessary for the
implementation of this program, such as the Civil Service Board or the Central Inspection agency.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total original loan amount was US$20.0 million. The loan was fully disbursed. The credit was made at
the IBRD standard variable interest rate, a 5 year grace period with a term of 17 years.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of ARP is rated likely especially in the IT component. The capacity built in various
agencies of the Government of Lebanon will be sustained in large part because the infrastructure rebuilding
initiatives that they supported were implemented in the time of high demand and are essential for any


                                                    - 12 -

functioning government institutions. A large number of public sector employees trained in computer
technology and office applications along with the training of the support staff makes sustainability more
likely. However, a greater financial commitment by the Government of Lebanon to maintenance of these
equipments and training is required. The various agency specific initiatives, specifically in the MOF and
MOET, are not a matter concern. These were demand-oriented programs designed with direct participation
and commitment of beneficiary agencies.

To date, the government has not demonstrated the ability to maintain commitment for comprehensive public
administration reform. Through studies, workshops and reviews, the project provided background
information necessary for initiation of a long term strategy however without a political commitment to
administrative reform, the gains of preparatory work likely to be left underutilized.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The effective transition to regular operation requires a political and financial commitment to administrative
reform. The lack of political consensus over the reform priorities does not bode well for the future of
comprehensive public sector restructuring. While some agencies mainstreamed project activities into
regular operations, the government's overall commitment to reform is low. While there is no indication that
any of the ARP components will be reversed, the absence of action in itself is a threat to sustainability of
gains made under the ARP.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank pursued a wide ranging program to build administrative capacity that had been
supported by this and several other projects including Revenue Enhancement and Fiscal Management TA
and Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (NERP). The Bank was also effective in
leveraging funds for TA from other donors including the Arab Fund, the EU and the UNDP and was
careful in mitigating risks in the implementation into the project design.

The Bank, however, did not estimate properly that support for administrative reconstruction in a low
capacity, post-conflict countries takes a long time. The Bank envisioned that it would take less than 3
years to implement the project, while it actually took 8 years with several extensions. Moreover, it should
have done more comprehensive work in determining clear performance indicators and targets to focus the
efforts of the implementing agencies.

7.2 Supervision:

Marginally Satisfactory. The Bank carried out supervision throughout the life of the project, and
thoroughly documented progress and implementation development and issues. If further demonstrated
flexibility in revising the original components and endorsing the establishment of a demand-oriented
instrument (the PSIF), capable of addressing changing demands and preferences of the Government. This
type of instrument is considered "best practice" in supporting the process of administration reform and
creating demand for reform from below. It managed to promptly resolve the issue of consultant
reimbursement dispute following the Bank's policy change in 2001.

However, in an environment where indigenous capacity is low, as was clearly demonstrated in the very
early stages of preparation of this operation, and the multi-dimensional nature of the TA required in a



                                                     - 13 -

post-conflict situation required a more intensive supervisory assistance ­ especially in the early stages of
the project - than what was provided by the Bank. Moreover, supervision leadership of this project
changed five times during the life of the project, disrupting continuity on the Bank side. The supervision
responsibility moved to the country office in the later states of project implementation but this would have
had more impact had it taken place early on .

Finally, the project was extended several time for a shorter period of time. While the extensions were
instrumental in solidifying the results of the program, and that the majority of the Lebanese portfolio is
prone to delays, in this circumstance, the project could have benefited from a more strategic view to these
extensions, as it was evident very early on that implementation of even this modest program could have
easily taken an additional three years from the original closing date.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Bank performance is rated satisfactory based on lending and supervision ratings.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The GoL was deeply involved in the design of the project incorporating it in the broader
National Administrative Rehabilitation Program (NARP). The Borrower recognized early that "the first
stage of the process must be the rehabilitation of basic physical structures and administrative capabilities."
The GoL also recognized that administrative rehabilitation has to focus on the introduction of simplified
procedures and improved work methods, including the use of modern, labor-saving technology. However,
the government did not provide for the necessary political commitment for reform, exemplified by its
willingness to resolve contentious issues and move along more decisively along the path of reform. This
affected the relationship between implementing agencies and the project beneficiaries and is demonstrated
by the lack of tangible measures which could benefit the citizen.

The government could have also benefited from insisting on clear performance indicators for the project
components and create a tighter relationship between the implementing agency and the executive.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Unsatisfactory. The lack of governmental coordination continuously frustrated efforts to avoid delays in
implementation and procurement. Deeply entrenched vested interests and uncertain political commitments
made implementation difficult even though some components performed satisfactorily. The government did
not do a good coordinating job linking the work of OMSAR with other implementing agencies never clearly
defining its role vis a vis the Civil Service Board and other agencies responsible for reforms. At the same
time, it should be acknowledged that relative to other Bank project in Lebanon, ARP performed well on
disbursement and overall institutional impact.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


Satisfactory. The PIU team performed well despite the negative external factors over which the agency had
relatively little control, particularly in the beneficiary institutions which lacked qualified personnel and the
political will at the top levels. It has been largely successful in coordinating a large number of programs
involving numerous public agencies and many donors, however, on a number of occasions, OMSAR



                                                        - 14 -

appeared to lack leverage within the Government to accelerate implementation when it was needed. There
were also some internal problems at OMSAR in 1999 when the new leadership did not keep up keep with
the agreed schedule of implementation. Some of the project funds were consequently moved to the MOF
and MOET.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, borrower's performance is rated marginally satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

Project Design

Greater beneficiary agency involvement is necessary from the outset. The ARP experience confirms that
the willingness and capacity of beneficiary agencies to absorb project components depends directly on them
having a stake in the project. While in the case of Lebanon, there was no one to conduct these activities
with, it is also a demonstration that in those instances, longer preparation is of the essence to train and
inform new employees on the objectives of the reform and the process to be undertaken is a significant
determinant in the overall success of the reform.

Clear performance indicators should be developed. The effectiveness of studies, workshops and training
can be measured better if clear impact targets are set from the outset. This may include specifying the
number of senior civil servants attending the workshop, or developing an action plan following the findings
of a study to track the progress of implementation.

Project Implementation

There is a clear correlation between lack of capacity and length of implementation. No matter how
simple the design and how well defined the activity, building capacity for institutional reforms may require
a longer time frame than what is generally practiced. The project extensions had to be either longer or the
project needed to be closed completely. Short-term 6 month extensions are not helpful to support complex
project cycles. This is especially true for countries in post-conflict situations. In the post-war environment
project design and implementation needs to account for fluid political circumstances and weakened
policy-formulation capacity.

Donor-funded enclaves of technical excellence must be mainstreamed into the traditional civil service.
OMSAR has become an important source of technical expertise and know-how. However, its lack of clear
mandate, and the difficult relationship it has with the traditional civil service may have affected its
effectiveness. It is clear, that under this circumstance, these highly qualified, highly paid cadres must be
mainstreamed into the fiber of the traditional civil service. This lesson is being internalized in certain other
ministries which have similar situations.

Project Supervision

There is a clear correlation between the capacity at entry and the closeness of supervision to be
provided. The Bank needs to carry a closer supervision of TA projects in post-war reconstruction
situations. The supervision responsibility moved to the country office eventually but should have been done
much earlier.



                                                     - 15 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                      Office of the
                                    Minister of State for Administrative Reform
                                                         OMSAR

      OMSAR's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report on a loan from the World
       Bank in the amount of US$ 20 million to the Lebanese Republic in support of the National
                        Administrative Rehabilitation Program (NARP), SPECIFICALLY
                        Agreement No. 3930-LE: Administrative Rehabilitation Project

                                                       Prepared on

                                                     November 28, 20




    Introduction

    The Lebanese Parliament approved the US$ 20 million loan Agreement between the Lebanese government and
    the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) (herewith referred to as the `World Bank')
    by law no. 484 dated 8 December 1995.

    The Agreement was intended to cover the launching of the first stage of National Administrative Rehabilitation
    Program (commonly known as NARP) with the government's first priority being the rehabilitation of the
    administration and its provision with the necessary office tools: computers, information systems, faxes, phone
    networks, as well as other institutional development projects covering review of mandates and organization
    structures of ministries, job descriptions and classifications in public administrations, new payrolls, and
    training of hundreds of civil servants.

    Despite the difficulties it faced, and the numerous changes of governments, OMSAR managed to achieve a
    great part of the projects included in the loan program, such as the long-term administrative reform strategy
    that was adopted by the Council of Ministers, and the job descriptions project that was completed and officially
    submitted to the Civil Service Council for implementation. This in addition to the implementation of large
    number of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) projects for most ministries ranging from
    network infrastructures, to office productivity tools, to specialized vertical applications in the areas of document
    management and workflow. All of these ICT projects were accompanied by the required training for both usage
    and administration of the deployed solution.

    The realization of these loan projects was facilitated by the core competencies developed at OMSAR namely in
    the areas of institutional development, ICT, procurement, and training. These competencies formed OMSAR's
    two main implementation units: the Institutional Development Unit (or IDU) and the Technical Cooperation
    Unit (or TCU). And it is mainly due to the dedicated performance of these units under the World Bank loan as
    a first stage of the NARP that the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) and the
    European Union (EU) provided the Government of Lebanon through OMSAR additional funding, US$ 20
    million as a loan and  38 million as a grant, respectively.

    The trust and support that the World Bank gave to our office also added to our resolve to effectively utilize loan



                                                         - 16 -

funds for the rehabilitation and development of the Lebanese public administration. Within this context, and
taking into account the World Bank loan portfolio in Lebanon, we would like to make two relevant
observations:
1.    The administrative reform project at OMSAR may be the only project that was entirely completed and
whose allocated funds were entirely spent.
2.    A new loan has become absolutely necessary, especially now that public administrations have become
more responsive to reform initiatives, more confident in            OMSAR, and more inclined to ask for help
as well as participate in the design and implementation of reform projects.

2.    Project background

OMSAR started to work in 1995 on the execution of the NARP that aims at establishing a highly-qualified and
smaller public administration able to deliver basic government services and enhance the administration's
capacities, in view of providing a flexible institutional framework capable of supporting and accompanying the
plans of economic and social development, and thus provide citizens with the best services at the least cost
possible.

The primary cost for this program was estimated at approximately USD 125 million as per the following
activities distribution:



                          Training
                                                                                 Technical

                            18%                                                   support
                                                                            &support services
                                                                                     28%




                                                                              Equipments
                   Information systems
                    and computers
                                                                                  12%

                          42%



            Figure 1: Distribution of National Administrative Rehabilitation Program Activities

For implementing this sizeable program, two units were established at OMSAR to handle both aspects of
administrative development: (1) administrative development from the institutional and legal point of view, and
(2) administrative rehabilitation from the technical point of view. These units were respectively named the
Institutional Development Unit (or IDU) and the Technical Cooperation Unit (or TCU) with the following
establishment dates and objectives:

Institutional Development Unit (IDU)

Date of establishmentOctober 9, 1994 based on an agreement between the Government of Lebanon and
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).

Objectives of the IDU1.           Establishing comprehensive strategies for administrative development
through a futuristic vision.




                                                     - 17 -

2.   Reviewing the administrative mandates and structure and setting out the objectives and tasks of the
public administration.
3.   Establishing a comprehensive project for job classification.
4.   Assisting the public administration and supporting it in all regulatory issues.
5.   Making the public administration closer to the citizen and supporting related projects (setting up
reception offices, handling citizens' questions, simplification of procedures, etc.)



Technical Cooperation Unit (TCU)

Date of establishmentMay 27, 1994 based on an agreement between the Government of Lebanon and
the UNDP.

Objectives of the TCU1.          Translating basic technical needs for rehabilitation procedures into
practical programs.
2.   Supporting ministries and public institutions in the preparation and execution of the NARP with a
focus on institutional development and Information and Communication Technology (ICT) projects.
3.   Providing the necessary financial and human resources for the execution of the NARP.
4.   Preparation of national IT policies and strategy with participation of both public and private
sectors.
5.   Acting as coordinator, intermediary, and catalyst in the support of the ability of the concerned
parties to get a maximum benefit from the projects financed by the donors.

With these units established, additional financial resources for furthering the implementation of the program
were mobilized bringing the total secured amount to US$ 80 million from loans and grants, as is shown in the
following chart:




                                Figure 2: External sources of funding for NARP


The World Bank loan, again being the first to be secured, was put into effect in January 1996. This was
accompanied by some US$ 4 million in cost-sharing grant funds from the UNDP for the implementation units'
operations support. The Arab Fund loan was the second loan to be secured and was put into effect in April
1998. And finally, the EU grant was the last financial resource to be mobilized and was put into effect in
September 1999.




                                                    - 18 -

3.   Brief description of the World Bank loan

The World Bank's administrative rehabilitation project was designed to contribute to the administrative
rehabilitation of ministries and core agencies as part of the global NARP. It covers providing the required
technical assistance to around 28 ministries and the 3 core agencies and providing them with the required
necessities from information systems, equipment and relevant training to raise their absorptive capacity and
improve their individual performances.

4.   Project elements
Activities of the administrative rehabilitation project under loan 3930-LE can be broken down in to the
following main elements:
A-   Information and Technology coordination among the various administrations and the establishment
of a general national plan:
·    Setting up the requirements and regulatory frameworks for the exchange of information through
Information Technology (IT) networks inside and between                         administrations.
·    Setting up the necessary standards and measures for computer systems and IT networks to ensure
compliance.
·    Holding awareness seminars about ICT best practices, developments and related programs.
·    Holding specialized ICT Workshops.

B-   Information Systems:
·    Purchasing and installing computer equipment and peripherals.
·    Designing and implementing information systems and related programs.
·    Training human resources for operating these information systems.

C-   Equipments and Tools:
          Providing the necessary basic equipment for day-to-day operation of the public administration,
          including photocopiers, communication tools, and other office equipment.

D-   Technical Assistance:
          Reforming administrative mandates and organization structures and developing a database for civil
          service employees as well as using the services of experts to assist the ministries and core agencies that
          benefit from the project, as well as managing the project's implementation.

E-   Specialized workshops:
         Conduct thematic workshops that aim at creating awareness for modern management techniques and
         concepts in addition to gaining consensus on new initiatives.

5.   Assessment of the loan program design

The initial design of loan 3930-LE covered 2 core areas, namely:
A.   Rehabilitation and modernization of administrative services through provision of office equipment, office
technology, information systems and related training and services.
B.   Part 1) establishing a modern database for the civil service; and Part 2) designing and initiating a
long-term strategy for administrative reform through (i) review of              civil service regulations, salary
levels, structure, mandates, and missions. and (ii) workshops.

The US$ 20 million loan was spread over these core areas that were considered as priority areas in the
administrative rehabilitation and reform agenda. Yet, the large size of the identified projects for a limited
number of beneficiaries proved difficult to implement due mainly to the limited absorptive capacity level at the
targeted beneficiaries.
This limitation required a rethinking of the allocation of the loan funds so as to implement projects of the



                                                    - 19 -

proper scope at beneficiaries that have absorptive capacity to ensure greater levels of sustainability. Hence, a
criteria-based selection process for new projects under this loan was agree to with the World Bank under the
Public Service Improvement Fund (or PSIF) modality. This agreement was reached with the bank in 1997 with
the PSIF modality having the following project selection criteria:
1.    Project falls within the original scope of the activities of the World Bank Loan Agreement.
2.    Project promotes simplification and streamlining of procedures and operations.
3.    Cost of the project request is in the range of US$50,000 to US$500,000.
4.    Proposed project is `services' oriented with the optimal combination of `goods' and `training'.
5.    Demonstrated capacity on behalf of beneficiary to provide technical assistance in the form of qualified
personnel to make project more sustainable.

This modality facilitated proper disbursement of the loan funds for a large number of projects, all within the
cores areas of the initial World Bank loan design.

6.    Project achievements

After direct funds amounting to US$ 6 million were allocated from the total loan to the Ministry of Finance in
1999 and 2001, OMSAR spent the remaining US$ 14 million through 80 different contracts covering services
and goods projects. The Ministry of Finance spent the funds it took on projects for itself, the Ministry of
Economy and Trade, the Ministry of Public Works and Transport and the Office of the Prime Minister.

The projects financed by the World Bank loan, in addition to those covered by the loan from Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development which mainly benefited autonomous agencies, constituted the basis of the
administrative rehabilitation program that OMSAR was and is still implementing. Accordingly, the main
projects and achievements financed by the World Bank loan can be summarized as follows:

A.    Institutional Development Activities:
·     Organizational structure studies for a number of ministries including the Ministry of Finance where a
revision and reform of procedures studies was conducted and            for core agencies such as the Central
Inspection Board.
·     Job descriptions documentation for the civil service cadre.
·     Trade Efficiency study for the Ministry of Economy and Trade through which all ministries and agencies
associated with trade were assessed and recommendations for facilitating trade were made.

B.    Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Implementations and Services:

     Infrastructure and hardware:
·     Establishing local network infrastructure in more than 30 public administrations ­ ministries and core
agencies.
·     Completing the ICT infrastructure at the Presidential Palace.
·     Establishing a wide area network among 21 branches of the Lebanese University.
·     Delivering and assembling more than 2000 PCs with their peripherals for public administrations and
agencies in addition to 400 photocopiers, 1700 telephone sets and               100s of other relevant office
equipment utilities.


     Off-the-shelf and customized software:
·     Over 2000 PCs supplied with office productivity tools, benefiting most ministries and core agencies.
·     Commercial Registry system at the Ministry of Justice.
·     Student Information System for the Lebanese University.
·     Database system for the Ministry of Social Affairs for disabled persons and their rights..
·     Insurance Control Commission information system at the Ministry of Economy and Trade.
·     Legal Decision Support Database system for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Emigrants.
·     Decentralized Data Collection system for public schools.



                                                      - 20 -

  Studies:
·  Formulating a National ICT Strategy and Policy.

C. Training and Capacity Building:

  Administrative and ICT training:
·  ICT training to more than 1600 civil servants.
·  Administrative training to more than 300 civil servant


  Thematic workshops:
·  Administrative Reform
      Held on June 11-12, 1996 under the auspices of H.E. the Minister of State for Administrative Reform
      and with the participation of the Minister of State for Financial Affairs and Lebanese and foreign
      experts. Reform strategies in the Commonwealth member countries were presented during the
      workshop as well as practical cases concerning international experiences related to administrative
      reform. Problems were defined and suggestions made concerning the cases related to administrative
      reform in view of establishing a reform program applicable in Lebanon.

·  Corruption and Ethical Behavior of Civil Servants
      Held on November 19-20, 1997 under the auspices of H.E. the Minister of State for Administrative
      Reform and with the participation of the Minister of State for Financial Affairs and Lebanese and
      foreign experts. International experiences in fighting corruption were presented during the conference,
      and the participants adopted the recommendations of the participating task forces related to fighting
      corruption, enhancing transparency and work ethics, as well as activating the role of civil society to
      stop corruption and its negative effects.

·  Archiving and Records Management
      Held on March 18-19, 1998 under the auspices of H.E. the Prime minister and with the participation
      of the head of the parliamentary administration and justice committee, the UN representative in
      Lebanon, and Lebanese and foreign experts. The methodology of establishing a national policy for
      archive management as applied in Algeria was presented. The archiving status in public
      administrations and its connection to the Lebanese heritage were exposed, and a draft law for
      archiving in Lebanon was presented. The participating task forces made recommendations concerning
      the role of archives and the necessity of setting up a structure and organizing information resources
      with modern mechanized and electronic methods.

·  The Y2K Problem
      Held on September 14-15, 1998 under the auspices of H.E. the Minister of State for Administrative
      Reform and in collaboration with the Central Bank of Lebanon. The conference dealt with the Y2K or
      the Millenium problem and its national and international impact on embedded systems. Lebanon's
      readiness to face this problem was discussed through emergency guidelines and methods.

·  Human Resources Management
      Held on July 18-20, 2000 under the auspices of H.E. the Minister of State for Administrative Reform
      and with the collaboration of the Civil Service Council and participation of the Syrian and Jordanian
      ministers of State for Administrative Reform and Lebanese and foreign experts. The workshop
      presented the human resources management models applied in Jordan and Great-Britain, and the
      development of the human resources management in Lebanon was discussed. In addition to the
      establishment of a modern system in public administrations and the activation of a performance
      evaluation system, the participating task forces made recommendations concerning the necessity of
      developing training programs in order to achieve efficient management of human resources in the
      public sector.




                                                 - 21 -

·     The Role of the State
          Held on May 21-23, 2001 under the auspices of H.E. the Prime minister and with the participation of a
          great number of ministers and deputies, the Syrian Minister of State for Administrative Reform, and
          Lebanese and foreign experts. The workshop presented the Tunisian and Jordanian models of
          privatization and the related role of the government. Among the matters discussed during this event
          also: public private partnerships, economic and social privatization impacts, defining a methodology
          for redesigning the public administration, the challenges of privatization, and organized monitoring in
          Lebanon.

7.    Lessons learned
      The lessons learned from the implementation of the World Bank­funded Administrative Rehabilitation
Project can be summarized as follows:
·     The loan program evolved from being `donor-driven' to being `beneficiary-oriented' to being
`citizen-oriented', with the latter two driven by policy and strategy.
·     Well staffed and multi-disciplined Project Implementation Units (or (PIUs) are a must to effectively
handle loan programs. The evolution of the OMSAR model is a                   testament in this regards.
·     End beneficiary involvement from the inception phase of a project is a core requirement for a sustainable
project implementation. This will ensure buy-in from the              onset.
·     Implementing large scale projects in phases is advisable at times to ensure steady beneficiary capacity
building and acceptance.
·     Transfer of knowledge from similar World Bank experiences globally helps in expediting the project
lifecycle workflow.
·     Establishing `Communities-of-Practice' between PIUs in a country or in different countries should reduce
the overload on World Bank and PIU staffs involved in loan            programs and ensure better efficiency of
resource utilization.
·     Having a national or regional World Bank office involved in loan program management further reduces
delays in program implementation.
·     Short duration closing date extensions (6 months or less) have proven to be inefficient for loan
performance.
·     Performance indicators or benchmarks are recommended before the implementation of a project. This will
yield a better impact assessment.

8.    Impact of projects implemented
      The impact of projects implemented under this loan can be stated as follows.
·     Increased civil service productivity in intra-government work and in delivering services to the citizen.
This was facilitated in large by ICT productivity tools and           solutions and related training.
·     Higher level of efficiency and effectiveness in obtaining required government information made possible
by the ICT solutions. Loan projects on infrastructure,                databases and information systems
facilitated this.
·     Enhanced civil service capacity through diverse training programs and workshops. Over 3,000 end-users
were trained on ICT, some 150 advanced users were trained             on ICT administration and some 5 thematic
workshops were provided to a large group of civil servants (350 attendees on average per event).
·     Modernizing the organizational structures of a number of government ministries and agencies.
·     Modern institutional recommendations for the core agencies, namely the Civil Service Council, the
Central Inspection Board and the Court of Accounts.
·     Realization of multi-disciplined PIUs at OMSAR, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy
and Trade with national domain experts to assist in and               advance the administrative reform program.

9.    Evaluation of the Bank's performance

The Bank acted as a partner to OMSAR and the government in its efforts to rehabilitate the public
administration from the very beginning. The Bank actively                     participated in the design of the
administrative rehabilitation program and has demonstrated significant flexibility in helping OMSAR meet the



                                                      - 22 -

required dynamism for the implementation of the administrative rehabilitation program. The various missions
by bank staff to assess progress on this loan program and to facilitate better dialogue between the bank and the
concerned loan beneficiaries played a major role in advancing the administrative rehabilitation program and in
turn disbursing the loan funds.

With the successive changes in the government of Lebanon (some 5 government changes during the period of
this loan), and after an understanding of the national agenda of the new governments, the Bank was willing to
grant this loan several extensions to keep matters on track. However, these extensions were granted at times for
short periods of six months which proved to be ineffective and sometimes counterproductive because they did
not give OMSAR the proper time to scope terms of references, prepare tender documents, launch and
implement projects of longer-term prospects that are usually characterized by higher impact. In retrospect, the
Bank could have done an in-depth review of the loan performance in the year 2000 and came up with a
strategic plan accompanied by a loan extension period of at least two years.

The presence of a World Bank office in Lebanon since 4 years ago led to more frequent interaction with bank
staff and provided for timely feedback on issues pertaining to procurement and finance.

10. Evaluation of OMSAR's performance

Within the constraints represented by its limited mandates and the several changes of governments, in addition
to the new appointments of director generals at most ministries and agencies over the last 6 years, OMSAR was
able to prove its ability to efficiently implement projects related to technical assistance, Information systems
and ICT infrastructure. This ability was in part the result of transfer of information and knowledge acquired
from lessons learned by domains experts (procurement, finance and ICT) from the bank. In particular, OMSAR
was able to build a procurement capacity that was frequently commended by the bank for being the first to use
the latest bank procurement guidelines for services, goods and information systems tenders.

OMSAR was able to develop a vision for administrative reform that was approved by the cabinet in September
2001. Complementing this achievement, OMSAR prepared several national ICT strategy documents, the last of
which is the Lebanese e-Government Strategy which is currently awaiting Council of Ministers approval.
Several circulars were also issued by the Prime Minster requesting all government ministries and agencies to
coordinate with OMSAR on institutional development and ICT matters. A central repository for all studies
made on behalf of the government over the last 20 years was also established at OMSAR and supported by a
circular mandating all government ministries and agencies to check this repository before launching new
studies.

On the other hand, it is clear that OMSAR was not able to build a higher commitment to endorse all of its
initiatives in a comprehensive plan to rehabilitate the public administration. This was due mainly to the
successive changes of government which disrupted sustainable progress towards this end. For example, in the
1998-2000 timeframe, OMSAR was not allowed to employ domain specialists to further advance its
administrative rehabilitation program and expand its outreach to help the government ministries and agencies.
To address these and other issues, OMSAR is in need of a clear executive mandate with the required level of
power to institutionalize its programs with minimal level of council of minister interferences. Such a mandate
will be the main catalyst to continue the administrative rehabilitation work achieved through loan 3930-LE in a
more consistent and methodical manner.

11. Future prospects

OMSAR will continue to launch vital strategic projects and finance them through the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development loan and the European Union grant as well as other new loans, according to a
demand-driven approach within the framework of the administrative development plan which was recently set
up with the UNDP based on one specific mission and four national objectives divided into 30 activities (see
chart below), thus constituting a complete program for the coming three years. This program was approved by
the Council of Ministers (CoM) in January 2003 and has since constituted the blueprint for our national


                                                    - 23 -

    administrative reform agenda which includes over 130 individual activities. The realization of the national
    objectives and related activities within this agenda will be guided by two central strategy documents:
    ·   Administrative Reform Strategy (approved by CoM in September 1999)
    ·   Lebanese E-Government Strategy (approved by Ministerial ICT committee in January 2003 and currently
    awaiting final CoM approval)


(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information

                                     Table 3. Project Status Report Ratings for 3930-LE


         Category          12/1998    6/1999     12/1999   06/2000    12/2000    06/2001    12/2001  12/02 6/02 12/2002
           PDO                 s         s          s          s         s           s          s      s    s      s
      Implementation           s         s          s          s         s           s          s      s    s      s
       Components                                                                                                  s
      Administrative           s         s          s          s         s           s          s      s    s      s
          Reform
    Information/Office         s         s          s          s         s           s          s      s    s      s
        Technology
     Project/Program           s         s          s          s         s           s          s      s    s      s
      Implementation
      Public Service           s         s          s          s         s           s          s      s    s      s
       Improvement
           Fund
    Source: Project Status Reports for ARP




                                                         - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

A.     Outcome Indicators

   Outcome Indicator/Matrix            Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
   Meet Information Technology         No functioning information        IT infrastructure, training, and
   needs to include training in        technology equipment or           equipment were delivered to
   office technology and               network operating in the          vast majority of public sector
   equipment                           country.                          institutions.
  Design and initiate an              Civil service regulations are      Administrative Reform process
  Administrative Reform process       outdated; service provision is poorwas designed through studies and
  aimed at building a more service    and regulation is cumbersome andreviews           of       regulations.
  oriented, transparent and efficient inefficient.                       Comprehensive reform strategy on
  public service.                                                        Administrative      Reform      was
                                                                         developed but the process itself
                                                                         has not been initiated.
   Encourage participation and         Little consensus exists on        Participation and consensus
   consensus building to support       strategies for public sector      building was encouraged
   the reform and help ensure its      reform.                           through workshops and
   sustainability.                                                       inter-governmental committees.



B.     Output Indicators

   Output Indicator/Matrix             Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
   Civil Service Census
  Completion of questionnaires withSome, 80 percent of                    Done, partially through
  modules common to CSB andquestionnaires were completed.                 USAID.
  Ministry of Education
  Completion of manual data entry Some                                    Not done
  Computerized       civil    serviceNot done                             Not done
  database established.
  Database verified against MinistryNot done                              Not done
  of Finance payroll
  Irregularities   removed      fromSome                                  Some
  payroll
  Assistance to administrative
  reform
  Completion on schedule of workDone                                      Done
  plans and interim and final reports
  for major studies
  Launching Workshops on               Done                               Done, 8 workshops with high
  established schedule; maintenance                                       level of participation.
  of high-level and wide
  participation
  Information Technology
  Agency-wide information              Done                               Done; IT standards were
  coordination                                                            prepared and published,
                                                                          National E-Government
                                                                          strategy developed.
  Agency-wide technology               Done.                              Done; 5000 computers



                                                       - 25 -

  deployment.                                                     provided; 1600 employees
                                                                  trained; IT personnel was
                                                                  recruited and trained.
  Transparency of central inspection Not done                     Not done
  function through "case" tracking
  Computerization of Public Audit     Not done                    Not done
  Function
  Computerization of                  Done                        Done
  legal/commercial registry
  Establishment of Trade              Done, through MOET          Done, through MOET
  Information Center
  Database on teachers                Not done                    Not done
  Car Registration/Inspection         Not done                    Done but partially and through
  System                                                          other donors
  Office Equipment
  Delivery and installation of office Done                        Done
  equipment
  Project Implementation
  Effective Operation of TCU/IDU      Done                        Done
  Progress in capacity-building in    Some                        Some
  participating ministries and
  agencies
   Progress in facilitating training  Done                        Done
   proposals
Amendments and Extensions of ARP
   PSIF and Agency Projects
   Facilitate demand-driven           Done                        Done and implemented since
   projects under strict selection                                1997
   guidelines
   Build capacity in MOET, MOF        Done                        Done and implemented since
   and MOT                                                        1999
Note: Original outcome and output indicators are from Attachments of Memorandum of the President.




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Civil Service Census                                         0.80
Studies and Workshops                                        1.70             1.32              78
Information Technology                                      14.60             8.95              61
MOF, MOET & MOT                                                               5.84
Office Equipment                                             2.40             2.23              93
PIU operating expenses                                       0.50             1.45             290

Total Baseline Cost                                         20.00           19.79
                        Total Project Costs                 20.00           19.79
                  Total Financing Required                  20.00           19.79


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          16.50             0.00         0.50          0.00         17.00
                                 (16.50)           (0.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (17.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         2.50          0.00          2.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.50)          (0.00)       (2.50)
4. Implementation                 0.00              0.00         1.76          0.00          1.76
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.76)          (0.00)       (1.76)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          16.50             0.00         4.76          0.00         21.26
                                 (16.50)           (0.00)      (4.76)          (0.00)       (21.26)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          8.89             3.64         0.72           0.56        13.81
                                  (8.89)          (3.64)       (0.72)         (0.56)       (13.81)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         4.78           0.00         4.78
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (4.78)         (0.00)       (4.78)
4. Implementation                 0.00             0.00         1.76           0.00         1.76

                                                - 27 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.76)            (0.00)           (1.76)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                8.89               3.64              7.26             0.56             20.35
                                           (8.89)             (3.64)            (7.26)            (0.56)           (20.35)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Civil Service Census            0.80                                                                      0.0
Studies & Workshops             1.70                                  1.32                               77.6
Information Technology         14.60         0.45                     8.95         0.45                  61.3     100.0
MOF, MOET & MOT                                                       5.84         0.60
Office Equipment                2.40         0.05                     2.24         0.05                  93.3     100.0
PIU Operating Expenses          0.50                                  1.45                               290.0




                                                           - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/31/1995               9    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                            LEGAL COUNSEL (1);
                                            INFORMATION OFFICER
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            ADVISOR (1); LT
                                            CONSULTANT (1); SR.
                                            PUB. ADMIN. SPECIALIST
                                            (1); CHIEF ADMIN. OFF
                                            (1);
                                            SR.INFORMATICS.SPC.
                                            (1); CONSULTANT (1).


 Supervision

              11/11/1995               7    SR. TECH. ASSIST. OFF. (1);      S               S
                                            DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            ADVISOR (1); INFORMATION
                                            OFFICER (1); TASK
                                            MANAGER (1); SR. PROJECTS
                                            OFFICER (1); SR.
                                            INFORMATICS SPC. (1)
              05/31/1996               4    SR. INFORMATICS SPC. (1);        S               S
                                            DISBURS./PROCUR. ASST. (1);
                                            TASK MANAGER (1); SR.
                                            PROJECTS OFFICER (1)
              12/07/1996               4    SR. INFORMATICS SPEC. (1);       S               S
                                            TASK MANAGER (1); PSM
                                            SPECIALIST (CON) (1);
                                            PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
              03/27/1997               2    SR. INFORMATICS SPEC. (1);       S               U
                                            TASK MANAGER (1)
              12/04/1997               5    SR. INFORM. SPECIALIST (1);      S               S
                                            TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            ACCOUNTING SPEC. (1); SR.
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
              05/23/1998               3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); INFORM. TECHNOLOGY
                                            SPC
                                            (1)
              10/15/1998               1    SR. INFORMAT. (1)                S               S
              10/11/1999               1    SR. INFORMAT. SPEC (1)           S               S



                                             - 30 -

               04/15/2000              2   TEAM LEADER (1); SR.               S    S
                                           INFORM. SPECIALIST (1)
               11/10/2000              1   TEAM LEADER (1)                    S    S
               06/14/2001              2   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1)
               12/21/2001              2   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           INFORMATION SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               6/12/2002               2   TEAM LEADER (1),                   S    S
                                           INFORMATION SPECIALIST
                                           1)

 ICR
               11/19/2003             3     TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (2).



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 N/A                        238,000
  Supervision                           N/A                        628,000
  ICR                                   N/A                         20,000
  Total                                 N/A                        886,000




                                            - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents pertaining to the Project were utilized in the completion of Implementation
Completion Report:
(i) Memorandum of the President;
(ii) Loan Agreement;
(iii) Amendments to the Loan Agreement;
(iv) Back-to-Office Reports including Mission Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports;
(v) Project Progress Reports;
(vi) Financial Statements;
(vii) Various Studies and Reviews of Sector Ministries.




                                                  - 34 -

- 35 -

