Report No. 718a-CM                                                                FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
SmalI and Medium Scale Enterprise Project
Cameroori
May 15, 1975
Development Finance Companies Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the internaLtional Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for off cial use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVAIENTS
The CFA Franc is fixed with respect to the.French Franc
(FFi = CFAF 5o) and, thus, floats with respect to the
US dollar. The following approximations have been used
throughout the report:
US $1       CFAF 225
CFAF  1   =  US $0.oo44
CFAF  1 million   =   US $4,444
ABBREVIATIONS
AFCA     Association pour la Formation des Cadres de
l'Industrie et de l'Administration
BEAC     Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
BCD      Banque Camerounaise de Développement
CAPME    Centre National d'Assistance aux Petites et
Moyennes Entreprises
CCCE     Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
FAC      Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
FOGAPE  Fonds d'Aide et de Garantie des Crédits
aux Petites et Moyennes Ehtreprises Camerounaiees
PME      Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
SATEC    Société d'Aide Technique et de Coopération
SME      Small-and Medium-Scale Enterprise
SNI      Société Nationale d'Investissement
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This report was prepared on the basis of missions to Cameroon
in February/March, July and October 1974 by Messrs. A. Nespoulous-Neuville,
R.M. Westébbe, R. Vaurs, A.D. Osei and J.O. Bloom.



APPRAISAL OF A
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
CAMEROON
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY ................................................. i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION            .......................                   1
II. THE SETTING.                                                        2
Trends in Economy.                                           2
Cameroonian Industry in the Economy.                         2
Government Industrial Policies.                              3
Promotion of Small-Scale Enterprises.                        5
Problems of Small Enterprise Promotion.                      6
III.   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO      .............................SME.8
Background.                                                  8
CAPME.                                                       8
SATEC.                                                       9
AFCA .12
IV. FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS .14
The Financial Setting .14
Banque Camerounaise de Developpement (BCD)                  16
V. THE PROJECT .24
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION.                                        31
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS .32
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1             Investment Incentives
ANNEX 2             BEAC:  Rediscount Terms and SMIE Promotion



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Technical Assistance:
ANNEX 3A SATEC:      Status of Operations at February, 1974
ANNEX 3B SATEC:      Proposed Program
ANNEX 3C AFCA:       Proposed Annual Budget:  July 1975-Junel977
Banque Camerounaise de Developpement:
ANNEX 4A             Board of Directors
ANNEX 4B             Organization
ANNEX 4C             Personnel
ANNEX 4D             Interest Rates
ANNEX 4E             Credit and Guarantee Approvals by Term
ANNEX 4F             Credit and Guarantee Approvals by Sector and Type
ANNEX 4G             Industrial Loan Approvals
ANNEX 4H             Loan Portfolio
Analysis of Arrears of Principal
ANNEX 4I             Equity Portfolio
ANNEX 4J             Balance Sheets
ANNEX 4K             Profit and Loss Statements
ANNEX 4L             Assumptions for Financial Projections
ANNEX 4M             Projected Loan Approvals
ANNEX 4N             Projected Cash Flow
ANNEX 40             Projected Balance Sheets
ANNEX 4P             Projected Income Statements
ANNEX 4Q             Financial Ratios
ANNEX 4R             Consortial Credits
ANNEX 4S             Expected Real Financial Charges on Subloans
ANNEX 4T             Job Descriptions:  Financial Analyst
Industrial Engineer
ANNEX 4U             Statement of General Policy
ANNEX 5              Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



CAMEROON
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INTERPRISE PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        This report recommends an IDA credit to the Banque Camerounaise de
Developpement (BCD) of US $3.0 million equivalent to provide term financing
of a small- and medium-scale enterprise (SME) project in Cameroon. The proj-
ect would be financed jointly with the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Econo-
mique (CCCE) and UNDP would provide its support of technical assistance to
three technical assistance agencies and to BCD. In addition to supporting
productive investments, the proposed project would seek to enhance BCD's ac-
tivity as an effective development institution, to improve and coordinate
technical assistance to SME and to provide experience concerning effective
policies and programs for SME assistance.
ii.       Industry has taken a slowly growing role in the economy of Cameroon,
contributing 25% of GDP in the fiscal year ending June 30, 1973. Within the
seetor, Cameroonian enterprises have played a relatively small part. Most
Cameroonian firms appear to operate in the "informal" sector, characterized by
use of traditional technologies and management methods, finance provided by
non-institutional sources and operating independent from regulations, in con-
trast to the larger "modern" enterprises. Although available data are in-
complete, many of these firms seem to be well adapted to local conditions and
hence make a significant contribution to the economy in terms of employment
and use of domestic inputs. While the Government has provided incentives to
industrial investment through tax and tariff exemptions and other measures,
SME investment is probably constrained rather than stimulated by these measures
due to the cumbersome administrative procedures.  Consequently, the pool of
potential SME entrepreneurs, comprising artisans, traders and educated but in-
experienced Cameroonians, has not been effectively tapped.
iii.      The technical assistance to SME would be coordinated by Centre
National d'Assistance aux Petites et Moyennes Entreprises (CAPME), a Government
organization which started operations in 1969 to assist the SME sector and to
help the Government in policy formulation and gathering of information on the
sector. CAPME's: role and organization is currently under revision in a UNDP
study. The two other technical assistance agencies are the Societe d'Aide
Technique et de Cooperation (SATEC) and the Association pour la Formation des
Cadres de l'Industrie et de l'Administration (AFCA). SATEC is a French Gov-
ernment-owned aid agency which has been working in Cameroon since 1968. It
assists entrepreneurs in marketing, technical and feasibility studies on proj-
ects, commencing from project identification up to project start-up. Since its
start, SATEC has assisted 88 entrepreneurs; 17 projects with a total investment
of some CFAF 850 million are operating, while 7 more for CFAF 250 million are
under construction and 12 firms representing CFAF 90 million have failed.



SATEC is staffed by 9 professionals and its budget is currently CFAF 80 million
a year of which 50% is provided by the Government of Cameroon. AFCA is a
French private non-profit organization which has been working in Cameroon since
1962 mainly engaged in training of upper and middle-level managers in Govern-
ment and industry. It has a unit (AFCA/PME) for assisting artisans and small
enterprises with management training and consulting service. It also assists
in the organization of artisan cooperatives. Since its start it has provided
training to nearly 500 small entrepreneurs. The unit's consulting service is
directed mainly to former students and currently 70 entrepreneurs are clients.
AFCA/PME is presently staffed by 3 professionals and works on a budget of CFAF
20 million.
iv.       BCD is a majority Government-owned development bank, established in
1960. It is a multipurpose bank, financing industry, agriculture, trade,
craft, housing, etc. In the fiscal year ending June 30, 1974, it approved
loans and guarantees totalling CFAF 7.5 million of which somewhat less than
20% was for industrial projects. Of the industrial credits, 25% of amounts
and 70% by number was for small or medium-sized enterprises. Between 1970 and
1974, BCD financed 155 SME to an amount of CFAF 600 million.
v.        Under the proposed project, it is expected that about 80 SME would
receive subloans; approximately 65 small subloans, averaging CFAF 11 million,
and 17 larger loans, averaging CFAF 70 million, would be granted by BCD. The
effective interest cost to subborrowers of 11% per annum includes a spread
for BCD of 2.75%, taxes of 2% and, on smaller subloans, a guarantee fee of
1.25% for loans to enterprises locally defined as small- and medium-scale
enterprises (petites et moyennes entreprises or PME), or a fee of the same
amount to be paid to Government for assumption of the foreign exchange risk.
The proposed guarantee fund would automatically cover 80% of loans to PME and
would be self-liquidating with permanent losses of up to 14%; any additional
funding required would come from Government. Loans to subprojects receiving
BCD's financing up to CFAF 30 million would not require prior Bank approval
and review procedures for subloans above that amount would be coordinated with
CCCE. To strengthen BCD's appraisal and resource allocation capabilities, an
industrial lending unit would be created with the assistance of two financial
analysts and an engineer financed by UNDP.
vi.       Pending completion of the UNDP review of CAPME, this agency will, in
addition to its other functions, more actively assume the coordination of tech-
nical assistance to SME, gather information on the sector and advise Government
on policy matters affecting SME. Under the project SATEC and AFCA, with UNDP
assistance, would expand their present activities focusing respectively on pro-
motion of small to medium size and on projects and training of small entre-
preneurs and assistance to former trainees. The staff of the arganizations
would be expanded with increased efforts to train local staff and each would
geographically diversify their activity.
vii.      The project is expected to generate some US $11 million in invest-
ments, supported by about US $3 million in technical assistance. The IDA credit
of US $3.0 million would be used exclusively to support investments. IDA and



- iii -
CCCE would jointly finance a little over one-half of the total investment
cost of subprojects with entrepreneurs providing a little over one-fourth and
BCD the remainder (about one-fifth) in the form of medium-term loans redis-
countable with the Central Bank. UNDP would finance 60% of the technical
assistance, and Government 40%.
viii.     The improved appraisal and assistance procedures to be instituted
under the project at BCD and the technical assistance agencies are expected to
stimulate both more and better SME projects. Increased coordination among the
technical assistance agencies as well as broader geographic diversification
and increased emphasis on smaller enterprises should improve their cost-
effectiveness. The strengthening of BCD's staff and procedures should help to
make it a more effective development institution. Although precise estimates
and not possible, the investment financing to SME is expected to support some
80 enterprises, contributing to industrial entrepreneurship, output and employ-
ment; economic returns on subprojects are expected to exceed the financial
returns, due to the substantial unemployment and under-exploitation of many
local raw materials.
ix.       Subject to the conditions listed in Chapter VII, the project is suit-
able for a Credit of US $3.0 million equivalent.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Following a request made by the Minister of Planning simultaneously
to the Bank Group and to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
for financial assistance to support a Government program to promote small and
medium-size Cameroonian enterprise (SME), a Bank mission visited Cameroon in
February-March 1974. The mission was joined by representatives of CCCE for
most of its stay.  The two missions reached a broad agreement between them-
selves and with the Government on the general features of a possible joint
Bank-CCCE project and on the action which would be required on the part of the
Government to make such a project feasible. Bank missions in July and October
held more detailed discussion of issues with the Government and the various
concerned agencies. This report recommends an IDA credit of US$3 million for
term financing of SME projects through the Banque Camerounaise de Developpement
(BCD), a majority Governnent-owned devevelopment bank. CCCE would provide
parallel financing of investments and UNDP would provide financing of technical
assistance.
1.02      The principal objectives of the proposed credit are:
(a) to provide term financing on appropriate terms and to simplify
administrative procedures for the establishment and expansion of
small and medium-scale manufacturing, artisanal, service, transport,
repair and construction firms;
(b) to bolster BCD's role as an effective development institution by
strengthening its appraisal and resource allocation capabilities,
internal organization and procedures, and resource base;
(c) to improve the technical assistance facilities for SME, sustaining
on-going efforts while fostering coordinated action by the relevant
agencies; and
(d) to learn more, for both the Bank and Government, about effective
policies and procedures for SME promotion and support and the bene-
fits accruing therefrom.
1.03      This is expected to be the first in a series of credits designed to
assist Cameroonian entrepreneurs and institutions. Given the state of the
art in assisting small-scale entrepreneurs in Africa and the complexities of
the institutional set-up in Cameroon regarding small enterprise development,
the proposed project has a substantial experimental aspect.



-2-
II. THE SETTING
Trends in Economy
2.01      By the end of the 1960's, Cameroon appeared to be well on the way
toward achieving its basic growth target of doubling real per capita income
in the 20-year period 1960-1980. But the growth rate, which averaged 6.5% in
real terms in the sixties, was sharply reduced to less than 3% in 1970-71,
mainly as a result of a drop in the world market price of cocoa and interior
drought conditions affecting the other main crops, cotton, foodstuffs and
groundnuts. Moreover, in the late 1960's, private investment had begun to
fall off, partly because the most obvious and easiest opportunities for import
substitution of consumer goods were exploited, and slowed further as a conse-
quence of the recession of the early 1970's. In early 1973, terms of trade
changed in Cameroon's favor due to steep rises in cocoa, coffee and timber
prices.  A growth target for the next few years of about 4 to 5% in real terms
(more realistic than the 7.3% in the five-year plan 1971/72-1975/76) is pre-
mised on the assumption that Cameroon will be able to cover a large resource
gap in foreign exchange. Accordingly, priority will have to be given to
promoting exports and replacing imports. The above target implies that manu-
facturing, which accounted for 12% of total GDP in 1972/73, would maintain a
yearly growth rate of about 10%, as compared with 8.6% annually between 1965/
66 and 1972/73. A recent industrial report by the Bank indicates that there
is substantial scope for industrial expansion on the basis of both further im-
port substitution and processing of agricultural products for export markets.
New investments in industry would be facilitated if steps were taken to improve
governmental industrial policies (see paras. 2.06 to 2.11).
Cameroonian Industry in the Economy
2.02      There is no comprehensive data on Cameroonian enterprise although
various partial surveys give some indication of its dimensions. In looking at
this data, it us useful to differentiate between the "modern" and "informal"
sectors of business activity. Informal sector firms are generally small
Cameroonian-owned enterprises mainly in the growing urban areas with expanding
markets.  These firms number in the thousands and are generally not subject
to official regulations. Although there is not an adequate data base for esti-
mating the relative importance of the output and potential of firms in the
informal sector, their contribution to employment is probably considerably more
substantial than that of modern enterprises and they probably rely more heavily
on domestic inputs. In contrast, the modern type of enterprise normally has
a legal business structure, is subject to minimum wage and fiscal legislation,
and utilizes reasonably well-developed systens for accounting, production and
marketing. Most firms in this category have reasonable access to banking and
financing services, are normally foreign controlled, and rely to some extent
on expatriate managers and technicians; in the industrial sector, such firms
have access to significant fiscal, tariff and other incentives.



-3-
2.03      The best data available on modern sector firms is a survey under-
taken in 1970 to vhich 1504 firms responded, yielding the profile in the fol-
loving table.
Cameroonian                 Foreign                     Total
No. of    Avg. No.        No. of    Avg. No.         No. of    Avg. No.
Firms     Employees       Firms      Employees       Firms     Employees
Primary     6            27           108          213           114         203
Manu-
facturing 32            33           211          100          243           91
Con-
struction  6            29            82          135           88          127
Transport  10            96            65          141            75         135
Services    78           77           354           15          432           26
Trade       94           20           458           20           552          20
Total    226           45         1,278           63        1,504           60
2.04      As can be seen from the table Cameroonian firms constituted only 15%
of the respondents, three-fourths of them in the service and trade sectors.
In manufacturing only 32 Cameroonian-owned firis were identified with an aver-
age employment of 33 workers, about one-third that of the average payroll of
foreign-owned manufacturing enterprises. Even the non-manufacturing sectors
are dominated by foreign firms.  Although the number of firms and the extent
of Cameroonian participation have certainly increased since the survey, the
basic structural patterns persist.
2.05      It is clear, however, that in all sectors it is an important Govern-
ment objective to encourage the further development of Cameroonian businessmen,
particularly those undertaking productive activities. The result is the pro-
motional effort described in the following paragraphs.
Governnent Industrial Policies
2.06      Cameroon's economic system is officiallly described as planned
liberalism. The Governient has tried to be pragmatic in the choice of economic
policies and in promoting Cameroonization.  Private and profit-oriented enter-
prises are encouraged and foreign investment has been favored in sectors which
are consldered to have strong linkages with domestic production and large in-
come distribution effects, such as agricultural processing and forestry pro-
ducts. The Government influences industry through various means including
custom tariffa, investment lncentives and price controls. Recently, Government
has actively sponsored some dozen large industrial ventures, seeking to accel-
erate large-scale industrialization as well.
2.07      Cameroon is a member of the Union Douaniere et Economique de
l'Afrique Centrale (Customs and Economic Union of Central Africa) along with
C.A.R., Congo and Gabon. Consequently, most duties are fixed by treaty with



-4 -
some relatively amall supplemental taxes which vary.  Custom tariffs consist
of entry duties applicable to goods from all countries of origin plus various
other duties applicable only to countries other than those of EEC and OCAM.
The tariff structure does not appear to provide excessive encouragement for
domestic industrialization; tariff rates on capital equipment are high (average
about 40%) and rates on finished products and intermediate materials range from
40% to 70%.
2.08      Hovever, the Government grants exemptions from tariffs and from a
variety of other taxes through its investment code, summarized in Annex 1.
For the enterprises considered of particular economic importance, the Govern-
ment can also guarantee certain conditions of legal, economic and financial
continuity, quota protection on competing imports, the supply of labor, renewal
of export permits, etc. The code includes a special regime for small and
medium-scale enterprises including duty reductions on imported equipment and
materials (see para. 2.13).  Hence, few SHE firms pay the published tariff
rates on imported capital equipment.
2.09      The application of the investment code and other measures could be
vastly improved and rationalized. First, the application procedure is lengthy
and difficult. Second, criteria for awarding incentives are not clearly speci-
fied. As a result, the extent of net effective protection given to individual
investors may vary considerably and is not consistently related te employment,
regional development, balance of payments or public revenues objectives.
Third, decisions taken to favor foreign private investors for certain large
scale enterprises which often get effective monopolies do not consider the im-
pact on smaller Cameroonian enterprises in the same field.
2.10      No provision of the investment code deals with price control.  The
present price control system sets ceiling prices for many goods actually manu-
factured or imported by adding specified percentage margins to certain identi-
fied types of variable costs. Thus, the system tends to encourage inefficiency
and inaccurate accounting, as profits will increase with costs. Moreover, long
delays in authorizing increases in selling prices following increases in raw
material prices and other costs entail unpredictable risks for enterprises and
may deter new investors.
2.11      Before a full set of reforms of tariffs, investment code and price
control can be suggested, with a view to maintaining the competitiveness of
domestic production with imports, developing labor intensive methods and re-
specting some macroeconomic constraints (public revenues, balance of payment,
regional balance, etc.) on future economic growth, further study is needed to
better assess the impact of the current system on typical sectors and enter-
prises.  A Bank basic economic mission, recently returned fron Cameroon, has
suggested to Government a thorough review of the tariff and incentive systems
with a view towards recommendations for reform.



- 5-
Promotion of Small-Scale Enterprises
2.12      Small and medium-scale enterprises (SME) are defined by several
criteria in Cameroon. The development bank (BCD), for example, divides arti-
sanal and small industrial loans from large industrial loans by a limit of
CFAF 30 million (about US $130,000) in the amount of the loan. On the other
hand SME are defined in the regulations relating to interest rates (arrete of
June 29, 1974) as firms whose management is Cameroonian with 51% of capital
held by nationals and meet one of the following three conditions: (i) it
pays the minimum tax ("forfait"); (ii) its short-term rediscount ceiling at
the Central Bank is not above CFAF 25 million; or (iii) its equity is not
above CFAF 50 million. The same definition is used by the Decree of April 2,
1975 establishing a credit guarantee fund (see para. 5.06). The Central Bank,
on the other hand, uses criteria based on tax liabilities and total equity.
Clearly, a relevant operational definition must be related to the Cameroonian
environment and, in individual cases, to the technology and management of a
project. Nevertheless, the approximate ranges to be used with reference to
this project are as follows:
Investment         Typical Employment
(CFAF million)            (Number)
Small                  up to  40             up to 15
Medium                 up to 150              up to 50
Large                  over  150             over  50
At the lower end of small-scale, artisans are defined as independent workers
or small industrialists who manage their business and participate in its phys-
ical work.
2.13      Help for artisans has been confined to the setting up of three arti-
san cooperatives and the organization of annual fairs to market handicraft
wares. Small and medium-scale enterprises currently receive only limited spe-
cial official support. Technical assistance is provided for them by the
institutions described in Chapter III. Industrial enterprises with fewer than
five employees are exempt from the 4% internal turnover tax and pay only an
11% business income tax instead of 22%. (In fact, many of them evade all
taxes.) As mentioned above, the investment code contains a special regime for
small and medium-scale enterprises, called the PME regime (PIE for "Petites et
Moyennes Entreprises", or Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises). Eligible enter-
prises are not defined. Any firm which is not of sufficient importance to
justify the granting of benefits under the normal regime, but whose operations
are nevertheless of economic interest to the country, or any firm, whatever
its size, which prefers the simple advantages under the PME regime, may apply
for it. The regime consists of a reduction of duty on imported equipment from
normal rates between 20% and 60% to a flat 5% ad valorem. Firms qualifying
for the PME regime may also apply for the "TIP" (for Taxe Interieure a la
Production or Inland Turnover Tax) regime, in which reduction of import tariffs
on raw materials is partially compensated by imposition of a tax on finished
products.



- 6 -
2.14      In practice, the application of the investment code for small and
medium-scale enterprises, including the PME regime has been cumbersome, and
to some extent counter-productive. Some small entrepreneurs who might have
invested in the absence of the regime are not willing to invest unless and
until they receive the concessions under the regime. This may lead to long
periods of uncertainty and, in some case, to the abandonment of projects.
Accordingly a simplification of the application of the PME regime would be a
part of the implementation of the present project (see para 5.07 and Annex 1,
para 19).
Problems of Small Enterprise Promotion
2.15      A discussion of the problems of small enterprise creation and entre-
preneurial development in Cameroon must, given the limited available data, be
based on the necessarily modest experience of techncial assistance agencies,
and the impressions of entrepreneurs, governmental authorities, bankers, and
technical assistance agencies.
2.16      Entrepreneurial talent that exists in Cameroon can be encouraged and
developed through a package of technical, financial and managerial assistance,
the precise nature of which depends on the type of entrepreneurs in question
and the size of their enterprises. Three main types of Cameroonian entrepre-
neurs may be distinguished in the current small and medium-scale enterprise
structure: those having experience in handicrafts, those with past involvement
in non-industrial activities and those with some technical or advanced educa-
tion but little practical experience.
2.1.7     The first category consists of successful artisans who have the
capacity to expand their activities into small-scale industrial enterprises.
Their main problem is in handling a change of scale in their enterprise that
often implies some transformation of their methods. Although they have some
technical know-how, they need basic training in management. In addition, such
firms require access to short-term capital primarily, rather than medium and
long-term finance for equipment, as their investment needs are small given the
labor intensive character of their operations. The small size of such firms
tends to make the delivery of effective technical assistance expensive.
2.18      In the same category but a step more advanced are experienced arti-
sans who have achieved some success as managers and who want to move into the
iaedium-size sector. These entrepreneurs face formidable problems of organiza-
tion, financial and personnel management, adoption of appropriate technologies
and acquisition of both short and long-term capital. Past experience shows
that, because of the complexities involved, only a rather limited number of
Cameroonian entrepreneurs have succeeded in making the transition to medium-
size enterprises.
2.19      The second category consists of businessmen who have had demonstrated
success in foreign and domestic trade, transportation or real estate specula-
tion. These businessmen of ten operate a number of enterprises which depend on
the personal continuous involvement of the entrepreneur for their success and



-7-
tend to do less well if he is not involved. The quality of bookkeeping is
poor in such firms so that their real profitability is difficult to ascertain.
Cameroonian firms in this category have recently experienced difficulties as
competition increased, leading to reduced profit margins. In real estate, de-
mand for building space has levelled off reducing speculative opportunities.
Entrepreneurs in this category have begun to move into manufacturing but have
difficulty in obtaining commercial bank financing because of their existing
relatively large current liabilities. Characteristically, they mix the finan-
cial aspects of all their activities together, thus complicating financial
analysis. These enterprises can utilize relatively large amounts of technical
assistance for production, procurement, marketing and elementary bookkeeping.
2.20      The third category, educated professionals who have gone into busi-
ness, may have easier relations with governmental administrative agencies and
banks but they often do not have the necessary experience to run a business.
These technicians usually have a university education normally in fields unre-
lated to industry or business management. Often they start enterprises as a
part-time activity while keeping their professional positions. They use tech-
nical assistance when available but are often capable of mounting fairly com-
plex operations without it. In some cases they directly recruit expatriate
technicians.
2.21      In Cameroon, each of the above three categories is a source of
potential entrepreneurs. In virtually all categories, the entrepreneur is
seldom the only investor. Entrepreneurs frequently have access to traditional
capital sources in their ethnic groups and this has been an essential element
in fostering new productive enterprise in Cameroon. Thus, even when facing
liquidity problems in commerce and having no access to bank credit, such entre-
preneurs can often fïnd funds for new investments. Silent partners and unre-
corded loans makes normal banking relationships difficult to maintain with
such enterprises. The traditional capital market is based on a high degree of
mutual confidence between participants, which allows informality in contractual
relations. Such investors or lenders sometimes require that particular family
or tribe members be hired often regardless of their qualifications. Technical
assistance agencies have not had much impact on this aspect of the management
of firms they have tried to assist. By institutionalizing the availability of
credit and technical assistance to small firms, investments can be promoted
among a wider group of potential entrepreneurs.
2.22      Most Cameroonian businesses are reluctant to come under the scrutiny
of any kind of administrative agency. Most of them escape official controls
and regulations relating to employment, wages, and tax payments. However, in
some cases, profitable "informal" enterprises also have to meet the competition
of similar usually larger enterprises enjoying the benefits of the investment
incentive system. Accordingly, any promotion program for small and medium-
scale enterprises should not be used as a front for tax collections, else en-
trepreneurs will not come forward. Agencies involved in such efforts should
retain the confidence of the entrepreneur and not serve as the Trojan horses
of the Government.



-8-
2.23      Nearly 80 percent of industrial investment occurs in or near the two
main urban centers, Yaounde and Douala. There is similar concentration of the
small enterprises which require proximity to sizeable consumer markets. Sec-
ondary towns such as Mbalmayo, close to Yaounde, have attracted some industrial
activities but then usually because of special local advantages, such as low
cost land and availability of utilities and transport on terms equivalent to
those in Yaounde. Experience indicates major efforts to spread small and
medium enterprises to other centers would probably succeed only in the context
of comprehensive regional programs including provisions for infrastructure,
utilities, transport and related services.
2.24      It would, however, be only prudent to recognize the difficulties in
lending to small and medium-scale enterprises of the type found in Cameroon
today. A substantial effort will be needed to produce a flow of creditworthy
dossiers for financing of promising enterprises run by qualified managers.
Thus, a major technical assistance effort is called for at the level of the
entrepreneur, matched by an active industrial financing policy on the part of
the development bank, BCD.
III. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SME
Background
3.01      There are currently three active organizations charged with providing
technical assistance to SME: Centre National d'Assistance aux Petites et
Moyennes Entreprises (CAPME), Societe d'Aide Technique et de Cooperation (SATEC)
and Association pour la Formation des Cadres de l'Industrie et de l'Administra-
tion (AFCA), as described below in detail. SATEC and AFCA have been operating
in Cameroon for more than six years; CAPME, the focus of a previous UNIDO/ILO
project, while awaiting the outcome of an ongoing UNDP study of its role,
organization and staffing, has made a start in assisting PME in management,
and in repair and maintenance of industrial equipment. CAPME has been desig-
nated by law as the coordinator of technical assistance to SME.
CAPME
3.02      The Centre d'Assistance aux Petites et Moyennes Entreprises (CAPME),
which started operations in 1969, has been given a broad mandate of assisting
firms ranging from small artisans to medium-scale industries, researching and
promoting project possibilities, recommending industrial policy to-Government,
training entrepreneurs, and coordinating all technical assistance to SME in
Cameroon. With UNDP and Government funding of US$0.8 million, ILO helped estab-
lish and manage CAPME from 1969 to 1971. The project was not fully successful.
CAPME was little active during 1971 and 1972. A related UNIDO/UNDP project,
Programme Pilote d'Entretien et de Reparation (Pilot Program in Maintenance
and Repair or PPER), which was to provide machine-tool training and repair
services in a workshop, was integrated in CAPME's Technical Department in 1973.



-9-
3.03      To strengthen CAPME and intensify its activities, Government ap-
pointed a new and competent Director-General of CAPME, the former head of the
West Cameroon Development Agency, and merged PPER into CAPME. Simultaneously,
UNDP responded to a Government request in 1973 and has undertaken a study of
the appropriate role, organization and staffing for the combined CAPME/PPER
as well as its relationship to other technical assistance agencies; a UNDP
and a UNIDO consultant began work in April 1974. CAPME's current staff con-
sists of the Director-General, two heads of Departments (one engineer and one
accountant), two senior staff members, seven technicians, supporting staff
and, at the ex-PPER, 11 workers of various qualifications; the yearly budget
is equivalent to US $0.4 million.
3.04      Operations.  Since mid-1974, the workshop (ex-PPER) has effected
more than 100 maintenance or repair operations. However CAPME has not yet
been able to fulfill completely the coordinating role assigned it.
3.05      Prospects and Recommendations.  A first UNDP report on the role and
organization of CAPME is expected in mid-1975. One of its main recommendations
will be how to achieve the coordinating role given to CAPME by its statutes
and that the Government is still expecting CAPME to play. Progress has been
made towards this objective during negotiations by finalizing draft conventions
to be signed between CAPME and SATEC and between CAPME and AFCA.
3.06      Pending the conclusions of the UNDP study, CAPME could, inter alia,
begin to fulfill three vital functions.  First, CAPME should initiate systema-
tic collection and analysis of information on the SME sector, along lines to
be agreed with the Bank. Second, CAPME should give attention to the policy
review responsibility with which it was charged by its original establishing
legislation, evaluating the impact of present fiscal, monetary and customs
policies on SME and proposing new policies to foster SME development in con-
junction with the Ministries of Industrial and Commercial Development, Finance,
and Plan. Third, the Government should use CAPME as its advisor on policy
matters regarding technical assistance and delegate to it implementation of
policy decisions taken regarding SATEC and AFCA. As a start, CAPME has been
consulted on the two-year programs prepared by SATEC and AFCA and it has been
agreed that CAPME would monitor their activity.
SATEC
3.07      SATEC is a wholly French Government-owned aid agency established in
1956; although nominally controlled by CCCE, SATEC's agencies operate autono-
mously. SATEC began work in Cameroon in 1968. Its staff of nine is divided
between offices in Yaounde and Douala; an engineer in the Paris headquarters
provides full-time support.
3.08      Method.  Project ideas originate from entrepreneurs who approach
SATEC for help or from SATEC itself which will then seek out an entrepreneur
and assist in a preliminary market and technical study, drawing on the exper-
tise of its Paris office as needed. Once the project is sufficiently defined,
SATEC aids the entrepreneur in securing financing and investment incentives.



- 10 -
Detailed engineering and marketing plans are developed, sometimes with parti-
cipation of the equipment supplier, and SATEC continues its support through
project construction and start-up. Although CAPME is supposed to take over
technical assistance after the fourth month of production, SATEC has occasion-
ally provided continuing assistance as CAPME was unable to do so.
3.09       Operations.  As of October 1974, SATEC had established contacts with
entrepreneurs regarding 88 project ideas. According to SATEC, the status of
those still active was as follows:
Number          Total investments           Direct
of firms           (CFAF million)         employment
Operating                17                    849                   383
No longer operating    12                        93                  133
Under creation            7                     255                  168
Awaiting approvals
or financing           13                    n.a.                 n.a.
Under study               16                    n.a.                 n.a.
Details on these projects are at Annex 3A.  The range of projects realized is
very broad, from total investments of less than CFAF 2 million (US$9,000) and
four employees to a factory employing 140 at an investment cost of CFAF 400
million (US$1.8 million); prospective operations are on average smaller than
past operations. Excluding the three largest projects of over CFAF 150 million
each, the average total investment falls between CFAF 15 and 40 million
(US$ 67,000 to $175,000). Of the 29 projects classified by SATEC as awaiting
approvals or financing, or under study as of October 1974, only some 5 or 6
are still active and likely to be implemented.
3.10       Evaluation.  SATEC has been successful in helping to create and
nurture SME firms and, perhaps equally important, in establishing viable work-
ing relationships with entrepreneurs, bankers and Government officials.  This
success is due largely to the quality and cooperative attitude of SATEC's
staff.  Although 12 of the 29 enterprises which actually started operations
failed, these accounted for only 10% of investment in all projects; final
losses would be further reduced by liquidation of residual assets. Moreover,
almost half of the failures were for unpredictable reasons (e.g., jailing of
the entrepreneur for reasons unrelated to the projects and unforeseeable by
SATEC). The economic benefits of the entreprises created are difficult to
assess as available information is scanty and unreliable. Nevertheless, it
appears that the economic rates of return on the productive projects range
from substantially less than zero to perhaps 80%; for the service projects
where it is difficult to assess a rate of return, the economic benefit seems
adequate. Moreover, there presumably is a longer-term benefit of stimulating
entrepreneurship and management development although this is difficult to mea-
sure. The income distribution impact of these projects is unclear. On other
economic criteria, SATEC's performance is good. About one-half of the invest-
ment has been in import substituting enterprises, some 40% in services or
practically non-tradeable goods, and the remaining 10% in processing local raw



- il -
materials largely for domestic consumption. The investment cost per job in
SATEC-assisted enterprises which actually started operations is substantially
less than the national average in Cameroon, i.e. about US$8,000 compared to
US$16,000 per job; including the costs of SATEC's assistance raises the cost
to some US$11,000 per job. Given the fact that these are small industrial
units, rather than artisanal, the technology choice and capital cost of these
projects seems appropriate.
3.11      Staff.  SATEC's staff of nine comprises the mission chief, an
engineer, an architect, two financial and economic analysts and four French
National Service volunteers. The mission chief and engineer are generalists
while the four volunteers are selected by SATEC for their specialist skills
(e.g., a textile specialist and a food processing engineer); in addition to the
full-time services of another engineer at SATEC's Paris headquarters, the mis-
sion in Cameroon is provided support by short-term visits of SATEC specialists
as required. The financial and economic analysts, both Cameroonian, are
chiefly responsible for the market studies, financial projections and liaison
with banks and Government; these two counterparts are the first successes in
SATEC's effort to Cameroonize its staff (see para. 3.17).
3.12      Budget and Funding.  Since beginning operations early in 1968, the
SATEC mission has cost a total of about CFAF 350 million (US$ 1.5 million)
equivalent to about 25% of the capital cost of projects promoted; the cost cur-
rently runs about CFAF 80 million (US$ 355,000) per year. The bulk of the
money goes for expatriate salaries although these are greatly reduced as the
specialist engineer volunteers receive no salary from SATEC. The operation
was originally entirely financed by the French aid agency, Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC), with the Cameroonian Government progressively assuming a
greater share; since 1971, the cost has been split 50/50. Through December
1974, SATEC prefinanced its expenses, anticipating reimbursement from Govern-
ment. FAC's five-year support ended in June 1974, as its time commitment was
limited.
3.13      Prospects and Recommendations.  SATEC's proposed two-year program
for the period July 1, 1975 to June 30, 1977, detailed in Annex 3B, can be
summarized as follows:
1975/76   1976/77   Total
New enterprises created                      20         45         65
Investments (CFAF million)                  580      1,440      2,020
New jobs                                    275        600        875
SATEC budget (CFAF million)                 151        148        299
The 65 new enterprises are expected to include 50 smaller enterprises with
investments averaging CFAF 13 million and average employment of 10 and 15
larger enterprises with investments averaging CFAF 80 million in 1975-76 and
CFAF 95 million in 1976-77 and average employment of 25.



- 12 -
3.14      As proposals for changes in BCD's and Government's procedures (see
Chapter V) take effect, SATEC's work should be greatly facilitated and its
cost-effectiveness substantially increased. Most importantly, SATEC's staff
must maintain its method and approach to retain the confidence of entrepre-
neurs. It has been agreed during negotiations that, whereas CAPME will equip
itself in order to offer management assistance to entrepreneurs after opera-
tions have started, SATEC will have two management assistants who will help
an entrepreneur as soon as he is selected and who will remain available for
continuing assistance, if he wishes so. The entrepreneur will remain free to
have recourse to the technical agency that would best meet his needs. It has
also been agreed that SATEC will adopt simplified economic rate of return
analysis to screen project proposals.
3.15      SATEC's budget projects an increase of 7 in its professional staff.
Four of these new staff would go to staff an office proposed to be estab-
lished in the north of Cameroon at Garoua, helping to start decentralization
of SATEC's activity and Cameroonian industry from the main centers at Douala
and Yaounde. Moreover, SATEC's staff would become increasingly Cameroonized,
the plan calling for hiring five local staff and two additional expatriates;
the emphasis would be on retaining access to specialists through the National
Service volunteers and SATEC's Paris headquarters where one engineer would be
assigned to work full-time on Cameroon and another engineer part-time. SATEC's
coordination by and with CAPME is described at para. 3.02 - 3.06.
AFCA
3.16      AFCA is a French private non-profit organization.  Its activity began
in Cameroon in 1962 under a FAC grant and was aimed principally at the training
of middle and upper level managers in Government and industry. Since 1965, it
has had a special unit, AFCA/PME, which works only with Cameroonian artisans
and owner-managers of small enterprises. Its support is of three types:
(i) training courses; (ii) consulting services; and (iii) cooperative organiza-
tion. The overall FAC grant was terminated in 1971 although FAC still finances
the cost of two expatriates; AFCA/PME has relied on fees generated by the main
AFCA activity of training managers from industry. Out of a total AFCA staff
of 11, three work for AFCA/PME; two German volunteers provide additional tech-
nical support to entrepreneurs. AFCA/PME is sufficiently distinct from the
other activities of AFCA in program, personnel and budgeting to be considered
a separate agency; all references to "AFCA" are solely to AFCA/PME.
3.17      Operations.  AFCA has trained almost 500 artisans and small entre-
preneurs in its general management course; the most recent group comprised
34 participants. The course meets two hours per week over two years and attri-
tion is low. The content focuses on practical aspects of general management
of small firms, such as personnel recruiting and administration, inventory
management, application for trade and bank credit, etc; basic literacy and
arithmetic skills are also honed. Participants have included plumbers, metal
workers, electricians, mechanics, tailors, masons, retailers and owner/managers
of small factories. These courses have been given in Douala since 1965, in
Yaounde for six years and in three other centers for two to three years; the



- 13 -
centers outside Douala were closed for lack of funds.  In addition to this
general course, AFCA has organized several specialty courses in bookkeeping,
plumbing and maaonry; the firet i8 a small continuing course and the latter
two were one-time efforts aided by ILO.
3.18      AFCA provides ad hoc consulting services to its former students if
help ls not available to the entrepreneur elsewhere at reasonable cost.  Con-
sequently, most of AFCA's consulting work involves a continuing relationship
with former students, undertaking limited, specific tasks for ongoing and for
expanding enterprises; this contrasts with SATEC's usual involvement in start-
up situations. Requests for assistance cover accounting, credit, design,
governmental relations, marketing, production and technology. In general,
the AFCA staff member ("animateur") responsible to respond to a request vill
simply counsel the entrepreneur and aid in his researches; on occasion, the
consultant vill intervene and assist in civil works supervision or negotiations
for credit, customs, subcontracts, etc. AFCA maintains active contact with
some 70 entrepreneurs, whose number grows with each year's graduates; about 20
substantial consulting assignments were undertaken in 1973/74.
3.19      In addition, AFCA has helped organize and support five exhibitions
of artisans and small industrialists which had from 20 to 60 exhibitors. Such
shows provide marketing publicity but also facilitate exchange of technical
and marketing information among entrepreneurs. AFCA has also helped to create
and manage two cooperatives, Cooperative de Credit Mutuel Artisanal (CCNA) and
Cooperative des Freres Camerounais (Coofrecam).  CCMA, set-up in 1969 to pro-
vide credit to artisans who could not obtain bank loans, has granted 32 loans
of CFAF 22 million, of which 40% is outstanding and 2% in arrears; AFCA helps
review loan applications and manage payments. Coofrecam is a group of 13
masons, metal workers and carpenters whose joint assets have grown from CFAF
1.6 million in 1966 to over CFAF 10.6 million in 1973; AFCA assists in book-
keeping, general management and contract bid submission. Other similar trade
associations are in the slow process of formation.
3.20      Evaluation.  AFCA's courses are pragmatic in content and relevant
to its students' needs. Its consulting services seem to provide useful short-
term assistance and meuh well with the courses. The only quantitative data
available relates to AFCA's observations of the firms in the Douala area which
it has assisted; of 247 fîrms, AFCA judges 19% have shown a marked improvement
with its help, 24% have improved somewhat, 25% have not changed and 35% have
ceased operatîons. Clearly, neither the full credit for the successes nor
blame for the failures is due to AFCA. However, the qualitative response to
its courses and consultancy by entrepreneurs as well as the results of the
cooperative organization efforts evidence AFCA's effectiveness.
3.21      Staff, Budget and Funding.  AFCA's current staff includes two
expatriate and one Cameroonian "animateur" who are generalists; two German
volunteer specialists provide technical support in woodworking and plumbing.
The current cost of the operation is about CFAF 20 million (US$90,000)
annually; 80% of this is the cost of the two expatriates funded by FAC and the
remainder is provided from fees for AFCA's courses for large industry.



- 14 -
3.22      Prospects and Recommendations.  AFCA proposes to expand its activi-
ties along the lines it has been pursuing. It would annually conduct six
general management courses of 10 to 15 participants each, try to form and help
manage new credit cooperatives and provide continuing support to its existing
clients. AFCA also proposes to reopen its center at Yaounde and to become
active in the north of the country, through frequent visits. This expansion
would require recruitment of one additional local professional staff and four
office personnel. The estimated total cost would be CFAF 33 million
(US$147,000) per year, detailed at Annex 3C.
3.23      AFCA has been most successful in its work with artisans, both
individually and cooperatively. This orientation would be maintained with im-
proved economic evaluation of projects to foster better allocation of scarce
staff and credit. A system to monitor the progress of enterprises receiving
assistance from AFCA would be implemented to provide a firmer basis for eval-
uating and managing AFCA's activity. AFCA has agreed to implement these re-
commendations.
IV. FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
The Financial Setting
4.01      The banking system in Cameroon consists of the Banque des Etats de
l'Afrique Centrale (BEAC), five commercial banks, and a number of specialized
financial institutions, including the Societe National d'Investissement (SNI)
and Banque Camerounaise de Developpement (BCD).
4.02      Central Bank.  BEAC is a common central bank for Chad, Congo, Gabon,
the Central African Republic and Cameroon. Credit policies are formulated in
the context of the monetary position of the five-country area as a whole.
Each country has national committees for implementing the policy decisions of
the Board.
4.03      BEAC regulates bank operations mainly by setting rediscount ceilings,
reviewing the position of individual borrowers and assessing individual proj-
ects presented by the banks for rediscount. Rediscount ceilings for short-
term credits are established for each country, for each bank and, within each
bank, for each individual borrower. A global ceiling for rediscount of medium-
term loans is determined for the five countries together, and not for each
country separately. This ceiling is fixed after taking into account both ex-
pected private investment demand and the foreign exchange holdings of BEAC.
Certain investments can be financed outside of the ceiling, either because of
their importance or because of their benefits for the whole monetary union.
The management of the ceilings is flexible enough to attain the desired objec-
tives at the national level while taking account of priorities at the levels
of economic sectors, individual enterprises and individual projects. An indi-
cation of the importance of BEAC's role is the fact that at mid-1974, credit
from BEAC financed 28% of all loans to the private sector by commercial and



- 15 -
development banks in Cameroon. Although BEAC's staff in Yaounde reviews each
medium-term loan, it relies mainly on the lending commercial or development
bank for financial appraisal, and its own economic evaluation is relatively
superficial.
4.04      BEAC's role in SME promotion has expanded recently but remains limited.
The bank has eased documentation requirements for short and medium-term redis-
counts of SM4E loans and, in February 1974, has ordered that for every commer-
cial bank, a minimum of 20% of all short-term credit go to Cameroonians or
firms under local control; the actual ratio for the major commercial banks was
already above the minimum, and any incremental credit allocated under this re-
gulation is likely to go to commercial firms. In May 1974, BEAC established
new rediscount policies, settinR rediscount rates of 4.25% for loans to
"privileged" borrowers and 5 3/4% for all others, for both short-term (up to
18 months) and medium-term (up to 10 years) loans. Banks may add a 3-6% margin
depending on the operation. Privileged borrowers include national governments,
agricultural cooperatives, industrial exporters, local small and medium-scale
entrepreneurs and builders of residential buildings. As funds available for
rediscounts of such privileged loans are strictly limited, most are expected
to go to builders whose projects serve as prime security and almost none to
SME projects. (Details are at Annex 2).
4.05      Commercial Banks.  Five commercial banks operate in Cameroon.  The
most important, Societe Camerounaise de Banque (SCB), is the only bank with a
Cameroonian majority shareholding. It is now 60% Government-owned, and enjoys
the advantage of receiving the deposits of public institutions, such as social
security, savings bank and the Treasury itself. The Government is in the
process of acquiring a minimum participation of one-third of the share capital
of the other four commercial banks.
4.06      Based on aggregate figures from three of the banks, the table below
gives an indication of the very limited role commercial banks play in SME
finance:
Three Representative Banks
Credits Outstanding (March 1974)
CFAF million US$ million % Total
Total short and medium-term credit
outstanding                                48,000       213.00        100.0
of which:
Medium-term                                  3,000        13.00         6.5
of which:
Cameroonian-controlled firms                   450        2.00          0.9
of which:
- housing                                        355         1.58         0.7
- other (including commerce and industry)         95        0.42          0.2



- 16 -
4.07      Because of the risks and costs involved in financing SME's, commer-
cial banks finance practically only long-standing customers. Due to slowness
in the judicial process, commercial banks do not fully rely on securities
offered but tend to prefer consortial loans with BCD as the lead bank in order
to benefit from BCD's extraordinary recovery privilege (see Annex 4R). The
banks lack trained staff to assist entrepreneurs in preparing loan applications
and with their internal accounting. The proposed technical assistance facili-
ties (Chapter III) and Guarantee Fund (para. 5.06) proposed under the project
should serve to involve commercial banks in possible future SME projects.
4.08      Societe Nationale d'Investissement (SNI).  The Societe Nationale
d'Investissement (SNI) was created in 1964 as a fully Government-owned company
in order to promote development in industry, agriculture and trade. Its ob-
jectives were to mobilize national savings, to make or to finance project
studies, to finance investments through equity particpations, loans or guaran-
tees, and to manage the direct investments of the State and of public institu-
tions. SNI has primarily been active in making equity investments and lends
only to companies in which it is a shareholder.
4.09      SNI's resources at June 30, 1973, consisted of share capital of CFAF
1.0 billion, reserves (CFAF 0.2 billion), solidarity and endowment funds (CFAF
0.5 billion), and Equipment Bonds, obligatory subscribed by banks, stabiliza-
tion funds, pension funds and other financial institutions, amounting to CFAF
4.6 billion, for total resources of CFAF 6.3 billion. SNI's equity portfolio
stood at CFAF 3.7 billion of which 43% was in food and agro-industries, 21%
in hotels, and the remainder diversified. Out-standing loans amounted to only
CFAF 0.4 billion. SNI's portfolio has strengthened over the last few years.
4.10      W4hile continuing to serve as the promoter of and channel for Govern-
ment investment in large-scale industry, SNI has been practically inactive in
the field of small-scale enterprises, having invested in only four companies
whose total equity is no more than CFAF 60 million. SNI should also assist
firms which require equity capital participation for expanding to medium and
large-scale operations.
Banque Camerounaise de Developpement (BCD)
4.11      BCD, established in 1960, is a multi-purpose development bank with a
majority Government shareholding (75%); CCCE holds 16%, the Central Bank 8%
and Bremen Landesbank a token 1%. It finances industry, agriculture, trade,
crafts, housing, and household and professional equipment. It may promote
trade, handcrafts and small and medium-size enterprises. BCD provides short,
medium and long-term loans, equity particpation, guarantees, and finances pub-
lic or private corporations or individuals. In practice, the bulk of loans
approved has been loans for up to 18 months. For the year ending June 30,
1974, loan and guarantee approvals totalled CFAF 7.5 billion (US $33.3 million);
at year end, loans and guarantees outstanding amounted to CFAF 9.9 billion
(US $44.0 million). Details are at Annex 4.



- 17 -
4.12      Relations with the Government.  The BCD has close ties with the
Government, which appoints nine out of the twelve Board members; BEAC names
one and CCCE the remaining two (Annex 4A). Among the Government representa-
tives are top ranking officials of the Ministries of Finance, Planning, and
Agriculture. Two directors represent mixed public-private enterprises, and
the Board can draw on the expertise of an accountant and an engineer who are
among its directors. The Board meets about three times a year and has dele-
gated authority to grant unlimited short-term credit, medium-term loans up to
CFAF 30 million and long-term loans up to CFAF 10 million to a Credit Commit-
tee, consisting of the Director General and Board members representing Govern-
ment, BEAC and CCCE. A Government Commissioner, appointed by the Minister of
Finance, has a veto power over Board decisions, but to date has never exercised
it. The Director General is appointed by Presidential Decree upon nomination
of the Board. The present Director General, Mr. Gottlieb Titti, a former civil
servant in the Department of Taxes of the Ministry of Finance, was appointed
in August 1971.
4.13      Role of CCCE.  In addition to its presence on BCD's Board, CCCE's
financial and technical assistance has been a key factor in the development of
the BCD' in recent years, CCCE has been the only provider of technical assist-
ance to BCD and by far its main provider of long-term finance (para. 4.19).
There are now two technical assistants from CCCE; although officially they are
only advisers, they occupy key functions. CCCE has made continuous efforts
to train local management for BCD. These efforts have been frustrated because
all BCD staff trained in CEFEB (the CCCE's training institution) except the
last one (Mr. Haman Djoda, now head of the Credit Department) have been
assigned to posts outside BCD shortly after their return from France, an indi-
cation of the scarcity of trained financial analysts throughout the public
sector. In recent years, the CCCE advisers were given no counterparts to train.
Although this is evidence of the Government's confidence in CCCE advisers, the
effect unfortunately is to leave BCD without experienced local management at
a time when CCCE is reducing its active involvement.
4.14      Organization and Staff.  BCD's organization chart is at Annex 4B.
The main operating departments are the Credit Department which is responsible
for appraisal and follow-up in all sectors except agriculture, the Agricultural
Credit Department which performs the same functions for that sector and the
Finance Department which is responsible for disbursements and accounting. BCD
has branches in Douala, Bafoussam, Garoua, Victoria and Yaounde, which grant
only small loans for housing, vehicles and durable consumer goods. The Douala
branch performs preliminary project analyses, but projects are finally
appraised by the staff of the head office in Yaounde. The total number of em-
ployees has been reduced drastically from about 320 in 1965 to 197 in September
1968 and 138 at October 1974. However, over half are support staff; there are
only 17 professionals. BCD continues to reduce the staff through attrition.
Under the proposed project training would be the primary task of the technical
assistance to BCD (para. 5.04); support from EDI for key individuals at BCD
is also expected.



- 18 -
4.15      Policies and Procedures.  BCD's basic policies and procedures are
detailed in its by-laws ("Reglement Interieur", revised for the last time in
January 1974), which can be altered only by a three-fourths majority of the
Board and the approval of the President of Cameroon. The by-laws, first, set
minimum and maximum balance sheet relationships between resources and uses to
which they may be put. For example, medium-term loans committed may not exceed
medium-term borrowings and rediscounts plus 10% of short-term deposits plus
any uncommitted long-term fundsz fixed assets and equity investments together
may not exceed 50% of BCD's equity plus endowments and borrowings specially
made for those purposes. The by-laws also set forth the composition and
approval limits of the Credit Committee (para. 4.12) and the powers of the
Director General.
4.16      Individual equity investments are generally limited, by the by-laws,
to 10% of the capital of each company to which BCD subscribes; this require-
ment may be (and has been) waived if Government indicates a particular project
is of special importance to the economy. There is, however, no limit on BCD's
exposure, the amounts outstanding in equity, loans and guarantees, to any one
company (see para. 4.25). The by-laws describe, in detail in certain cases,
the conditions to be applied to some types of loans. For example, housing and
real estate loans are limited according to various formula by the borrower's
salary, the absolute amount and the percentage of total investment cost to be
financed; moreover, minimal acceptable securities and maximum terms are also
set. However, flexibility is maintained as amount, duration, minimum equity
or other conditions are determined for each project individually for short,
medium and long-term credit to agriculture, industry and commerce; for these
loans there is no maximum set on loans to any single or related borrower. BCD
has agreed during negotiations to supplement the by-laws with a policy state-
ment conforming substantially to those under which most Bank-supported dfc's
operate (see para. 5.15).
4.17      Appraisals and Follow-up.  Most of BCD's credits to large industries
and agro-industry have been made in consortial form (see Annex 4R) where only
the lead bank ("chef de file") is in contact with the investor; BCD is rarely
the lead bank. According to BCD, the quality of commerical bank appraisals
for these loans is uneven. BCD's own appraisals of consortial or non-consortial
credits suffice for prudent banking, assessing the credit risk to BCD, but do
not serve to allocate funds to sound projects. Appraisals of short-term or
small loans are carried out by the professional staff of the Credit and Agricul-
tural Credit departments and by the senior CCCE advisor for medium-term, larger
loans. In the large majority of cases, an applicant's technical and financial
plans are merely accepted without question by the staff or discussion with the
applicant; financial projections tend to be cursory computations of figures
supplied by the applicant. The appraisals demonstrate the ability of a project
or applicant to cover loan service payments and give close attention to an
analysis of the security offered. However, in general they lack explicit
evaluation of an applicant's managerial capabilities, independent evaluation
of either market prospects or marketing arrangements, and economic evaluation
is limited to indicators such as jobs created and foreign exchange directly
saved by a project. Follow-up is limited to the review of the annual financial



- 19 -
statements from the larger borrowers. There are, at present, no follow-up
visits; according to BCD, this is due to lack of staff. Provision of technical
assistance to BCD and new produres in line with the policy statement under the
proposed project are intended to remedy these flaws (paras. 5.04 and 5.15).
4.18      Disbursement and Procurement.  The managing bank of consortial
credits ("banque gerante", see Annex 4R) provides the funds. Even when BCD is
the managing bank, it channels the funds through the commercial bank in which
the borrower is a client. The BCD does not check whether disbursement is prop-
erly controlled and relies on its recovery privilege to prevent customers from
misusing its loans. Explicit procurement policies are lacking. Procedures
to be adopted under the proposed policy statement are expected to fill these
gaps (para. 5.15).
4.19      Resources.  BCD's resource position was as follows, as of June 30,
1974:
CFAF million
Equity
Share capital (paid-in)                1,418
Grants from Government                    652
Reserves                                  455
2,525
Long-term debt
CCCE                                   2,024
KfW                                       319
Local institutions                        434
2,777
Medium-term debt
BEAC                                   3,347
Government                                250
Local and foreign institutions            200
Deposits                                   41
3,838



- 20 -
CFAF million
Short-term debt
BEAC                                      742
Deposits                                  557
1,299
Total resources                    10,439
Loans outstanding                         7,049
Equity investments                          751
Fixed assets (net)                          688
Total uses                          8,488
Resources available for disbursement                 1,951
Less:  undisbursed commitments                       2,378
Resource gap for commitments                          (427)
This gap results from, first, BCD granting small housing loans some CFAF 500
million in excess of its rediscount ceiling, an expected increase in the
ceiling having failed to materialize, and, second, the shift of a CFAF 330
million International Coffee Organization Diversification Fund deposit from
a sight deposit funding loans at BCD's risk to an Operation on Government
Account at Government's risk. Hence, the gap is not a serious adverse reflec-
tion of BCD's financial planning and should be c.overed, given normal disburse-
ment lags, by internal cash f1ow and undisbursed funds available from the
operations at the risk of Government. BCD manages CFAF 1,231 million in such
Government operations, financed primarily by bilateral loans; although it
neither carries any risk nor receives any fee for these, acting primarily as
paying agent, the undisbursed funds (CEAF 666 million at June 30, 1974) are
a useful source of free liquid resources and substantial interest on those in
short deposits. Rediscount facilities at the Central Bank accounted for 40%
of BCD's resources.  Loans from CCCE comprised some 20% at rates from 3.50% to
5.00% with a weighted average of 4.44%. BCD has incurred large losses as a re-
sult of carrying the full foreign exchange risk on a 1963 loan from KfW; as
the balance should be repaid by mid-1976, measures to protect BCD from such
losses in future were not a condition for the proposed credit. Avoidance
of future foreign exchange exposures is a provision of BCD's proposed policy
statement (para. 5.15).
4.20      Operations.  A detailed breakdown of BCD's operations by term, sector
and type is given in Annexes 4E and 4F for the fiscal years 1970 through 1974.
Interest rates and taxes paid by borrowers for BCD's lending, origin and cost
of resources and BCD's spread by type of operation are detailed in Annex 4D.
Loan and guarantee approvals for the year ending June 30, 1974 can be summa-
rized as follows: (CFAF billion):



- 21 -
Agriculture    Industry  Housing   Other        Total
Short-term              3.4             0.4        -        0.5        4.3
Medium-term              0.4             0.9       1.0      0.6        2.9
Long-term                -               0.1       -        0.2        0.3
3.8             1.4       1.0      1.3        7.5
4.21      Agricultural credits accounted for some 50% of all loan approvals;
most are short-term loans for marketing of agricultural products, usually made
in consortia with commercial banks. Short-term interest rates are normally 3%
to 4% above the rediscount rate of 4% or 5-1/2%.  Medium- and long-term inter-
est rates range from 7% to over 11%.
4.22      Industrial lending constituted about 20% on average of BCD's annual
total approvals, increasing irregularly from CFAF 0.6 billion in 1969/70 to
CFAF 1.3 billion in 1973/74 split roughly equally both between short and
medium/long-term as well as direct versus consortial loans; Annex 4G provides
a detailed breakdown. Over 90% of BCD's lending to the sector has been to
large-scale enterprises, including energy, transport and civil works contrac-
tors; these subsectors have taken a large share of these credits. Total loans
to small-scale industry (firms with assets less than CFAF 30 million) and arti-
sans over the five years ending June 1974 numbered 155 out of 360 industrial
loans. Term lending accounted for 40% by number and by amount of all small in-
dustrial loans. Interest rates on most loans range up to 11% for both short-
and medium-term at spreads for BCD of 3 to 5%. Some artisan and small industry
credits carry an add-on interest charge of 6% of the initial balance, equiva-
lent to an annual rate of about 11.50%.
4.23      Other lending includes housing loans, car and consumer durables loans
and a small amount of loans to commerce. The housing loans, mostly medium-
term, averaging about $3,000, are granted for both rental and owner-occupied
housing; these loans are generally well-secured by mortgages and debt servicing
is generally by direct paycheck deduction. Although consumer loans are in-
herently more risky than much of BCD's other operations, strict limits on loan
amounts in relation to the goods to be purchased and the borrower's income have
kept defaults low and made such lending feasible for BCD. Interest rates are
7% to 11.50% for housing loans and 11.50% for car and consumer durables loans.
4.24      Portfolio.  At June 30, 1974, BCD's total credits and guarantees out-
standing were CFAF 9.8 billion(US $43.7 million), broken down as follows (CFAF
million):
Short-term      Medium-term    Long-term Doubtful  Total
Agriculture             1,976              607            270        44    2,897
Industry                 681             1,259          1,286        49    3,275
Housing                    39            1,693            250        74    2,056
Other                    468               708            294       144    1,614
Total                  3,164             4,267          2,100       311    9,842



- 22 -
A more detailed analysis of the portfolio is at Annex 4H. In addition, BCD
had undisbursed commitments of CFAF 2.4 billion, 80% for medium-term loans.
4.25      Arrears and Exposures.  BCD had "unrecoverable" loans of CFAF 58
million (not included above) for which management has no hope of recovery and
which are fully covered by provisions; the "unrecoverable" category is purged
of old defaults at irregular intervals, 85% of these loans having been written-
off during 1974. Recovery of "unrecoverable" and "doubtful" loans averages
15%. Loans are classified as "doubtful" when payments of principal and/or
interest are more than 6 months late. Loans with payments less than 6 months
overdue continue to be classified as normal. Consortial loans, normally
carried out of the balance sheet, are put within the balance sheet if payments
fall in arrears and classified as appropriate. As detailed at Annex 4H,
arrears totalled CFAF 481 million, 5.1% of the portfolio, and loans affected
by arrears amounted to CFAF 1,086 million, 11.6% of total loans outstanding.
Provisions for losses of CFAF 280 million cover 62% of loans classed as doubt-
ful and an additional 0.9% of normal loans. BCD's largest single exposures
are to three mixed public-private companies, each of which has outstanding
loans (all of which are being serviced normally) or equity participations of
about 30% of BCD's share capital plus reserves. Despite these substantial ex-
posures, BCD's loan portfolio appears fundamentally sound.
4.26      Equity Investments.  BCD has subscribed to equity investments
totalling CFAF 751 million in 16 companies. Details are at Annex 4I. Over
50% has been invested in four commercial banks in Cameroon: these are the
only dividend-paying shares in the portfolio. Investments in companies operat-
ing profitably account for almost 60% of BCD's investments net of provisions;
approximately 10% is invested in firms under construction and a similar amount
in non-profit study and development companies. The remaining 25% of the total
is invested in companies operating unprofitably or in liquidation. Provisions
are probably inadequate by some CFAF 150 million; evaluation of the equities
would be subject to audit.
4.27      Profitability and Financial Condition.  BCD is not profit-oriented
and, as most similar institutions in francophone African countries, is expected
to make only a token profit. By tacit agreement between the Ministry of Fi-
nance, the Central Bank and BCD's management, the cost of resources, lending
rates and rediscount facilities are adjusted so that the balance on financial
operations covers administrative expenses plus a small profit. Profits, though
small, have increased markedly over the past five years, mainly because admini-
strative expenses increaded by only 13% (as their proportion to total assets
decreased from 5.0% to 3.7%) whereas both financial income and expenses in-
creased by around 40%. In fiscal year 1974, operating income after provisions
amounted to 2.5% of average total assets; net profit after tax amounted to 1.3%
of average total assets; net profit after tax amounted to 1.3% of average total
assets and 4.4% of average equity. As of June 30, 1974, the overall debt/
equity ratio was 2.1:1.  Balance sheets, income statements and financial ratios,
at Annexes 4J, 4K and 4Q, detail BCD's sound financial condition.



- 23 -
4.28      Audit.  BCD is not subject to an annual independent audit but is
subject to three forms of supervision: (i) two Commissaires aux Comptes who
verify the correctness of the accounts without an independent examination or
evaluation of the supporting documentation; (ii) the Government's Inspection
de l'Etat which is supposed to examine the books annually, seeking any irregu-
larities, but in practice does not do so; and, (iii) missions from CCCE in
principle annually but the last one in 1971, which examine the accounts in de-
tail, perform some independent verification and assess minimum ratios of
liquidity and profitability.  Under the proposed project, BCD would engage in-
dependent auditors (para. 5.12).
4.29      Prospects.  Annexes 4L to 4Q detail projected approvals, financial
statements and cash flow through fiscal year 1979 together with the assumptions
used in making the forecast; these assumptions include the present proposed
joint project as well as a similar possible second phase loan.
4.30      As detailed in Annex 4M, BCD's ongoing operations are expected to
grow steadily over the five-year forecast period. Housing loans are expected
to drop from the high rate in FY74 but then to resume slow growth. Conversely,
short-term agricultural lending is expected to recover from its decline in 1974
and continue to constitute slightly less than one-half of BCD's loan approvals.
The most important contribution to BCD's growth, however, are expected to be
large-scale industry and, under the proposed Bank/CCCE project, SME. Industrial
lending is already close to CFAF 1.5 billion and is expectedto grow at over
12% a year to some CFAF 2.5 billion, with term lending comprising some 60%
of the total. As detailed in chapter V, under the project, SME lending is
expected to triple during the quinquennium and term lending should grow rela-
tively even faster.
4.31      To finance this program, BCD will require net borrowings of some
CFAF 6.5 billion (Annex 4N). BEAC will supply the bulk of this finance; the
proposed IBRD/CCCE loans would cover about 20% of total requirements. The
forecasts also reveal BCD's need to borrow CFAF 1.3 billion, in addition to
the proposed joint project loans, over the five years from sources not yet
identified. These sources could be other external lenders or local insurance
companies and financial institutions, which lent CFAF 0.5 billion to BCD in
the past two years. The overall term debt/equity ratio, would be maintained
under 4:1 through fiscal year 1979; agreement on such a limiting ratio was
obtained at negotiation. Net income would remain at the level of about CFAF
100 million or about 6% of share capital, after yearly provisions forecast
at 1% of total portfolio which is equivalent to about 1.5% of yearly disburse-
ments. Thus, BCD should maintain its financial soundness while executing the
proposed project.



- 24 -
V. THE PROJECT
Project Description and Components
5.01      The proposed credit amounts to US $3 million to assist BCD in fi-
nancing the establishment and expansion of privately owned small- and medium-
scale enterprises. The investment component would be jointly financed with
CCCE and UNDP and the Government would finance the the technical assistance
component. The objectives of the project are stated in para. 1.02.
5.02      Subloans.  Based on a review of past and projected activity by BCD
and the technical assistance agencies, approximately 80 subprojects are ex-
pected during the two-year commitment period, ranging from total investment
costs of about CFAF 5 million to over CFAF 100 million. Based on the agencies'
expected staffing, four-fifths of these subprojects wouLd be assisted by CAPME,
SATEC or AFCA; the remainder would be new or expansion projects based on the
entrepreneur's experience and training or assistance from a technical partner.
Subloans would fall into two groups: (i) loans ta small enterprises where
BCD's loan to the subborrower did not exceed CFAF 30 million normally to firms
with total assets after the project less than CFAF 38 million (US $170,000);
and, (ii) loans to larger enterprises receiving more than CFAF 30 million from
BCD. As guidelines, the financing plans are expected to be approximately as
follows:



- 25 -
Long/medium-term loans       Equity
IDA      CCCE   BEAC /1 Entrepreneur  Total
Smaller subprojects               40%       40%      -          20%        100%
(Loans under CFAF 30 million)
Larger subprojects                20%        20%    30%         30%         100%
(Loans over CFAF 30 million)
/1   BCD medium-term loans rediscountable with BEAC.
Actual financing plans will be determined for each subproject by the entrepre-
neur, BCD, the technical assistance agency (if any) and IDA/CCCE. Consequently,
the subloan profile would be approximately as follows:
Smaller      Larger
subProlects  subprojects          Total
Number of subprojects expected             65    79       17    21          82  100
Total cost of subprojects
(CFAF million)                          870    35  1,600    65        2,470  100
(CFAF               (CFAF
million) (US$'000) million) (US$'000)
Maximum subproject cost                37        165         -
Maximum BCD loan                       30        134         -
of which:  IDA                       15         67        -          -
Average subproject cost                13         58         97        430
Average BCD loan                       10         44         68        300
of which:  IDA                        5         22        19          86
5.03      Onlending Terms.  The effective cost of project subloans to sub-
borrowers would be as follows:
% p.a.
Cost of funds from IDA and CCCE to BCD                            5.00
Spread for BCD                                                    2.75
Onlending interest rate                                           7.75
Taxes paid by borrowers                                           2.00
Guarantee or foreign exchange risk fee                            1.25
Cost of funds to subborrowers                                  11.00



- 26 -
On subloans covered by the guarantee scheme (para. 5.06), a guarantee fee
of 1.25% would raise the effective cost to 11% p.a.; Government would bear
the full foreign exchange risk. On other subloans, as likely subborrowers
have very little experience with and would likely be unwilling to borrow in
unspecified foreign currencies, Government would charge a foreign-exchange
risk fee of 1.25%, making the effective cost of funds 11% for these sub-
borrowers as well. Appropriate subloan maturities would be based on indivi-
dual subproject projected cash flows; total terms are expected to be from 7
to 15 years, including 2 to 3 years of grace. The proposed rate is slightly
higher than BCD's current term loan rates (Annex 4D) but lower than estimated
rates in the traditional capital market; commercial banks rates would likely
be about 13%, but they have lent only token amounts to small enterprises in
the past recent years. The 11% rate represents a compromise with the Govern-
ment who felt that an 11% rate was important as a sign of support for Cameroonian
entrepreneurs. It also represents a 2Z increase in BCD's present rates charged
on much of its industrial lending. With price inflation estimated to average
between 7 and 8% p.a. over the project life, real financial charges would be
positive in the range of 2 to 7% p.a. (Annex 4S). A spread of 2.75% to BCD
is comparable to the present range of spreads on its term industrial loan and,
since the guarantee fund (para. 5.06) would provide substantial cover for losses,
this spread is considered adequate. Given the 1.25% fees noted above, a tax
on credit equivalent ta 2%, and the BCD spread of 2.75%, the onlending rate
from Government to BCD will be 5.0%. As part of its overall study of SME
(para. 3.06), CAPME will undertake a thorough 8tudy of the source and costs of
credit to SME; the conclusions of this study will provide a firmer basis for
future interest rate policy in Cameroon as well as possible future Bank projects.
5.04      Appraisals and Subproject Review.  Subloans would be made on the
basis of BCD's appraisal. To strengthen its industrial appraisal capabilities,
two financial analysts/economists, an industrial engineer, and counterparts
would be recruited to form an industrial lending unit in BCD. As part of nor-
mal loan appraisal and supervision, the industrial unit would help formulate
financing plans and provide financial counseling. The three expert positions
would be financed by UNDP; job descriptions are at Annex 4T. CCCE would review
all subprojects. Loans of up to CFAF 30 million (i.e., expected to be IDA
funds of CFAF 15 million or US$67,000 equivalent), after approval by BCD's
Credit Committee, would not require pprior IDA approval, up to aggregate IDA
financing of US$1.5 million (CFAF 337 million). This exceptionally large
aggregate free limit, equivalent to one-half of the IDA credit, would main-
tain the simplicity of the lending procedures for smaller entrepreneurs,
serving to stimulate such loans, while the technical assistance personnel
help to maintain subloan quality. A representative sample of these subproj-
ects would be subject to ex post review by normal supervision missions.
5.05      Subprojects over the free limit would be submitted to IDA and/or
CCCE for review; the choice of lender would be at BCD's option. IDA and
CCCE would inform each other of subproject approval, disapproval or further
information required from BCD. If contrary decisions were taken on a sub-
project submitted to both, BCD would be free to resubmit it to the other
lender for consideration of a larger amount or to finance the subproject else-
where. Disagreements on subloans above the free limit are not expected to be



- 27 -
frequent enough to prevent substantially parallel disbursement. These proce-
dures would provide the rapid review needed in SME lending, help upgrade BCD's
effectiveness as a development bank and permit a workable joint operation with
CCCE.
5.06      Subloan Guarantees.  A guarantee fund for project subloans would help
cover the higher risks and lower secruity availability to SME lending. The
eventual role and necessity of a guarantee fund is an experimental aspect of
the project and experience gained is expected to be useful in future projects
in Cameroon and elsewhere; moreover, the procedures instituted may eventually
serve as a model for guarantees for commercial bank credits in future SME lend-
ing. As both BCD and Government sought the inclusion of such a fund as an ele-
ment of the project, procedures were developed, in cooperation with IDA, to
minimize any additional administrative burden on subborrowers or BCD. Fonds
d'Aide et de Garantie des Credits aux Petites et Moyennes Entreprises Camer-
ounaises (FOGAPE), established by Decree of April 2, 1975 under the auspices
of BCD, would be used as the guarantee fund; it has been funded with a CFAF
125 million budgetary allocation, has received CFAF 82 million representing
10% of the profits made by commercial banks in 1973-74, and will continue to
receive a certain percentage of these profits annually. BCD's loans to SME,
as defined by the above Decree (see definition in para. 2.12), would automatic-
ally be covered as a concomitant of approval by BCD; however, by advance notice
to BCD, FOGAPE could refuse to guarantee individual loans. As the representa-
tives of BCD and Government on FOGAPE's management committee also sit on BCD's
Credit Committee and Board, loan and guarantee decisions should generally be
parallel. The guarantee would normally cover 80% of any eventual loss. BCD
would still be obliged to pursue its normal bad debt recovery procedures. A
fee of 1.25% of the loan outstanding, equivalent to 1.56% of the guarantee
coverage, would be charged and paid to FOGAPE. The guarantee fund would break-
even with a final default rate of about 14% of loans covered. Any losses re-
sulting from higher defaults would be covered from budgetary appropriations.
The maximum ratio between guarantees outstanding and FOGAPE's resources is
set at 7:1 by the Decree creating FOGAPE.
5.07      Investment Incentives.  As the incentives available under the PME
regime (para. 2.13) are widely perceived by entrepreneurs to be valuable and
many defer beginning a project until the incentives are granted, the approval
procedures would be simplified and accelerated for all PME loans approved by
BCD (See Annex 1, para 19).
5.08      Technical Assistance to SME.  The project would help CAPME to serve
its designated role of coordinating SME technical assistance (para. 3.25).
The preparation of the project has already considerably served that purpose.
Contracts between CAPME and SATEC and CAPME and AFCA, defining their working
relationship, have been finalized during negotiations. It has been agreed
that close contacts will be maintained between these institutions through
frequent meetings and procedures for reporting to CAPME, allowing CAPME to
fulfill its mission, while SATEC and AFCA would remain responsible for selec-
ting their staff, subject to agreement by the Government, and the choice of
their working methods. The entrepreneur will remain free to have recourse



- 28 -
to the technical agency of his choice. In addition to its coordinating role,
CAPME will provide essential information - gathering and policy review services.
In particular, it will study in depth the SME sector in Cameroon. It will also
develop its capacity of providing various kinds of advice to enterprises set
up with the help of SATEC or AFCA after they have become operational. CAPME
expects to receive five expatriate experts and an appropriate number of coun-
terparts through a UNDP project.
5.09      Under the project, SATEC and AFCA would expand their present activi-
ties, SATEC focusing on the promotion of small-to-medium size projects and
AFCA on training and on advising former trainees on management and investments.
SATEC and AFCA agreed to apply economic criteria to project appraisal. SATEC's
professional staff in Cameroon would be expanded to 16 including the new
office in the north at Garoua. Similarly AFCA would become active in the
north and expand its staff in relation with the project to 4 professionals.
Proposed budgets for SATEC and AFCA are at Annexes 3B and 3C. CAPME's budget
would be defined in light of the conclusions of the ongoing study and UNDP
funding is expected to continue. With a view towards future projects, an
equally important activity of SATEC and AFCA would be training of its local
staff as the integration with or close coordination by CAPME proceeded; the
projected initial staffing would be as follows:
Professional Staff
Expatriate      Local     Total
BCD Industrial Lending
Staff                     3             3           6
AFCA                           2             2          4
SATEC                         9/1           7          16
Total         14           12          26
/1   Plus one engineer full-time and one engineer part-time at SATEC's head-
quarters in Paris.
The continuing assistance to SME after start-up, coupled with CAPME's activi-
ties, would permit close monitoring and subproject evaluation by IDA and CCCE.
5.10      On the basis of the above assumptions, the project would generate
some CFAF 2,500 million (US$11.2 million) in investments, supported by US$2
million in technical assistance (not including CAPMtE), to be financed as
follows:



- 29 -
BCD
From IDA  From CCCE  From BEAC  Entrepreneurs   UNDP        Crovt.       Total
Amt.   %              mt.    %    Amt.  _ _  Amt.  %  Amt.  %    Amt.   %
US$ million
Subproject
Investment
a) smaller sub-                                                                               V
projects         1.6   40   1.6  4O                  o.8    20                          3.9    100
b) larger sub--                                                                               1/
projects         1.4   20   1.4  20   2.2   30       2.2    30                          7.3    100
Sub-Total           3.0   27   3.0  27   2.2   19       3.0    27                         11.2    100
Technical
Assistance
a)  SATEC                                                            0.7  50   0.7 5°    1.4    100
b)  AFCA                                                              0.1  54   0.1 46    0.2    100
c)  BCD                                                              0.4 100               0.4    100
Sub-T otal                                                           1.2        0.8 40    2.0/  100
TOTAL          3.0   23   3.0  23   2.2   17       3.0    23    1.2   9   o.8  6   13.2-   100
CEAF million
Subproject
Investment
a) smaller sub-
projects         350        350                     170                                 870
b) larger sub-
projects        325         325        500          500                              1,650
Sub-Total           675        615        500           670                              2,520
Technical
Assistance
a)  SATEC                                                            150        150        300
b)  AFCA                                                               35        30         65
c)  BCD                                                                81                   81
Sub-Total                       _                                     266       180        446
TOTAL          675         675        500          670           266        180     2,966
1/ Figures dc not add-up horizontally because of rounding.
2/  Not including UNDP's continuing assistance to CAPME (of about US$0.8 million for the period)
which wil' also benefit the project.
DFCD
May 28, 1975



- 30 -
5.11      The proposed Credit of US$3.0 million would be used entirely for
investment subloans. Government's onlending to BCD would be at 5% and on a
fixed schedule of 15 years, including 3 of grace, subject to revision to
approximate aggregate subloan repayments to BCD. CCCE would lend directly to
BCD at an interest rate of 5% on terms paialleling Government's onlending.
The full foreign exchange risk would be taken by Government but loans not
covered by a guarantee would carry a foreîgn exchange risk fee of 1.25% on
outstanding amounts, equivalent to 2.50% on the part of the loan financed by
IDA, which is the only financing with an exchange risk. Although the foreign
exchange component of individual subprojects might range from 30% to 90%, the
overall average is expected to be about 55%. As mentioned earlier IDA financing
would cover about 40% of total cost of smaller projects and about 20% of total
cost of larger projects co-financed by CCCE; in the rare cases of larger proj-
ects where IDA funds would be the only source of foreign exchange, IDA would
cover 40% of total cost. To encourage smaller loans and maintain simplified
procedures, it would be possible in some cases to finance local currency costs
with IDA funds, but on balance IDA financing would almost never exceed the
foreign exchange component of a project and would represent only about 50% of
the estimated foreign exchange component of all projects. With UNDP financing
100% of the foreign exchange cost of the technical assistance, the three ex-
ternal agencies would finance 98% of the foreign exchange component and 54%
of total project cost.
5.12      Audit.  Under the project, the accounts of BCD would be subject to
annual independent audit by firms engaged on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Prior to effectiveness, BCD would submit a satisfactory
audit of its accounts as at June 30, 1975.
5.13      Procurement.  Equipment to be procured under the loan would be
small - mostly below US $25,000 - and varied and, therefore, unsuitable for
bulk procurement through international competitive bidding.  Essentia]ly all
of the capital goods would be imported but purchased "off-the-shelf" from
domestic distributors. Overseas suppliers for most of the imported machinery
and equipment are adequately represented in Cameroon; competition among them
is sufficient and their services reasonable. Most subloans are expected to
involve financing construction of industrial buildings. Overall, the
construction industry seems efficient and competitive. BCD would satisfy
itself that goods and services procured are competitive in quality and price
and meet the needs of its clients. Agreement has been reached with CCCE that
procurement for subprojects financed jointly would not be restricted to the
Franc zone, as is its normal practice.
5.14      Disbursement.  Disbursement of the Credit would be for 50% of BCD
approved smaller subloans (para. 5.02) and up to 100% of BCD approved larger
sub-loans, the expected share of the IDA credit in larger sub-loans being about
one-third of their aggregate amount. BCD would submit the normal documentation
for larger sub-projects. However for smaller sub-loans, IDA would allow, after
a starting period, that the supporting documentation be retained at BCD for
inspection by supervision missions and a surimary request for reimbursement
of funds advanced would be forwarded to IDA quarterly. These arrangements
would be covered by the proposed annual audits. Disbursement of the Credit
is expected to take 4 years; an estimated schedule is at Annex 5.



- 31 -
5.15      Policy Statement.  During negotiations, BCD has agreed to adopt a
Policy Statement which will inter alia:  (i) normally limit its total expo-
sure on a single enterprise to 20% of BCD's equity; (ii) limit its total
equity investments to BCD's equity and (iii) state that BCD will not assume
any exchange risk on its borrowings in foreign currencies. The agreed text
of Policy Statement is at Annex 4U. As the three parastatal borrowers ex-
ceeding the above limit of 20% appear sound (para. 4.25), immediate reduction
in these positions is unnecessary; BCD would not expand these exposures and
abide by the Policy Statement limits for future operations. In addition,
section 3.05 of the Project Agreement between IDA and BCD specifies that the
term debt of BCD, plus its commitments over one year related to consortial
loans and to guarantees, should not exceed four times BCD's equity.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      In a country where there seems to be a reservoir of potential small
entrepreneurs, the project is an effort to deal with three bottlenecks to their
development: technical assistance, finance and administrative procedures.
Given actual loan demand in the face of past difficulties, it is expected that
applications for technical assistance and financing will considerably increase
when it is known that a single decision in the Credit Committee of BCD can pro-
vide the applicant all the financing he needs, backed with Government guaran-
tees, and considerably facilitate and accelerate granting of incentives under
the PME regime.
6.02      The activity of the existing technical assistance agencies will be
increased, diversified sectorally, with greater focus on the smaller entrepre-
neurs, and diversified geographically, with opening of a new center of activity
in the north. CAPME has started coordinating technical assistance and agree-
ment between all technical assistance agencies for closer coordination was
reached during negotiations. Cost-effectiveness of technical assistance should
be improved through a greater volume of business, better appraisals and savings
of time previously spent for obtaining investment incentives.
6.03      The appraisal capacity of BCD will be strengthened, and selection
of projects improved, in particular through a more systematic use of economic
analysis both within BCD and the technical assistance agencies.
6.04      Through this first credit, the Bank will have an opportunity to:
(i) continue to be associated with current studies on future expansion of
technical assistance activities; (ii) agree to the choice of experts for BCD,
SATEC and AFCA; (iii) learn more on the SME sector and on the ways to help
it, particularly through close supervision of BCD and monitoring of the
technical assistance agencies; (iv) study and discuss with the Government
industrial policies; and (v) prepare future action based on an improved
technical assistance institutional set-up, possible inclusion of commercial
banks among the financing agencies, and revised industrial policies.



- 32 -
6.05      The project providing about 36% of BCD's financing requirements, its
financial impact is clear. While the project'-s direct benefits are difficult
to quantify, it would provide needed financing and technical assistance for
65 small Cameroonian entrepreneurs and perhaps 171 larger projects, helping to
develop entrepreneurship and contributing to production, employment and, hope-
fully, foreign exchange resources. Subprojects are expected to have a
financial rate of return in excess of 15% and the economic evaluation proce-
dures would be substantially improved. Considering the substantial urban
unemployment and the under-exploitation of many local raw materials, economic
rates of return of most subprojects are expected to be above their financial
return.  Most workers are expected to come from the large untrained labor
force; modernization of production facilities and techniques would help upgrade
skills of trained and untrained labor. The expected geographic distribution
of subprojects would make a small contribution to regional development and in-
dustrial decentralization. Finally, since much of the additional goods produc-
tion would be substituting for imports, the project's balance of payments
impact would largely consist of foreign exchange savings.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      An IDA credit of US$3 million is recommended, to be onlent by the
Government to BCD at an interest rate of 5%, on a fixed schedule of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, subject to revision in order to approximate ag-
gregate sub-loan repayments to BCD.
7.02      All smaller BCD sub-loans, defined as BCD loans up to CFAF 30 mil-
lion (US$133,000) would be financed jointly and equally by IDA and CCCE. It
is expected that the two institutions would also share in the financing of
most or all larger sub-loans, but BCD would remain free to seek such financing
from only one of them.  Thus IDA financing may amount for larger sub-projects
to up to 100% of BCD financing. Considering that IDA financing under the
project is expected to amount to only about 50% of the estimated foreign
exchange component of all sub-projects, IDA would be prepared to finance
local currency expenses on any particular project (see para. 5.11).
7.03      Smaller sub-loans, in which IDA participation would not exceed CFAF
15 million (US$67,000), would be considered as loans under a free limit. IDA
participation in larger sub-loans would be submitted to prior approval by IDA,
with an aggregate free limit of US$1.5 million.
7.04      The effectiveness of the credit would, in addition to the standard
provisions relating to IDA credits, be conditioned on:
(i) Effectiveness of CCCE joint loan;



- 33 -
(ii)  Agreement of UNDP for financing technical assistance to BCD,
SATEC and AFCA and signature of conventions between CAPME and
SATEC and between CAPME and AFCA, as agreed during negotiations;
(iii)  Recruitment by BCD of two financial analysts and one engineer,
satisfactory to the Association;
(iv)  Receipt by IDA of an independent audit of BCD accounts as of
June 30, 1975, satisfactory to the Association.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
CAMEROON
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
INVESTMENT INCENTIVES
A.   The Incentive System
1.        As a member of UDEAC 1/, Cameroon's tariff structure is fixed by
treaty among the four members. Tariffs and related taxes account for some 80%
of all tax revenues in Cameroon; hence, in addition to the industrial protec-
tion provided, duties are a vital budgetary resource. The system provides
four separate taxes whose imposition and rates vary by the origin of imported
goods, by specific type of goods and by their value. In combination, effec-
tive duties on industrial machinery vary from about 20% to 60% ad valorem, with
an average of about 40%. Duties on raw materials and finished goods range
from about 40% to 80% in a few cases.  The government grants exemptions from
the tariff structure (and certain other taxes as well) through its Investment
Code. Almost all medium- and large-scale industrial projects in Cameroon are
implemented only after approval of Investment Code privileges, or are abandoned
if the privileges are not granted. Entrepreneurs who seek Investment Code
privileges prepare an application, including financial and other projections,
and specifying the type of privileges that they desire. This application may
refer to the Cameroonian market alone, or to UDEAC as a whole.
2.        Cameroon's Investment Code has been harmonized with the Investment
Codes of the other UDEAC countries, and Cameroon has agreed not to make changes
*ithout consulting them. Incentives available under the Investment Code are
divided into a number of schedules: A, B, C, D, Forest Industries, and Small
and Medium Enterprises. In addition, many privileged enterprises and some
others are governed by special sales tax systems (partly incentives and
partly revenue-raising devices), called the "inland production tax" (Taxe In-
terieure a la Production - TIP).
3.        Schedule "A" provides exemption (up to a maximum of ten years) from
import duties on raw materials, packaging, supplies and machinery required for
industrial or agricultural production. Reduction or exemption from export
taxes also may be granted, and investors may be guaranteed against new import
or export tax rates for ten years.
1/ UDEAC: Union Douaniere et Economique de l'Afrique Centrale (Customs and
Economie Union of Central Africa) includes Cameroon, C.A.R., Congo and
Gabon.



ANNEX I
Page 2
4.        Schedule "B" may provide all the benefits of Schedule "A", plus ex-
emption from business income tax for five years (beginning with the first year
of actual production). The business income tax (impot sur les benefices des
societes) is at the rate of 33% of profits. All owners' or associates'
salaries exceeding 25% of the profit must be added to the profit for tax pur-
poses. A minimum profit tax is imposed at the arbitrary rate of 1.0% of sales
or CFAF 400,000 whichever is higher. Normal depreciation charges during the
five-year period of income tax exemption may be deducted from income during
the following three years. Schedule "B" also provides exemption from the
annual business license tax (patente), and mining and forestry taxes.
5.        Schedule "C" is reserved for enterprises of special economic impor-
tance for the implementation of the Five Year Plan, which engage in "priority"
productive activities (those which are listed in the Plan). Such industries
may negotiate a contract of establishment (convention d'etablissement) with
the government for up to 25 years. This contract may provide some or all of
the benefits of Schedule "B" (and thus of Schedule "A" as well).  In addition,
the government may guarantee legal, economic or financial continuity and free-
dom from foreign exchange restrictions, free entry and movement of personnel,
free choice of employees and suppliers, automatic renewal of forestry or mining
permits, access to hydraulic or electric power resources, etc. Tax privileges
may be passed on to shareholding companies.
6.        Schedule "D" is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to
national economic development, which make very large investments. These may
receive all the benefits of Schedule "C", plus a guarantee against any change
in tax rates for up to 25 years after production begins (up to five years may
be allowed for installing plant and equipment). If tax laws become more favor-
able, Schedule "D" industries may apply for the new benefits, or ask for a re-
turn to normal tax status.
7.        "Forest Industries" may be granted a 95% reduction of import taxes
on equipment, both for logging and for sawmills or other processing plants.
They may import either for replacement or expansion, provided they spend at
least CFAF 10 million. Some of the largest forest enterprises have obtained
approval under Schedule "A" through "C", but most forest products industries
have been considered ineligible for these more attractive privileges.
8.        "Small and medium enterprises" (PME) consist of all productive
enterprises (including artisans) which are not considered important enough to
qualify for the other Schedules. These may be granted a reduction of import
taxes on equipment to a flat 5% ad valorem, for up to five years. In addition,
small and medium enterprises may separately apply for the inland production
tax.
9.        The TIP or "inland production tax" law provides for exemption from
import duties on imported raw materials, as well as from several internal sales
taxes: e.g., the "transaction tax" of 8% on sales. These are valuable
privileges for import substitution industries that use imported raw materials,



ANNEX 1
Page 3
and - unlike Investment Code privileges - last indefinitely. Partial or com-
plete exemption from export taxes can also be granted under the inland produc-
tion tax procedure. In return for these privileges, a special tax is levied
on production at the tïme it leaves the factory for sale to internal markets;
sales for export or to other factories that have "inland production tax" pri-
vileges are exempted.
10.       The rate to be paid for the TIP is determined by the Ministry of
Finance. Ministry experts estimate how much tax revenue could be obtained from
an "inland production tax". Indirect effects, such as an încrease in corpora-
tion income or wage taxes usually are neglected, as is any possible "multiplier
effect" on national income (and thus on general tax revenues). The maximum
possible TIP is calculated as the difference between the duty-paid cost of
competing imports and the allowable price under price control regulations
(production costs at duty-free import prices, plus the allowable manufacturing
margin of perha!s 11 percent; see below). The proposed rate usually is reduced
below this maximum to allow some competitive price advantage to the local
producer and to allow the manufacturing margin on the tax itself. To give a
hypothetical example, a commodity whose duty-paid landed cost is 100 might be
analyzed as follows:
Duty paid landed cost of import                           100
Less allowance for lower price for
local manufacturer                                       3
Possible price for local manufacturer                      97
Cost of Production:
Labor                               )
Raw materials (duty-free imported) )
Depreciation (imports of machinery )                 65.00
duty-free)                        )
etc.
Manufacturing margin at 11 percent                          7.15
Sub-Total                                                  72.15
Balance available (97-72.15)              24.85
Possible tax (24.85/1.11)                                  22.39
Manufacturing margin on tax (at
11 percent)                                              2.46
Sales price                                                97.00
Accordingly, the inland or single tax rate might be set at CFAF 22.39 for every
CFAF 97 of sales, or 23.1 percent.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
il.       The estimated tax revenue on this basis is then compared with the
estimated loss of import taxes on the finished product. If the loss of tax
revenue is relatively moderate (e.g., 25-35 percent of former import tax col-
lections), possible favorable effects of the project are considered, including:
(a)  Whether the project uses local raw materials, or depends on imports;
(b)  Whether the projects create a large (absolute) number of jobs;
(c)  Whether the project will avoid an increase in prices to the consumer
(usually the Ministry does not favor a decrease in prices, and pre-
fers to increase the inland or single tax.
If such favorable advantages seem to be impressive, the Ministry approves the
project. However, if the estimated loss of tax revenue seems high, or the
advantages seem small, the Ministry may propose a reduction of privileges under
the investment code.
B.   Procedures
12.       Applications for investment code privileges are submitted to the
Ministry of Industrial Development in 33 copies. An additional 30 copies are
required for UDEAC applications. The Ministry of Industrial Development dis-
tributes copies to a number of Ministries. Applications are referred to a
working-level "Interministerial Committee for the Coordinated Study of Invest-
ment and Development Projects". f/ This Committee usually meets monthly, makes
1/   Members include:    Director of Commerce and Industry, Ministry of
Industrial and Commercial Development (Chairman)
Director of Planning, Ministry of Plan
Director of Budget, Ministry of Finance
Director of External Economic Relations, Ministry
of Industrial and Commercial Development
Director of Territorial Development, Ministry of Plan
Director of Rural Action and Development, Ministry
of Agriculture
Sub-Director of Private Investment, Ministry of
Finance
Head of Taxation Service, Ministry of Finance
Representative of responsible Ministry
President of SNI and General Manager of BCD, as
advisors



ANNEX 1
Page 5
a decision by a simple majority vote, and refers it to a cabinet-level Invest-
ment Commission. 1/ This Commission meets at least once every six months, and
approximately every four months if the volume of business makes that necessary.
If an unanimous decision cannot be reached, conflicts must be referred to the
Presidency for resolution.  Schedules "A" and "B" are promulgated by Presiden-
tial decree; Schedules "C" and "D" require legislation.
13.       After final approval, the project is returned to the Ministry of
Finance for the fixing of the inland or single tax rate. The Finance Ministry's
decision is submitted (along with an opinion from the Ministry of the Industrial
Development) to the Presidency for issuance of the necessary decree.
14.       The Ministry of the Plan considers mainly whether a project is in
accordance with the current Five Year Plan. Projects that have been listed in
the Plan, or fall under some of its general provisions, are legally entitled
to priority. The Ministry gives special attention to industries that are in-
cluded in a list of 30 large projects, which was included in the present Five
Year Plan. Many of these are held over from the previous Plan. The Ministry
of the Plan also tries to encourage industries that use local raw materials,
and sometimes discourages industries that do not.
15.       The Ministry of Industrial and Commercial Development is primarily
responsible for promotion of most industrial opportunities. It is, therefore,
normally the advocate of applicants for the investment code privileges. The
Ministry also tries to apply certain critical judgments, representing the gov-
ernment's general thinking on the selection of industrial projects. Insofar
as it can, the Ministry attempts to judge projects according to some or all of
the following criteria:
1/   Members include:    Minister of Industrial and Commercial Development
(Chairman)
Minister of Finance
Minister with responsibility for project
Two members of the National Assembly
Representative of the Economic and Social Council
President of SNI
General Manager of BCD
Two representatives of Chamber of Commerce,
Industry and Mines
One representative of Chamber of Agriculture Animal
Husbandry and Forestry
One representative of Cameroon Inter-Sector Association
for Study and Coordination of Economic Interest



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(a) "Local value added" 1/ and total value added;
(b) Tax revenues compared to tax losses of customs revenues;
(c) Net foreign exchange savings or possible earnings;
(d) Number of new jobs created (favoring absolutely large rather than
relatively labor-intensive projects) and investment per job;
(e) Decentralization of industries to less-developed provinces;
Of these, "value added" and "foreign exchange saved" are the most important.
16.       The Ministry of Finance tries to avoid or limit the loss of tax
revenue as a result of import substitution (or, in a few cases, processing be-
fore export of products subject to export taxes). When a dossier is first
received in the Ministry, it is referred to the Tax Division (Direction des
Impots), whose accountants and experts determine whether the estimates of
"local value added" are reasonable. If not, a reduction is proposed to the
other members of the Committee. After discussion, a revised figure is trans-
mitted to the Customs Service. The Customs Service compares the "local value
added" with the estimated loss of import revenues. The project is usually
given favorable consideration if the former exceeds the latter. If an investor
is seeking the TIP regime as well as the Investment Code incentives, officials
of the Ministry proceed to set a rate of the TIP.
C.   Evaluation
17.       The apparent economic effects of the Investment Code incentives seem
clear. By reducing tariffs to be paid, in particular on imported machinery,
from 20-60% to 5% or zero, they probably lead to higher capital intensities in
industrial projects but probably do not stimulate additional investment. The
TIP system perhaps increases effective protection of local manufacture by elim-
inating duties on imported raw materials and clearly does not encourage use of
local raw materials. As the margin allowed is calculated as a fixed percentage
of sales, the system favors industries requiring low investment and provides
no lncentive to obtain cost efficiencies which would likely result in an
increased tax rate. Nevertheless, the full economic impact of the incentive
1/   Defined as local raw materials, depreciation, cost of energy, wages of
Cameroonian workers, 50 percent of salaries of expatriates, taxes, travel
(except home leave of expatriates), overhead; excludes profit because
most enterprises are owned by expatriates.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
system remains to be assessed more completely before firm recommendations for
reform are possible. A basic economic mission, which visited Cameroon in early
1975, briefly reviewed the tariff and incentive systems, recommending a thorou,h
study leading to substantial reforms.
18.       The most serious problem with these incentives, however, is the
length of time required to obtain a decision. According to SATEC's experience
with entrepreneurs it has assisted, final action on an application for the PME
regime required, on average of more than 11 months. Moreover, in general,
SATEC's applications involve fewer, simpler and smaller problems than those
from larger and expatriate enterprises, and probably take less time than the
average as the application is probably more complete and accurate than most.
In consequence, new investments tend to be limited to investors who already
have established industries in the country, and can afford to pursue new appli-
cations in their spare time or who receive intensive technical assistance.
Such delays in obtaining the PME incentives certainly inhibit investment. The
delays in receiving approval of a TIP application are less serious since many
entrepreneurs find it confers dubious benefits; the need for close and continu-
ing official scrutiny of an enterprise's costs and the possibility that the
tax rate can be changed in future cool entrepreneur's enthusiasm for the TIP.
19.       It is the intention of the Government to expedite and simplify the
procedure for reviewing and approving applications for the PME regime. In
particular, in the case where an enterprise has received a loan from BCD, since
BCD shall have already approved the economic justification of the investment,
a decision on granting the PME regime will be reached generally within 15 days,
and in any event not later than one month, from the date of transmittal to the
Government of a favorable decision by BCD. Government has also strenghtened
its own economic evaluation capabilities.
DFCD
May 29, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
CAMEROON
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
BANQUE CENTRALE DES ETATS DE L'AFRIQUE CENTRALE (BEAC)
Rediscount Terms and SME Promotion
A.   Rediscount Terms
1.        As from April 25, 1974, BEAC increased the maximum length of short-
term credits admitted to rediscount to 18 months and for medium-term credits
to 10 years. At the same time it established discount rates as follows:
% per annum
"Privileged" discount rate          4.00
Ordinary discount rate              5.50
These rates apply to both short- and medium-term; for the latter, a commission
of 0.25% is added.
2.        Maximum allowable spreads were established as follows:
Z per annum
(including commissions)
Short-term
Rediscountable                                  3.00-4.00
Non-rediscountable                              4.00-6.00
Medium-term
"Privileged" operations
Rediscountable                                     2.75
Non-rediscountable                                 4.75
Ordinary operations
Rediscountable                                     3.25
Non-rediscountable                                 4.75



ANNEX 2
Page 2
The base rates to which these spreads may be added are the relevant rediscount
rate, if a loan is of a type which could be rediscounted or, if not, the maxi-
mum rate payable on 1 year term deposits of more than CFAF 200 million, set at
6.50%.
3.        "Privileged" operations include:
(a)  short-term pre-harvest crop financing;
(b) short-term credit to agricultural cooperatives and marketing boards;
(c)  credit to industrial firms who have been granted incentives under
the Investment Code;
(d)q credit to finance industrial exports;
(e) credit for housing;
(f) credit to Cameroonian small- and medium-scale enterprises.
B.   SME Promotion
4.        For the purposes of applying the privileged rate, SME is defined as
a firm whose management is Cameroonian with 51% of capital held by nationals
and meets one of the following three conditions: (i) it pays the minimum tax
("forfait"); (ii) its short-term rediscount ceiling at BEAC is not above CFAF
25 million; or, (iii) its equity is not above CFAF 50 million.
5.        BEAC has attempted to promote short-term credits to SME by various
measures. For loans to SME of less than CFAF 10 million, no accounts need be
presented by the borrower to the lending bank but only basic credit informa-
tion; for such loans between CFAF 10 and 25 million, summary accounts of
current assets and liabilities are all that is required. To facilitate sales
of equipment to SME, any suppliers credit from a large trading house for such
sales will simply be added to the selling firm's previous rediscount ceiling.
Finally, 20% of each bank's short-term rediscount ceiling is reserved for
"privileged" borrowers' almost all of this, however, goes to commercial firms
and residential builders.
6.        Provisions to encourage medium-term SME loans include special redis-
count facilities for credits of less than CFAF 5 million for housing construc-
tion and artisanal or agricultural equipment; however, again most of these
credits go to the first group. BEAC will also accept credits financing up to
80% of the total project cost of SME investments, compared to a normal limit
of 60% of cost. Substantial additional rediscount ceilings have also been
instituted for SME loans by development and commercial banks.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
7.        The above incentlves have not had a significant effect on lending
to SME as the lending banks retain the credit risk on rediscounted loans.
Thus, lacking a stream of well-appraised, viable projects, the banks continue
to rely fundamentally on the securities a borrover can offer. Consequently,
the bulk of the special facilities offered go for well-secured housing loans.
DFCD
October 10, 1974



Annex 3A
Page 1
SOCIETE D'AIDE TECI-NIQTJE ET DE COOPERATION
Status of Operations at October. 1974
Investment
Enterprise   (Location)       (CFAF million)  Employment           Comments
Operating
Edible ices              (Douala)           6              10       Seasonal profits
Refrigeration ice        (Douala)          45               30      Profitable
Preserves                (Oboke)            4               6       Sporadic activity
Commercial dry cleaning (Yaounde)          16              10       Very profitable; under
expansion
Construction materials  (Douala)           35              17       Marginal profits;
sponsor jailed 1/
Soap                     (Bessi)            4              12       TJnder expansion
Exercise books           (Yaounde)        180              45       At breakeven
Mattresses               (Douala)          23               21      Tinder expansion
Yoghurt                  (Douala)          20              12       Absorbing competitor
Maize handling           (Bafoussam)       29                5      Profitable
Laundry                  (Douala)           8               7       Reduced operations
Edible ices              (Yaou,nde)         5              15       Seasonal profits; under
expansion
Soap                     (Garoua)          22              15       'Jnder expansion
Soap                     (Bafoussam)       10              18       In start-np
Mirrors                   (Douala)           5               h      Profitable
Dry cell batteries       (Douala)         400             1h0       In start-up
Metal fabrication        (Douala)          34              16       In start-up
No longer operating
Fish production          (Douala)           8               12      Boat sank
Edible ices              (lkongsairiba)     3               6       Sponsor jailed 1/
Trailers                 (Douala)           4               8       Sporadic activity;
shareholders conflict
Edible ices              (Garoua)           8              12       Closed due to theft
Plastic housewares       (Penja)           10              20       Sponsor jailed 1/; possi-
bly to be restarted
Edible ices              (Bafoussami)       3               6       Sporadic activity
Edible ices              (Kunba)            3               6       Closed
Wine processing           (Bafoussam)        8               5      Sponsor jailed 1/; possi-
bly to be restarted
Edible ices              (Douala)           3               6       Closed
Refrigeration ice        (Nkongsam.ba)     37               32      Sponsor jailed 1/
Attache cases            (Yaounde)           h             16       Sponsor jailed 1/
Trailers                 (Yaounde)          2               4       Sporadic activity
93            133
l/  All jailings of entrepreneurs are for political or civil reasons unrelated to
these projects and unforeseeable by SATECO



Annex 3A
Page 2
Projected
Investment
Enterprise       (Location)    (CFAF million)   Employment            Coaments
Tlnder creation
Shoes               (Yaounde)          43              36        Under construction
Ballpoint pens      (Yaounde)          90              18        Negotiations underway
Toys                (Mbalmayo)         53              42         Inder construction
Tannery             (Penja)           NoAo            NoAo       Incentives approved
Toiler paper        (Douala)           18              20         Under construction
Industrial laundry (Yaounde)           hi              1h         Under construiction
Meat packing        (Bamenda)          37               8
Awaiting approvals or financing
Tire retreading    (Yaounde)          4h               21        Incentives refused
Coffee roasting    (Nkongsamba)        00              ..        Inactive
Phonograph records (Yaounde)           30              10        Inactive
Costume jewelry    (Yaounde)           00              ce        Inactive
Refrigeration ice  (Kumba)             47              32        Inactive
Ironwork            (Douala)           15              2h        Inactive
Metal containers   (Douala)            56              35         Inactive
Refrigeration ice  (Maroua)            40              32        Inactive
Biscuits            (Yaounde)          80              35        Incentives under
consideration
Eyeglasses          (Douala)                                     In formation
Coffee grinding    (Bafang)                            00        Preliminary plans
compl.ete
Industrial papers  (Douala)            00              Oo        Incentivesi under
consideration
Metalwork           (Douala)           15              17         Incentives under
consideration



Annex 3A
Page 3
Pro,iected
Investment
Enterprise  (Location)           (CFAF million)   Employxent        Comments
IJnder study
Grillwork                                                              Inactive
Rope              (Douala)                                             Inactive
Confectioris     (Yaounde)                                             Inactive
Towels            (Yaounde)                                            Inactive
Weaving           (Yaounde)                c.                          Inactive
Public bat,h      (Douala)                 e.             o.
Paper sacks       (Yaounde)                ..             00
Shoelaces         (Douala)                 00             ce
Pineapple juice  (Penja)                   *0            0c
Clinic            (Bafoussam)               e.            ce
Cartons           (Yaounde)                c.            0c
Palm oil processinu (Eseka)                *o             Oc
Preserves         (Penja)                  O.             e.
Charcoal          (Yaounde)                *.             ce
Broiler production (Douala)                ..             00
Watches           (Douala)                 *0             0e
DFCD
FebrinarT 5, 1975



SOCIETE D'AIDE TECHNIQUE ET DE COOPERATION                     ANNEX 3B
Proposed Program
(Fiscal years ending June 30)
I. Operations
176                            1977
Average     Average              Total       Total               Total       Total               Total       Total
Investment Employment  Number Investment Employment  Number Investment Employment  Number Investment EMploTment
CFAF                            CFAF                            CFAF                            CFAF
millions                        millions                        millions                        millions
Smaller
enterprises     12 - 14         10        15       180       150          35       490        350         50       670         500
Larger
enterprises      80 -175        15         5       400       125          10       950        250         15    1,350          375
20      580        275         45    1,440         600          65    2,020         875
II. Budget (CFAF millions)
Salaries:
Expatriate professional                           66                              7°                             136
Local professional                                17                              18                              35
Headquarters (Paris)                               8                               8                              16
Support Staff                                      5                               5                              10
96                             101                           -9-F7
Office                                              30                              24                              54
Transport                                           25                              23                              48
TOTAL                                 -UT                            ____                              299
III. Staffing
Yaoundé    Douala        Garoua              Paris Headguarters             Total
Mission chief                    1          -            -                                                 1
Engineers                        3         3             3                          1                     10
Financial/economic analysts    1           2             1                          -                      4
Management assistants            -         2             -                                                 2
Total professional                                       h                          1                     7
Support staff                    4         4             3                                               h
TOTAL                9         il             7                         1                     28
lay 15, 1975



ANNEX 3C
AFCA - PME
Proposed Annual Budget: July 1975-June 1977
(CFAF millions)
Centers at: Douala, Yaounde.
Salaries
2 expatriate professionals           16.1
2 local professionals                 8.6
6 support staff                       1.8
26.5
Office                                  5.0
Miscellaneous                           1.5
33.0
DFCD
May 15, 1975



Annex h
BAMQITE CAMEROTNAISE DE DEVELOPPERENT
Board of Directors as of June 1974
President:     Mr. Ousmnane Mey
Governor of the Province of North Cameroon
Mr. Edouard Koulla
Director General, Societe Camerounaise de Banque
Mro Robert Naah
Secretary-General, Ministry of Planning
MrN  Joseph Zambou Zoleko
Director, Ateliers Graphique du Cameroun
Mr. Martin Nkake Mdolo
Director, Societe pour le Deve]oppement du Cacao
Mr. Felix Moukoko Kingue
AcC ountant
Mr. Ahmadou Hayatou
Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly
Mr. Nicolas Eyidi
Director of Rural Development, Ministry of Livestock
Mr. Tamajong Ndumu
Engineer
Mr. Marcel Yondo
Director of Central .Bank for Cameroon
Mr0 Rene Mallorga
Director of CCCE, Yaounde
MrN Yves Esquillat
Deputy Director of CCCE, Yaounde
Governmer.t    Mr. Emmanuel Njamen
Commissioner:    Deputy Director of &idget, Miniestry of Finance
Director       MrN0 Gottlieb Titti
General:
DFCD
February 5, 1975



BANQUE CADMROUINAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Organizatior at June 197h
Board of 3irectors
Credit Cormnittee
General Manager
Assistant to Qer±. Mgr0                                Adviser to Gen. Mgro
Mr. Mbierna                                      Mr, Renard (CCCE)
(1)
Personiel      Administration         Collections                 Finance            Agricultural Credit         Credit
Mrs. Towa          Mr. Bateg          MrN  Nguiaiiba             0Mr. Njanga             Mr0 'TgaIeu            Mr. Haman Djoda
Adviser:
Mr0 Andre(CCCE)
(li                  (1)                       (1)                     (2)                   (1)
I              I_ _                 .I
Yaounde branch       Douala branch         Bafoussam branch           Garoua branch             Victoria branch
Yote: 'Nhmbers in parentheses indicate departaeental professional staff.
DFCD
February 5, 1975



Annex 4-
BANQTJE CAMEROTNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
PERS0NNEI L1
As of October, 1974
Officers  Professional  Staff  Support         Total
Head office                         4           3           17       38          62
Branches:
Yaouride                         -           3             6      13          22
Bafoussam                        -           1            4        7          12
Garoua                           -           1             4       6           1i
DoIaiIa                          1           -             9      12          22
Victoria                         -           1             2       6           9
Total branches                 1 i                     -          
Total                              5            9           h2      82         138
Evclution:  1971-1973
AS of:                  June 30, 1971  June 30,_1272   June 30, 1973   October 1, 1974
~ead office                   81              69                66                 62
ar;nches:
Yaounde                      28              22                23                 22
Bafoussaxn                   13              11                il                 12
earoe:a                      il              il                il                 il
Douala                       33              28                24                 22
Vict.oria                    10                8               10                  9
Total branches             9               80                79                7
PotaT                         176             149               1h5               138
1/ Excludes seconcded advisersO
DFCD
February 5, 1975



BAMQUE CAMEROt'AISE DE DEVELOPPEMT
Interest Rates
(percent per annum)
Assumed
cost to        Spread to         Lending         Taxes and       Cost to
Source      BCD               BCD             rate            insurance 1/   borrower
Short-term (less than 18 mos.)
Agriculture                   BEAC       )
Industry (large-scale)        BEAC       ) 4.00-6.00    3.00-6.00         7.00-12.00       1.75-2.80    8.75-14.80
Industry (small-scale) BEAC, own funds )           2/                                              3/
Consumers               Own funds, other    6.00            5.50             11.50            3.75           15.25
Medium-term (18 mos. to 10 yrs.)
Agriculture              BEAC, CCCE)
Industry (large-scale)  BEAC, CCCE)
Industry (small-scale)  BEAC, KfW )        4.25-6.50    2.75-4.75         7.00-11.25       1.75-2.75    8.75-14.00
Commerce                        BEAC)
Housing                  BEAC, CCCE)              2/
Consumers                Own funds           6.50           5.50             12.00            3.80           15.80
Long-term (over 10 yrs.)
Agriculture              CCCE, other        3.00-5.00    1.25-4.75        4.25-9.75         1.50-2.05    5.75-11.80
Industry (large-scale)  CCCE, other        3.50-5.00    1.50-4.75         6.00-9.75         1.75-2.05    7.75-11.80
Guarantees                      --                -        1.00-2.00        1.00-2.00             --        1.00-2.00
Note: Based on borrowings to date.
1/     Taxes and insurance include:
- tax on credit:              1.00%
- credit life insurance:      0.50% (depending on borrower)                                                        n
- sales tax: 9.67% on revenues                                                                                     C
2/     National cost based on rate paid on large fixed-term deposits of similar term.                                      x
3/     Includes an additional 1% contribution to BCD's Solidarity Fhnds required for these classes of loans.               U
DFCD
October 10, 1974



BAr, Q!T CAME; ÛAIJS D0 D_J1'L0FPP2s,T ?M
Cre(lit, andq 'JUairantee Approvals bve
(CFAF million)
Fiscal 7ear ending ilne 30_
1970                 1971                  1972                   1573                  1          -
A _moun_                o             No.  Amount %         No,  Âmourf_ %                _`o._n
Io.  Short-term (Less than 18 mos.)
A-riculture         3,121    62    16   2,80lh    49    18   3,618    54    18   4,198    5L    21   3,359    45    20
Inchistry              252     5    18       153     3    12    4hh9       7    18       1461     6    31      359      5    2
T%iising                 -      -     1        6      -    49        2     -    22         1      -     7               -      2
Consumer               173     h 1,922      276      5 2,825       256     h 2,392       359      5 3,239      5-2      7    5, P5
Commerce               154     3      5       22     -      3        2     -      3       32      _     2       37      _
Public sector            -     -      -        -     -      -        -     -      -        -             -      -       -
3,700     4          3,261       7 2,907        73 27    2,4     5,051 3       3,30       27 ,06
II. Medimn-term(18 mos. to 10 yrs.)
Agriculture             23     1      6      97      2    12      279      4    14       272     3    39       398      5    58
ndwrtlry               316     6    39       557    10    30       422     6    17   1,024    13    19         672      9    25
OUFtng                416     8   514      238      4   260      423      7   h91       543     7   737   1,039    14 1,583
%nouîns r              185     h   383      246      4   490      135      2   236      143         ?   7      129      2   2'l
Coninerce               49     1      4     108      2    13      109      2    18       5h`3 1    l)         i94      3    24
Public sector           20      -     1       *             -   .           '            I        2     3               3 !     1
1,009    20    9     1 12h     22   729 T1U          r2   777   2,196    27  1,071   2,707    36 1,902
III. Long-term (Over 10 yrs.)
Agriculture              -     -      _        _    . _            210     4      1      300      4     1        -      -      _
Industry                1-      -     1      iLOO    7      3       50     -      1        -      -     -       76      1.    1
Housing                  7     -      2       21     1      6       65     1    16        71     1    16         -      -      _
Public sector          172     4      2        -     -      -        -     -      -        -      -     -      225      3      1
iT     Ti    T        h1    T        9      32     T      I                                     -7      2 17  30i    T  2
IV. Guarantees
Indwutry                59     1    12       755    13    21       528     8    47       135      2    13      233      3    30
Commerce                 7     1      2        -           -         -     -      -        -      -     -       17      -      2
9 Or   2             5      13    21       7      -      h7       37    T2      3               3    32
TOTAL           5,001   100 2,928   5,683   100 3,732   6,623   100 3. 28'    753   *nn 1j)i   7 E<,    00 9r hi l
DFbCD         
7ebruary 5, 1975



Annex 4F
BANQTUE CAMEROTNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Credit and Guarantee Approvals by Sector and Type
(CFAF million)
Fiscal Years ending June 30
1970        -1971           1972           1 973       1974
Amount _     Amount    %  Amount           Amount    %  Amount   %
Agriculture
Direct
Short-term                    210           557           768            745           596
Medium-term                    22            47           236            232           157
Long-term                       -             -           210            300             -
232    5       O    li   1, T     18    1,277   16      î%   10
Consortial and guarantees
Short-term                 2,911         2,247         2,849           3,453        2,764
Medium-term                     -            50            43             40           240
Long-term                       -             -             -              -             -
Total5    2,29a   40   2WJh92   44          ,          300 40
Total agriculture            3,143   6    2,901         4,106           h 4,770  b           r 3
Industry
Direct
Short-term                    252           153           440            322           359
Medium-term                   239           160            72            505           271
Long-term                      17           400            5               -            76
10           713   13      562    9        2-7  11      7o6   9
Consortial and guarantees
Short-term                     59           755           528            218           233
Medium-term                    77           397           358           -57            40o
Long-term                       -             -             -              -
15§  36 1 152   20  ~~5g   13              792   10      634   8
Total indu8try                 iT 13   1T 33 22                                      1,30  17
Other sectors
Direct
Short-term                    327           303           261            392           566
Yiedium-term                  671           476           623            878         1,565
Long-term                     179            21          _65              71           225
1,177   23      80   14       9h9   14    1,3      16  32
Consortial and guarantees
Short-tern                     3?             -             -              -            17
Mediina-term                    -           117           120             22            74
Long-term                       -             -             -              -
37    1     117    2      120    2         22    -
Total other sectors          112h            917        1069                3   i        h733
TOTAL                         5,001  100   5,683  100   6,623  100    7,752  100   7,544 100
All sectors
Direct
Short-termn                  789   16   1,013   18   1,469   22    1,459   19   1,521  21
Medium-term                   932   18      683   12      931   14    1,615   21   1,993  26
Long-term                    196    4      421    7      325    5       371    4       301   4
1,917   3    2,117   37   2,725   -T  -3I,I7   7    3,815  51
Consortial and guarantees
Short-term                 3,007   60   3,002   53   3,377   51    3,671   48   3,014  40
Medium-term                    77    2      564   10      521    8       636    8      715   9
Long-tera n i                                                 -             -
3,o84   r2   3,556   r    3,898   7       4,307         T 3,72
TOTAL                        5,001  100   5,683  100   6,623  100    7,752  100   7,544 100
-       _    ==   -._
DFCD
February 5, 1975



~AN  T CME,0j!~ASEDE DEVELOPPEMENT
Indu,Vtrial/Loa. AD-rova1 s
(OCFAF millions)
Fiscal Years endin2 June 30
197 01971 o                              1972   o            1                     1974
~~~~~~Amt.                  'O N     Amt. .   9iM  FAt0 ,    o .  A1t ,    {   m      f 
Short-term
large-scale    302   h7   25        901   48   29        933   64   53        514   32   18         322   2h      9
Small-scale
&? artisan 2/         1             _2     2   1                     8        27    2   21         276   21    4
311        30        9 5 L               96   ô7 61   -3T3I   39                     97   5 
Mediun/Long-term
Laree-scale    282   h       8      85?  146   14        460   32   15    1, 059   65   19          701   51    15
Sinal -scale
art4 2+1En  /1   5  8    9        83    4   -          2 2   i    ,         20                    47    4      9
artisan  333   7 0 722                              33 22       1079                    7 7    7     T
Total industry  644  100   70    1,865  100   66    il449  100   83    1,620  100   63            1,346  100    78
-    -                         =      -         -          : _       2                         --   
L  Includes non-agriciiltural firms engaged in service and construction activities.
2/ According to the mission's classification0  Includes all loans to artisans and loans to enterprises with
total assets of less than CFAF 30 million.
DFCD
February 5, 1975



Annex LH
page 1
BANQUE CAMEROTTNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Loan Portfolio at June 30. 1974
(CFAF million)
Short-term  Medium-term  Long-term  Doubtful  IJnrecoverable  Total  % of Total
Agriculture       647          545          270         44              3      1,e09       22
Industry          379          523        1,286         49             28      2,265       32
Housing             -        1,654          250         74             2h      2,002       28
Consumer          351          133            ..        22              3        509        7
Commerce            4          184                     122              -        310        4
Public sector       -          160          2914         -              -        454        7
Total           1,381        3,199        2,100        311             58      7,049
(% of total)      (20)         (45)         (30)        (4)           (1)       (100)    100
_=        __        =
Consortial Credits and Guarantees at June 30. 1974
(CFAF million)
Guarantees      Short-term      Medinim-term       Total
Agriculture                13           1,316               62           1,391
Industry                  302               _              736           1,038
Housing                    39                               39              ?8
Commerce                  112               _             231              343
Public sector               1               -                -               1
Total                 h67            1,316           1,068           2,851
1/  Abouit 85% of these loans are to one large governnent-sponsored company, SONAC,
which is in lqui-aUion.
DFCO
February 5, 1975



Annex 4H
BANQUE CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT                                                                                          Page 2
Analysis of Arrears of Principal and Interest as of June 30. 1974
(CFAF million)
Loans Outstanding 1/         Arrears from 2 to 6 months(Normal) Arrears over 6 months(Doubtful)                          Total                    As b of total outstanding         Total provisions
Direct  Consortial  Total    Exposure  Arrears  Provision 2/    Exposure   Arrears  Provisions    Exposure  Arrears  Provisions   Total arrears  Total exposure   Total exposure
SHORT -TERM
Agriculture         651       1,316   1,963           23        20           3               4            4          1              27        24           4
Industry            381            -     379           9         5          1                2            2          2              il         7           3
Housing               -            -        -          -         -           -                -           -          -               -         -           -
Consumer            360            -     351          60        16           7                9           8          8              69        24          15
Commerce            108         _           4          4         4                         104 3/       104 3       50             108       108          50
Sub-total      1,500        1,316   2,816           96        45         il              119         118          61             215       163         72              5.8               7.6                33.5
MEDIUM-TERM
Agriculture         585           62     647         138        39          15              40           39         31             179        78          46
Industry            568         736   1,304          154        92         17               ':5          33         29             200       130         46
Housing           1,715           39   1,754         192        18          21              61           38         46             254        56          67
Consumer            146            -     146          26         5          3               13           il          9              39        16          12
Commerce            202         231      433          66         9           8              18            6          7              84        15          15
Sub-total      3,376        1,068   4,444          576       163         64              177         132         122             756       295        186              6.6             17.0                 24.6
LONG -TERM
Agriculture         270            -      270          -         -           -                -           -          -               -         -           -
Industry          1,288            -   1,288          57         8          6                2            2          l              59        10           7
Housing             263            -      263         43         1           5               13          12         10              56        13          15
Public sector       294            -     294           -         -           -               _            _          _
Sub-total    2,115             -   2,115          100         9         il               15          14          il            115         23         22              1.1              5.4                 19.1
TOTAL      6,991       2,384   9,375          772       217          86             311          264        194           1,086       481         280              5.1             11.6                 25.8
%of total                                             =
outstanding       74.6        25.4   100.0          8.2       2.3        0.9              3.4          2.8        2.1            11.6       5.1        3.0
1/ All loans classed as "unrecoverable" have been purged from this analysis as they are fully covered by provisions of CFAF 58 million.
2/ Provisions rationally allocated by term and sector.
3/ Of these amounts, CFAF 100 million is due from SONAC (see footnote, Annex 4H, page 1).
DFCD
February 5, 1975



BANQUE CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Equity Portfolio at June 30, 1974
(CFAF million)
Value     % of total
BCD Subscription            Pro-       net of        equity      Par    Share capital  BrTn %            Dividends
Co. Status-                                          Disbursed  Undisbursed  Total  visions  provisions   portfolio   value    of company    capital   Amount  % of value net
Banks and insurance                                                                                                                              of provisions
A         Ste. Camerounaise de Banque                 175          -         175      -         175          25         250        1,000         25         9.4          5.4
A         Banque Internationale pour le
Commerce et l'Industrie au Cameroun        75          -           75     -           75         il         194         1,215         16        14.8         19.7
A         Ste. Generale de Banque Camerounaise         30         -           30      -          30           4          81           810        10         4.0         13.3
A         Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique
Occidentale                               100          -         100      -         100          14         100         1,000         10           -            -
C         Ste. Camerounaise d'Assurance                15         5           20      -          20           3          20          400          5           -            -
395         5          400     -          400          57        645                                 28.2          7.1
Hotels and real estate
C          Ste. Immobiliere du Cameroun                50         -           50      -          50           7          50           500        10           -            -
B          Ste. des Grands Hotels du Cameroun          30         -           30      -          30           4          30           963         3           -            -
B          Ste. Hoteliere Nord Cam:roun                12         -           12      -          12           2          12           135         9           -            -
E          Ste. des Residences Mont-Febe                6          -           6      6           -           -           6            32        19           -             -
98         -           98     6           92          13          98
Agro-industry & rural development
A          Ste. Sucriere du Cameroun                   2           -          25      -          25           4          25         1,800          1           -            _
D          Ste. d'Expansion et Modernisation
de la Riziculture de Yaguoa               20          -           20     -           20          3          20           465          3           -            -
D          Stes. Regionales de Developpement des
Zones d'Actions prioritaires Integrees
de l'Est                                   5          -            5     -            5          1           5           191          3           -            -
D          Ste. de Developpement du Nkam                2          -           2      -           2           -           2            92          2           -            _
52         -           52      -          52           8          52
Miscellaneous
E          Ste. Nationale Camerounaise pour
le Commerce, l'Industrie et le
Developpement (SONAC)                    138          -          138     7          131          19        138           400         35           -            -
E          Les Argiles Industrielles du Cameroun    43             -          43    43            -           -          43           168         26           -            -
D          Ste. des Etudes pour le Developpement
de l'Afrique                              10         10           20     -           20           3         20           200         10           -            -
191        10          201    50          151          22         201
TOTAL                                 756         15         751    56           695        100         996                                 28.2          4.1
1/ Status:
A:  Operating profitably.
B:  Operating unprofitably or breaking-even.                                                                                                                              >
C:  In construction, or start-up.
D   Non-profit study or development company.
E: In reorganization or liquidation.
DFCD
February 5, 1975



Annex 4J
Page 1
BANQIE CAMEROUIAISE DE DEVEWPPEENT
Balance Sheets
(in million of CFAF)
At June 30
1970    1971    1972    1973    1
ASSETS
Current
Cash and bank deposits  /                    14    (157)    284       663      198
Accounts receivable                          134     145      182     166      132
Sundry debtors                               49      104     101      il       114
197        Z     77-    9 
Loan portfolio
Cash advances and short-term loans           784     692      930     834   1,381
Iledium-term loans                        2,136   1,911   1,754   2,281   3,199
Long-term loans                           1,406  1L,3    1,315   1 666   2 100
Sub-total                              4,326   3,933   3,999    781 Zl
Doubtful loans                              625      401      348     295      311
Unrecoverable loans                          210     265      357     429       58
Less:  provisions for bad debts             (627)   (551)   (611)   (624)        8)
Net loans                              4,534  00        4,093   4,881   5,791
Equity participations (at cost net of        271      443      500     594      695
provisions)
Fixed assets (net)                        _685       784      79      703      688
TOTAL                                  5,687   5,367   5,909   7,120   3,618
-         _ ,_
LIABILITIES
Current
Sundry creditors                             34       24       32      52       39
Deposits                                    319      639     686      717      301
Short-term borrowings (BEAC)            ) 1          128     257      242      680
Culrrent maturities at term debt        )  '   (    243      250      321      415
Accrued charges                             2        216      233     4°°      5
1,949h   l       -1       ,7h0   1,977
Medium- and long-term
CCCE                                    )       (    951     833   1,145   1,368
BEAC                                    }       (    969     757   1,175   1,729
K  2,635(    397     341     289      228
Local institutions                      )       (      -     200      280      535
Government                              )       (      -      250     200      150
Deposits                                     66       60      48       44       41
Foreign institutions                           -     117        7      79       6
2,701   2,U9T      526   3,212
General reserves                             116      207     157      183      238
Eguity
Share capital (paid-in)                   1,000   1,397   1,397   1,418   1,418
Gran s                                       61      132     382      457     652
Accunulated profits (losses)                 8      (113)    (11)    110       217
7r6  1,h16 21,77    1,95          2
TOTAL                              5,687   5,367   5,909   7,120   8,618
1/ Trndisbursed operations on Government accoimt (Annex 4J, page 2) are also usable
as cash.
DFCD
February 5, 1975



Annex 4J
Page 2
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
(CFAF million)
At June 30
1:70     1971     1972      1973     1974
Consortial credits
Short-term                      1,862    1,263    1,553    1,750    1,316
Medium-term                       2         227      533      672    1 068
l7e90    2     ,086    25422
Guarantees                           96       799      771      573       467
Total                        2,161    2,289    2,857    2,995    2,851
OPERATIONS ON GOVERNM4ENT ACCOUNT
Diîsbursed                        1,250    1,157    1,116       889       565
Ttndinsbursed                        79      838       993      244       666
Total                        1,329    1,995    2,109    1,133    1,231
IFCD
Februtary 5, 1975



Annex )4K
BANQUE CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Profit and Loss Statements
(in million of OFAF)
Year ending JuneL3
1970    1971      1972     1973      1974
Income
Interest and Coamissions                 329     346       335       387      475
Other financial income                    49     115       164      120       117
Net rentals                               78      75        93       95        95
Miscellaneous income                      60       56       63        65       60
Total income                           516     592       655      667       747
Expenses
Administrative Expenses                  215     219       254       241      244
Depreciation                              63      58        56       54        50
Financial expenses                       139     145       155      159       185
Provisions  P/                            20     101        38       32        72
Total expenses                         437     523       503      456       551
Net Operating Income                        79      69       152      181       196
Extraordinary income (loss)               (l08)2"    8        (9)       (4)     (24)I/
Tax                                          4       5        41       56        69
Net Profit                                 (33)      72      102      121       103
2  Including foreign exchange loss of CFAF 109 million in 1970 and CFAF 37 million
in 1974.on KfW loan.
O/ 0f the provisions, the following
amounts were allocated to general
reserve:                                 5       5         5        5        30
Consequently, net incame may be
restated as                            (28)     77       107      126       133
DFCD
February 5, 1975



ANNEX 4L
Page 1
BANQUE CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
I.   Forecast Operations
A.   Approvals
(i) loan approvals grow as detailed in Annex 4M based on de-
tailed projections by sector, term and type by BCD staff;
(ii)  cancellations estimated at 10% of long- and medium-term
approvals;
(iii)  new equity investments projected at CFAF 25 million per
year.
B.   Commitments
(i)  short-term loans committed in year of approval;
(ii)  medium- and long-term loans 75% committed in year of
approval, 25% in following year.
C.   Disbursements
(i)  short-term loans 90% disbursed in year of commitment, 10%
in following year;
(ii)  medium-term loans 60% disbursed in year of commitment, 40%
in following year;
(iii) long-term loans 25% disbursed in year of commitment, 75%
in following year;
(iv)  equity investments disbursed in year of approval.
D.   Loan Maturities
(i) loans outstanding at June 30, 1974 repaid as follows:
short-term loans in 1974/75; medium-term loans over 3
years; long-term loans over 5 years;
(ii)  guarantees outstanding approximately 15 months;



ANNEX 4L
Page 2
(iii) short-term loans repaid 60% in year disbursed, 40% in
following year;
(iv) medium-term loans 1 year of grace and 4 of repayment;
(v) long-term loans 2 years of grace and 6 of repayment.
II. Revenues and Expenses
A.   Interest rates as at Annex 4C.
B.   Other financial income
(i)  interest income on deposits averages 8%;
(ii) dividend income rises from less than 5% of net portfolio
to about 7.5%;
(iii) rents proJected at CFAF 100 million per year;
(iv)  consumer loan commissions projected at 5.6% of small
equipment and housing loans plus 2.7% of automobile loans.
C.   Administrative expenses
(j)  staff costs jump 15% in first year of new operations,
rising 10% per annum thereafter;
(ii) other costs grow 10% per annum.
D.   Provisions -   provisions are projected at approximately 1% of total
loans outstanding at year-end, net of those classified
as doubtful; equivalent.to some 1.5% of yearly dis-
bursements.
III. Borrowings
(i) Government onlending of IDA Credit: at 5% for 15
years including 3 of grace;
(ii) CCCE:
(a) SME project: at 5% for 15 years, including
3 of grace;
(b) Public sector projects: 1/
1/   Specific public sector infrastructure and social services projects for
which CCCE will continue its past support.



ANNEX 4L
Page 3
(1)  Medium-term:  CFAF 600 million for 5 years, including
1 of grace, at 3-1/2%;
(2)  Long-term:  CFAF 600 million for 8 years, including
2 of grace, at 3-1/2%.
(iii) BEAC - short- and medium-term rediscounts on normal terms;
(iv)  Other - from unidentified sources to maintain cash at CFAF 450
million.
DFCD
May 15, 1975



Annex bm
BANQUE CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVEIDPPEM4T
ProJected Loan Approvals
(GFAF million)
Sector
Term        Type         197h/75    1975/76      1976/77      1977/78    1978/79
Agriculture
Long/med.   Direct          hOO         500         500          600         600
Short       Direct          900         9h0         940        1,000       1,000
Short       Consortial   3,600       3h 60        3.760        4000         4000
Industry
Long        Direct          500         625          750         750         750
Medium      Direct          500         625          750          750        750
Short       Direct          160         200         200          267         267
Short       Consortial       80         100         100          133         133
Short       Guarantees      360         450         450          600         600
,600      2,000        2,250       2,50-0      2,500
4E
Long        Direct           50         355         475          550         550
Medium      Direct           50          85          115         150         150
Short       Direct          100         150         200          200         200
Short       Guarantees      200         2           300          300         300
W          840        1,090        1,200      1,200
ioiising
Medium      Direct          650         750          800         850         900
Consumer
Medilmn     Direct          150         150          200         200         200
Short       Direct          450          0          500          5           600
600        650          700          750        É50
Commerce
Medium      Direct           75         100          150         150         150
Short       Direct           75         100         150          150         200
15 000                  300          305
Public sector
Long/med.   Direct          200         200         200          250         250
Total     8,500       9,840      10,540       11,450      11, 600
Recapitulation
Long                        750       1,205       1,450        1,575       1,575
Medium                    1,825       2,185       2,490        2,675       2,725
Short                     5,925       6,h50       6,600        7,200       7,300
DFCD
Pebruar~y 5, 1975



Annex 4N
BANQUTE CAMIMOTJNAISE DE DE-VELOPPEMENT
Pro.iected Cash Flow
(CFAF million)
Fiscal years ending June 30
197      1976      1977      1978      1979
SOtlJRCE.S3
Borrowings
TTn4.jpntifjed 1/                         314       581       413        88      (81)
IDA/CCCE: SME project                       -       179       319       404      432
CCCE:  Public sector projects             378       243       200      216       243
BEAC:  Short- and medium-term           3,234    3,952    4 547    5,082    5 387
3,926    $,955    5,479    5,790
Loan collections
Long-terxm                                333       406       500      670       544
Mediniu-term                            1,113    1,507    1,224    1,767    2,004
Short-term                              1 643    1 795    1 943    2 088    2 220
Share capital payments                      82         -         -         -         -
Cash from operations
Net income                                115        95        90        95       90
Mon-cash charges                           60        60        60       60        60
175       -5      -170       l15-0-
Total sources                 7,272    8,818    9,296   10,470   10,899
-              -
1T.SES
Loan disbursements
Long-terM                                 430       794    1,073    1,285    1,397
Medium-terum                            1,505    1,761    2,058    2,289    2,hl4
Short-term                              1,677    1 869    1 980    2 1h9    2 257
Equit,wr investments                        25        25        25        25        25
Fixed assets expenditure                    60        60        60        60       60
Debt repayment
Outstanding as of June 30, 1974          h41        h33       420       293      148
IDA/CCCE:  SME project                      -         -         -        88      185
CCCE:  1Ùblic sector projects             116       209       257      269       260
BEAIC: ehort- and mediuim-term          2 968    3 494    3 395    h 182    4 357
Other accounts (net)                        50       173        28      (170)    (201)
Total uses                               7,272    8,818    9,296   1(,470   10,899
1/ Additlonal borrowings from unident L fied sources, net of repayments.
Fer"uary 5, 1975



Annex h 0
BArQTTE CAMEROT-NAISE DE IEVELOFPEMTT
Proiected Balance Sheete
(CFAF million)
As of Ju.ne 30:                          (Actiial)
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
AISSETS-
C irrent assets                            h>44    450     15c      450     450     450
Loan oortfolio
lhort-term loans                         1,381  1i415   1,h89   1,526   1,587   1,624
Mediinn-terrn loans                      3,199  3,591   3,845   4,679   5,201   5,608
tong-terrn loans                         2 100  2,197   2,585   3,158   3 773   4 626
Sub -total                            ,bO7,203   ?,919   9,363  10,561  îI,B5
Doubtful and unrecoverable
loans                                     369    430     495      575     670     775
Less: provisions for bad debts           -(258)  (300)   (345)   (S05) _ (470)   (545)
%et lbans                                                    93961 7,333    ,669  31  12,05e
3qnity participations (net)                 695    720     745      770     795     820
`ixedS assets (net)                        688    700      700     700     700      700
TOTAL                                 8,618  9,203   9,96L  11,453  12,7o6  14,058
LIABILITIES
Current
Short-tenn borrowings (BEhc)               680    717     794      838     gc)6    949
Clurrent maturities                        415   459      508     427      315     257
Other                                      882    700     650      600     6CO     600
1-,977         1,952   1,865   12  1,806
Medium- and 1ong-term
CCCE (excluding SME project)             1,368  1,538   1,208      988     883     839
BEAC                                     1,729  1,958   2,339   3,h4I7   4,279   5,266
KfW                                        228    1h5      62        -       -       -
Institutions                               600    482     364      312     260     208
Jovernment                                 150    100      50        -       -       -
Deposits                                   41l    h0       h0      h40       0       0
IDA/CCCE (SME project)                       -      -     179      498     902   1 33h
4,L16  4,3   4,242   5,285   Q36r 4
Unidentified                                  -    31h     895   1,308   1,396   1,315
General reserve.s                           238    265     295     325      360     395
Eql ity
Share capital                            1,h18  1,500   1,500   1,500   1,5003  1,500
-frants                                    652    650     650     650      650     650
-cclun,l:ited profits                      217    335     430      520             705
2,287  2,h85   2,580   2,670   2,?76    2,855
TOTI.L                                8,618  9,203   9,964  11,453  12,706  14,o58
?e`ouary 5, 1975



Annex 4P
BANQUE CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
ProJected Income Statements
(CFAF million)
(Actual)
Year ending June 30:         1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Income
Interest and commissions   475      54o      610     705     820      915
Other financial income      117     110       90      75      75       75
Net rentals                  95     100      100     100     100      100
Miscellaneous income         60      55       60      65       65      70
Total income             747     815     860      945   1,060   1,160
Expenses
Administrative expenses    244      275      310     340     375      425
Depreciation                 50      60       60      60      60       60
Financial expenses          185     245      280     325      385     435
Provisions 1/                72      60               80     .2-f    105
Total expenses           551     640     715      805     915   1,025
Operating income              196     175      145     140      145     135
Tax                            69      60       5o      50       50      45
Net inctme                    103     115       95      90      95       90
O 0f the provisions, the
following amounts are pro-
jected to be added to
general reserves            30      42       45      60       65      75
Consequently, net income
may be restated as
follows                    133     157      140     150     16o      165
DFCD
February 5, 1975



BANQUE CAMEROIJNIAISE DE DEVELOPPEMT
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios
Actual                              Projected
197   19-  -172   }97    1971.    22 = ~            97 198 17
Income Statement Eleinents as % of
Average Total Assets 2/
Gross Revenue                                 6.7   8.1   8.8    7.6    7.3        7.2    7.1    7.2    7.3    7.3
Less: Financial expenses                      1.8   2.0   2.1    1.8    1.8        2.2    2.3    2.5    2.6    2.7
Administrative expenses
(including depreciation)               3.6   3.8   4.2    3.4    2.9        3.0    3.1    3.0    3.0    3.1
Operating income                              1.3   2.3   2.5    2.4    2.6        2.0    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.5
Less: Provisions /                            0.2   1.3   0.4    0.3    0.4        0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
Tax and extraordinary items             1.14     -   0.7    0.7    0.9       0.5    0.4    0.4    0.3    0.3
Net profit                                   (0.3)  1.0   1.4    1.4    1.3        1.3    1.1    1.1    1.2    1.0
Selected Income and Cost Items
Dividend inconie as % of average equity
portfolio                                    5,5   5.6   4.2    4.6    403        409    5.6    6.3    7.0    7.7
Income from loans as % of average loan
portfolio d/ as                               5.6   5,7   5.7    5.7    5,8       5.7    5.8    5.9    6.2    6.2
Cost of debt as , of average total debt-    3,2   3.7   4.3    3.9    3.7          4.3    4.6    4.5    4.6    4.5
Net profit
Net profit as % of year-end share capital    loss  5.2   7.2    8,5    7.3         7.7    6.3    6.o    6.3    6.o
IJet profit as % of average equity 4/         loss  5.5   5.7    5,9    4.4        4,4    3.4    3.1    3j1    2.8
Structural Ratios
Total debt,7equity plus reserves2/. W         4.1   1.8   1.6    1.7    2.1        2.1    2.2    2.6    2.9    3.1
Term debt/Equity pluFs reserves / -V           2.7   1.5   1.3    1.5    1.6       1.7    1.8    2.2    2,5    208
Provisions as % of loan and equity
portfolio Â/                                 11.8  11.9  12.7   11.0    4.0       4.2   >4.14    4.3    4.4   14,4
-~~ -                                              _      C     -. _
1/ Excludes consortial loans.
2/ Includes consortial loans.
3/ Includes projected unidentified debt.
17/ Includes general provisions as equity.
:/ Inclides provisions for bad debts; allocations to general reserves are included in profit.
1FCD
April 18, 1975



ANNEX 4R
BANQUE CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
CONSORTIAL CREDITS
BCD makes a number of credits, called "consortial credits", in
association with commercial banks. For these credits, one of the participating
institutions is leader ("chef de file"). The leader is the only institution
in contact with the borrower. It studies the credit application more in depth
than the other institutions. It is in charge of collection and of legal action.
The same institution, or another one, is manager ("gerant") of the credit and
centralizes accounting. Either the leader or the manager ensures the relations
with the Central Bank. One or several of the participating institutions pro-
vide the funds. The credit risk is shared between the participating institu-
tions, not necessarily in relation with the amount of funds provided. When
BCD does not provide funds, its share of the credit risk appears on its books
as a contingent liability ("Engagement sur signature"). If credits are redis-
counted by the Central Bank, they are allocated, according to circumstances,
either to ordinary bank quotas or to special quotas for particular purposes.
The following examples illustrate the complexity of the system:
i.        Short-term credits for the marketing of agricultural products.  When
BCD participates in consortial credits for this purpose, it is always the
leader. Its share of the risk varies between 40% and 45%. One of the commer-
cial banks is manager. The managing bank provides all funds in cases where
rediscounting is accepted by the Central Bank on a special quota and outside
the Yaounde province. In other cases (ordinary quotas or special quotas for
Yaounde) all participating bank rediscount directly their share with the Cen-
tral Bank upon instructions of the managing bank.
ii.       Medium-term industrial credits.  Commercial banks do not lend on
medium term to industry without BCD particpation, in particular because BCD
benefits from a right to seize movable properties equivalent to that of the
Treasury. The leader studies the credit application and prepares the inter-
bank protocol. BCD is rarely leader and thinks that studies made by commercial
banks are of uneven quality. The managing bank (BCD for some forest credits
and a few industrial credits) provides the funds.    If BCD is the man-
aging bank, it channels the funds through the commercial bank of which the
borrower is a client. Risks are shared according to an inter-bank protocol.
Each participant sends to the Central Bank a guarantee ("aval") letter, and
the Central Bank directly debits the participants of their share of loss in
case of default.
DFCD
June 7, 1974



ANNEX 4S
BANQUE CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Expected Real Financial Charges on Subloans
1.        To determine the likely real cost of loans to subborrowers, real
financial charges were calculated under three different projections of future
inflation in Cameroon. Loan terms were taken as 11.00% interest and 8 year
term, including 3 years of grace. !/ The assumptions on inflation and the con-
sequent real cost of loans are as follows:
Assumed Inflation
Optimistie        Best Estimate    Pessimistic
(2 change per year)
1976                            10                  13               17
1977-80                             5                   7                10.5
1981-84                             4                   6                 7.5
Real cost (Z p.a.)            +     6.7           +     4.7         +    1.7
2.        Under all three conditions, real financial charges are positive.
Even were the first two of these assumptions to prove overly optimistic, the
real rate of nearly 2% under the pessimistic assumption indicates that charges
could remain positive.
1/   Additional assumptions are:  (i) disbursed 20% in first year, 60% in
second year and 20% in third year following approval, pursuant to assump-
tions for long-term loans in Annex 4L; (ii) equal annual principal repay-
ments; and, (iii) debt service paid at mid-year.
DFCD
May 15, 1975



ANNEX 4T
Page 1
BANQUE CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
FINANCIAL ANALYST
1.   General background and qualifications.
A financial analyst. A graduate of a college of Commerce or Business
School. Good accounting background. Five years minimum experience in
project analysis and evaluation in a development, investment or coumer-
cial bank or in the investment department of a vell established financial
enterprise. Legal and economic background helpful.
2.   Job. Evaluation of small- and medium-scale industrial investment projects:
-    Initial overall evaluation based on contact with clients and
summary analysis of proposals based on BCD's economic and fi-
nancial criteria.
-    Detailed study of project and preparation of reports which will
include an analysis of financial needs and statements, projec-
tions, profitability and rate of return, etc. Additionally.
evaluation of the economic impact of proposed projects and their
long-term benefits to Cameroon. The analyst vill work closely
with the client and technical assistance agencies in preparing
the financial and economic evaluation.
-    Supervision and follow-up of projects after approval, during
construction and after operations have started. As part of
this work, the analyst would assist clients in the creation or
improvement of internal accounting systems and procedures.
-    The analyst vill be responsible for training Cameroonian counter-
parts who vill work under his or her direct supervision.
-    Directly responsible to the Director in charge of industrial
loans.
3.   Period of Appointment.  2 or 3 years.
4.   Date of Appointment.  Summer/Fall 1975
5.   Residence.  Yaounde.
6.   Languages.  Completely fluent French.  Good knowledge of English desirable.



ANNEX 4T
Page 2
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEER
1.   General background and qualifications.
A general industrial engineer who should be a graduate of an engineering
school and have 5 or more years of experience in the technical management
of small manufacturing concerns, maintenance services in medium-size in-
dustry or broad experience in industrial consulting. The engineer should
be conversant in technical fields related to projects submitted to BCD,
in particular agricultural processing, food and light manufacturing.
Though not a specialist, the engineer should have an up-to-date general
knowledge of technical problems in manufacturing industries.
2.   Job. Evaluation of small- and medium-scale industrial investnent proposals:
-    Initial overall evaluation based on contact with clients and
summary analysis of proposals.
-    Detailed study of projects, including evaluation of design and
technology choice, proposed buildings and equipment, procure-
ment arrangements and projected costs; for expansion projects,
evaluation of existing plant and equipment. The engineer
would also assess the technical competence of the client's staff
and projected tràining or technical assistance requirements.
-    Supervision and follow-up of projects after approval, during
construction and after operations have started.
-    Responsibility for training Cameroonian counterparts who will
work under his or her direct supervision.
-    Directly responsible to the Director in charge of loans to in-
dustry.
3.   Period of Appointment.  2 or 3 years.
4.   Date of Appointment.  Summer/Fall 1975.
5.   Residence.  Yaounde.
6.   Languages.  Completely fluent French.  Good knowledge of English desirable.
DFCD
February 14, 1975



ANNEX 4U
Page 1
BANQUE CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Statement of General Policy
The purpose of this Statement is to outline the policy that shall be
applied to the activities of the Banque Camerounaise de Developpement, herein-
after referred to as the Bank.
I.   OBJECTIVES AND OPERATIONAL CRITERIA
1.        The Bank shall extend its assistance on the basis of social, economic
and financial criteria. Enterprises that submit projects to the Bank shall be
required to have efficient management, be technically sound, have satisfactory
market prospects for their production, be able to generate a financial return
on the investment and generally to contribute to the economic and social growth
of the country.
2.        As a general rule, the total amount of loans granted by the Bank,
(with the exception of seasonal agricultural loans) together with its parti-
cipations and any other commitments of a financial nature in favor of a single
enterprise may not exceed 20% of the Bank's paid-up share capital and the un-
impaired reserves.
3.        The Bank's total investments in the form of equity participations
may not exceed the total of the Bank's paid-up share capital plus unimpaired
reserves.
4.        As a general rule the Bank shall limit its equity participation in
any one enterprise to a maximum of 10% of the share capital of the enterprise.
However, such participation may exceed 10% in enterprises which are of partic-
ular interest for the development of the country, on the condition that written
agreement has been received from the Government.
5.        Generally, the Bank shall not assume managerial responsibilities in
enterprises it assists. It may, however, by a three-quarters majority decision
of the Board, assume managerial responsibility if this is justified by the
circumstances or the nature of the enterprise. The Bank may also, notwith-
standing the above restrictions, take any action it considers essential to
protect its investments.
6.        The Bank shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the funds
it disburses are effectively used for the specific purpose of its loans and
that borrowers procure the goods envisioned at reasonable prices. The Bank
shall require that its borrowers have an accounting system which meets the re-
quirements of sound management. It shall, as far as it is possible, exercise
the right to check the activities and inspect the accounts and books of the
companies it finances.



ANNEX 4U
Page 2
II. FINANCIAL POLICY
7.        The general aim of the Bank's financial policy is to maintain the
value of its own capital, to manage its funds in such a way that it is at all
times able to honor its obligations on time and to achieve a profit margin that
enables it to cover its operating costs and form adequate reserves. To this
end the Bank shall:
-    maintain inasmuch as possible a satisfactory balance between
the maturities of its own obligations and those of the loans
it grants;
-    not incur exchange risks in respect of those of its borrowings
that are repayable in foreign currencies;
-    generally require appropriate security for the loans it grants;
-    make adequate provisions against potential losses and build up
reserves to a level consistent with sound financial practices,
taking into account the size and quality of its portfolio of
loans and investments.
8.        The Bank's own accounts shall be kept in accordance with generally
accepted international standards. The Bank shall engage the services of an
independent firm of professional accountants of international repute to audit
its annual accounts.
DFCD
May 15, 1975



Annex 5
CAMEROON
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US $1000)
Fiscal Years
1976
Cumulative
First quarter               100
Second quarter              125
Third quarter               125
Fourth quarter             150
500
1977
First quarter               150
Second quarter             175
Third quarter               175
Fourth quarter              200
1,200
1978
First quarter               200
Second quarter              225
Third quarter               225
Fourth quarter              250
2,100
1979
First quarter               300
Second quarter              250
Third quarter               200
Fourth quarter              150
3,000
DFCD
February 5, 1975



