CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 575 CM
Project Agreement
(Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANQUE CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
DATED JULY 30, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANQUE
CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (hereinafter called BCD), a development
finance institution established and operating tinder the laws of the United Republic
of Cameroon (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million
dollars ($3,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BCD agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a financing agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and BCD, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to BCD on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS BCD, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree a. follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Management and Operations of BCD
Section 2.01. BCD shall carry out Part A of the Project described in Section
3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its operations and affairs


﻿4
in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Statutes and Statement
of Policy.
Section 2.02. In order to assist BCD in the appraisal of Investment Projects,
BCD shall employ two financial analysts and an engineer whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. BCD shall cause the proceeds of the Credit relent to it to
be applied exclusively to expenditures on Investment Projects in respect of which
amounts have been withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, the Development Credit Agreement and the Financing
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, BCD shall submit Investment Projects to the
Association for approval or for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account,
(b)   When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan) oi an
investment to the Association for approval, BCD shall furnish to the Association
an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to BCD under the Financing Agreement) and the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule of
amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment by BCD of the amount of the Credit,
relent to BCD under the Financing Agreement, to be used for the investment,
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)   Each request by BCD for authorization to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to BCD under the Financing Agreement) and the terms and
conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and the schedule
of repayment to the Borrower in respect of each investment shall provide for an
appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Association and the Borrower shall


﻿5
otherwise agree (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval
by the Association of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a free-limit
sub-loan, of authorization by the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(e)   Except as the Association and BCD shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
Section shall be submitted to the Association on or before December 31, 1978.
Section 2.05. (a) BCD undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby BCD shall obtain,
by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and BCD,
inclUding, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate
in the case of any investment, the right of BCD to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project,
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if the
Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the
Association or BCD shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise;
and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use
of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with BCD.


﻿6
(b)   BCD shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and BCD, (ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Financing Agreement,
and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
(c)   BCD   shall submit to the Association, for its prior approval, any
substantial changes proposed to be made by BCD in respect of the repayment
provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.06. BCD shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to BCD under the Financing Agreement, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans and investments.
Section 2.07. BCD shall duly perform all its obligations under agreements
under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal of BCD by
the Borrower or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
BCD shall promptly inform the Association of any action which would have the
effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision
of, any such agreement.
Section 2.08. If BCD establishes or acquires any subsidiary, BCD shall cause
such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of BCD hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such
obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.09. BCD shall duly perform all its obligations tinder the Financing
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BCD shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association and BCD shall otherwise agree, BCD:
(i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its assets, except
in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to maintain
its corporate existence and right to carry on operations and to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 2.11. BCD shall not amend its Statement of Policy except in
agreement with the Association.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BCD shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of Part A of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of BCD.
Section 3.02. BCD shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BCD and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BCD shall:
(i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to
maintain, at all times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section
3.05 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond BCD's
control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as shall be necessary
or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 3.04. BCD shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any outstanding debt of BCD which, in the judgment of the
Association, would materially affect BCD's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Association
and BCD, BCD shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after
the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of BCD and all its subsidiaries
then incurred and outstanding would be greater than four times the consolidated
capital and surplus of BCD and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means any debt incurred by BCD or any subsidiary maturing
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement (including the Financing Agreement) on the date and to the extent the


﻿8
amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan or
agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of Francs CFA, debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall
be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency
is at the time of such valuation, obtainable by BCD for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
(d) "consolidated debt of BCD and all its subsidiaries" means the total
amount of debt of BCD and subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by BCD to
any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to BCD or to any other subsidiary.
(e)   "consolidated capital and surplus of BCD and subsidiaries" means the
aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of BCD and
subsidiaries after excluding therefrom  such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of BCD in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in BCD or any other
subsidiary.
Section 3.06. BCD shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in
the rates of exchange between the currencies (including Francs CFA) used in its
lending and borrowing operations.
Section 3.07. The Association and BCD shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
administration, operations and financial condition of BCD and its subsidiaries, and
BCD shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and financial condition
of BCD and subsidiaries, and the progress of the Project.
Section 3.08. BCD shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
documents.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿9
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of BCD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BCD of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                                    Telex:
INDEVAS                                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BCD:
Banque Camerounaise de D6veloppement
B.P. 55
Yaound6, Cameroon


﻿10
Cable address:                                   Telex:
BANCAD                                           8225 KN
Yaound6, Cameroon
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of BCD may be taken or executed by its Directeur General or such other person
or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. BCD shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of BCD, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by BCD pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
BANQUE CAMEROUNAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
By /s / F. X. Tchoungui
Authorized Representative


