CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 575 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 30, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 575 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 30, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1975, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by Banque Camerounaise
de Developpement (hereinafter called BCD) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to BCD the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower with the
assistance of organizations specialized in the provision of technical assistance
services;
(D)   The Borrower has requested the United Nations Development
Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) to provide financial assistance towards the
financing of the technical assistance provided to small and medium-scale enterprises
in Cameroon;
(E)   BCD intends to contract from the Caisse Centrale de Coope'ration
Economique (hereinafter called Caisse Centrale), an agency of the Republic of
France, a loan (hereinafter called the Caisse Centrale Loan) in an aggregate principal
amount of thirteen million five hundred thousand French francs (FF13,500,000)
to assist in financing such project, on the terms and conditions set forth in
agreements between Caisse Centrale and BCD (hereinafter called the Caisse Centrale
Loan Agreement); and
(F)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and BCD;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
(a)   the following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in
paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(b)   the words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03;
(c)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.04(e) of the Project
Agreement no applications for approval or requests for authorization to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of any portion of the Credit
shall have been received by the Association, or having been so received, shall
have been denied or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals
and authorization or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the
case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Credit shall be
cancelled."
(d)   the words "and the Project Agreement" are added after the words
"the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06; and
(e)   the words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.


﻿5
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
*     meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BCD" means the Banque Camerounaise de Developpement, a societe
d'econonie mixte d'intert national of the Borrower, operating pursuant to Decree
No. 64/DF/487 of December 16, 1964.
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and BCD
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BCD pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Financing Agreement;
(d)   "Government Loan" means the loan provided for in the Financing
Agreement;
(e)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
BCD out of the proceeds of the Government Loan to an Investment Enterprise
for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02(b)
of this Agreement;
(f)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by BCD out of the proceeds of the Government Loan in
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(g)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which BCD proposes
to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made
an investment;
(h)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment;
(i)   "Francs CFA" and "FCFA" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(j)   "French Francs" and "FF" mean the currency of the Republic of
France;


﻿6
(k)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Borrower;
(1)   "Statutes" means the statutes of BCD dated December 16, 1964, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(m)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and investments
policy approved by the Directors of BCD on May 26, 1975 as amended
to the date of this Agreement;
(n)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by BCD or by any one or more subsidiaries of BCD or by BCD and
one or more of its subsidiaries;
(o) "CAPME" means Centre National d'Assistance aux Petites et Moyennes
Entreprises, an etablissement public a' caractere industriel et commercial, established
and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 70/LF/7 of May 20, 1970 and
Decree No. 71/DF/332 of July 19, 1971;
(p)   "SATEC" means Societe d'Aide Technique et de Cooperation, a
Societe d'Etat of the Republic of France, established and operating pursuant to
Article 2.1 of the Law of April 30, 1946 and the Arrete of November 2, 1956;
and
(q)   "AFCA" means Association pour la Formation des Cadres de
l'Industrie et de l'Administration, a French private non-profit organization,
established and operating pursuant to Loi du ler juillet 1901 of the Republic of
France.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million dollars ($3,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower may withdraw from the Credit Account the
equivalent of up to fifty per cent (50%) of such amounts as shall have been
expended (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts required to meet
expenditures to be made) by BCD for an Investment Project to finance the


﻿7
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Investment Project
in respect of which the withdrawal is requested; provided, however, that no
withdrawal shall be made (i) in respect of taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods, works or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof, and (ii) in respect of a sub-loan or investment
unless (A) the sub-loan or investment shall have been approved by the Association,
or (B) the sub-loan shall he a free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall
have authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Investment Project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed
the sum of (i) FCFA 15 million, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for such
Investment Project or (ii) $1,500,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit
sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as determined
by the Association.
(c)   Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, or in
respect of an investment, if such expenditures shall have been made before the
date of this Agreement or more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the
application and information required by Section 2.04(b) of the Project Agreement
or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Association shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.04(c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 3 1, 1980 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November I in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November 1 commencing


﻿8
November 1, 1985 and ending May 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 1, 1995, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE I
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower and
BCD in financing such productive facilities and resources in Cameroon as will
contribute to the economic and social development of the country. The Project
consists in (i) the financing by BCD of specific development projects in all
productive sectors except agriculture, housing and trade through loans to and
investments in small and medium-scale private enterprises in Cameroon, in
furtherance of the corporate purposes of BCD (Part A of the Project) and (ii)
the financing by the Borrower of technical assistance provided by CAPME, SATEC
and AFCA to small and medium-scale private enterprises in Cameroon (Part B of
the Project).
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds ot the Credit to BCD under
a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BCD under
terms and conditions which shall have beei, approved by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financing Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
BCD to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Financing Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause
to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable BCD to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, to provide technical assistance services to Investment Enterprises in


﻿9
Cameroon. To that end, the Borrower shall inter alia (i) cause CAPME to make
arrangements with organizations capable of providing such technical assistance
services on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and (ii) approve
the selection of eight technical assistance experts (six to be employed by SATEC
and two to be employed by AFCA), provided through financial assistance by UNDP,
only after their qualification, experience and proposed terms and conditions of
employment shall have been established to the satisfaction of the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   a default shall have occurred in the due and punctual payment of
any amount payable by BCD to the Borrower under the Financing Agreement;
(b)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of (i) any other
obligation of BCD under the Financing Agreement, or (ii) any obligation of BCD
under the Project Agreement;
(c)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to BCD having an original
maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have become
due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(d)   BCD shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature or any
action or proceeding shall have been taken by BCD or by others whereby any
of the property of BCD shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
(e)   a change shall have been made in the Statutes which will materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of BCD;
(f)   a change shall have been made in the Statement of Policy without
the Association's consent;
(g)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of BCD;
(h)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by BCD, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely


﻿00
10
affect the conduct of the BCD's business or BCD's financial situation or the
efficiency of the BCD's management and personnel or the carrying out of the
Project;
(i)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that BCD will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement; and
(j)   (i)         subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of BCD to withdraw the proceeds of the
Caisse Centrale Loan made to BCD for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement, or
(B)   the Caisse Centrale Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii)        subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply'if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of BCD to
perform any of its obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to BCD
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement
and of BCD under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (h) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) and (j)(i)(B)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and continue for a period of 30 days.


﻿11
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of BCD
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Financing Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and BCD, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the conditions precedent, if any, to initial disbursements under the
Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement have been fulfilled;
(d)   the Borrower shall have made arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, for the provision of technical assistance services to Investment
Enterprises as required by Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(e)   the two financial analysts and the engineer referred to in Section 2.02
of the Project Agreement have been retained by BCD; and
(f)   BCD shall have furnished to the Association certified copies of its
financial statements and the report of its auditors for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1975.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, BCD, and is legally binding upon BCD
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BCD, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and BCD in accordance with its terms.


﻿12
Section 5.03. The date December 1, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement and those of
Section 5.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre de l'Economie et du Plan of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6,02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie et du Plan
Yaound6
Cameroon
Cable address:                             Telex:
MINEP                                     8268 KN
Yaound6, Cameroon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                                440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s / F. X. Tchoungui
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


