Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7329-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rural Poverty Reduction Project 
–
Minas Gerais / 
Projeto de Combate a Pobreza 
Rural da Regi
ão Mineira do Nordeste “PCPR- 1
a
Fase”
)
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS 
 
Dated January 31, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7329-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 2006 between the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE OF 
MINAS GERAIS (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan);  
(C) 
the Project will be carried out by 
Instituto de Desenvolvimento do Norte 
e
Nordeste de Minas Gerais (IDENE)
,
an autonomous agency (
autarquia
)
of
the 
Borrower under the supervision of the Borrower’s Secretariat of State, Planning and 
Management (
Secretaria 
do Estado de Planejamento e Gestão – SEPLAG-MG),
 with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to IDENE, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended, 
through May 1, 2004), with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth: 
 
(a) 
“Approved POA” means each approved annual operating plan referred to 
in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Community Association” means a civil association formed by members 
of a community (
associação civil
)
duly established in the Borrower's territory in accordance 
with the Guarantor's laws, and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual 
for participating in the Project; 
 
(c) 
“Community Subproject” means any investment referred to in Part A of 
the Project
 
to be carried out by a Community Association utilizing the proceeds of a 
Grant and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(d)
 
“Council Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
“FUMAC Grant” means a grant approved by a Municipal Council and 
made or proposed to be made by IDENE out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Community 
Association in a Municipality, for the financing of a Community Subproject pursuant to 
the terms of the Operational Manual; 
 
(i) 
“FUMAC Pilot Grant” means a grant approved and made or proposed to 
be made by a Municipal Council, under a FUMAC Pilot Grant Agreement, out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to a Community Association in a Municipality for the financing of a 
Community Subproject pursuant to the terms of the Operational Manual; 
 
(j) 
“FUMAC Pilot Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements to be 
entered into between a Municipal Council and a Community Association in a Municipality 
providing for a FUMAC Pilot Grant; 
 
(k) 
“Grant” means any of a FUMAC Grant or a FUMAC Pilot Grant or a PAC 
Grant; 
 
(l) 
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between IDENE and a Community Association providing for a PAC Grant or a FUMAC 
Grant; 
 
(m) 
“IDENE Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and IDENE pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
IDENE Subsidiary Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“MIS” means the system referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Model Forms” means the set of model draft agreements satisfactory to the 
Bank, including standard drafts of Council Agreements, Grant Agreements and FUMAC 
Pilot Grant Agreements, set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(p) 
“Municipal Council” means a municipal council, composed mainly of 
representatives of communities and local organizations, as provided in the Operational 
Manual; 
 
(q) 
“Municipality” means any of the municipalities set forth in the Operational 
Manual (as hereinafter defined) and any other municipality that may be added to such list 
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower; 
 
(r) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; as the same may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(s) 
“PAC Grant” means a grant approved and made or proposed to be made 
by IDENE out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Community Association in a Municipality 
under a Grant Agreement for the financing of a Community Subproject in accordance with 
the terms of the Operational Manual; 
 
(t) 
“Performance Indicators” means the set of performance indicators, to be 
used for purposes of monitoring the progress of the Project, set forth in the Operational 
Manual, and any other additional performance indicator that may be agreed from time to 
time by the Bank and the Borrower for such purposes; 
(u) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated July 
7, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period of implementation of the Project, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of 
implementation of the Project; 
 
(v) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means disbursements made pursuant to 
the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part 
A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(w) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to IDENE. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty-five million 
Dollars ($35,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as well as in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, and 
any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish, after having received evidence that the Guarantor has authorized the 
extension of the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date, which shall not be a date beyond the date authorized by the 
Guarantor. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan,
 
subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
Page  7
-
6
-
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be c
onsidered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall through 
SEPLAG-MG cause IDENE, under the terms of the IDENE Subsidiary Agreement, to 
carry out the Project, with the assistance of the Municipal Councils, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate social, administrative, agricultural, 
environmental, financial and engineering practices, and in accordance with the Operational 
Manual and the Approved POAs, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.  Except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, suspend, waive 
or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.  In the case of any 
conflict between the terms of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to IDENE 
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and IDENE, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, whereby IDENE shall 
undertake to: 
(i) 
carry out the Project as set forth or referred to in this Agreement; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(ii) 
enter into Grant Agreements whenever appropriate for the 
carrying out of the Project, such agreements to be made in 
accordance with the terms of the respective draft set forth in the 
Model Forms; and 
(iii) 
enter into Council Agreements with Municipal Councils providing 
for: (A) the terms and conditions for the participation of the 
relevant Municipal Council in the Project; and (B) the obligation 
of such Municipal Council to enter into FUMAC Pilot Grant 
Agreements with Community Associations which shall be made in 
accordance with the terms of the respective draft set forth in the 
Model Forms, and, to exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the FUMAC Pilot Grant Agreements in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Municipal Council, the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan, and not to assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce 
the FUMAC Pilot Grant Agreements or any provision thereof. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the IDENE Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce the IDENE Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall cause IDENE: 
 
(a) 
to establish and maintain a Project monitoring and information system, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the MIS), to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an on-going 
basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date, the baseline evaluation study 
(
perfil de entrada) 
referred to in Part C.4 of the Project; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and yearly thereafter during 
the period of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(d) 
promptly after the preparation of each report referred to in paragraph (c) of 
this Section, to review with the Bank each such report, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said reports and the 
Bank's views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall cause IDENE: 
 
(a) 
by October 30 of each year during Project implementation, to prepare and 
furnish to the Bank the proposed annual operating plans and budget, satisfactory to the 
Bank, detailing the Project activities proposed to be carried out during the next succeeding 
year and the respective sources of funding therefor; and 
 
(b) 
not later than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower's budget by its 
Assembléia
 
Legislativa
 (Legislative Assembly), to furnish to the Bank the approved annual 
operating plans and respective budget (Approved POA) referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each year in question. 
 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall cause IDENE: 
 
(a) 
to furnish to the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective 
Date and yearly thereafter during the period of Project implementation, the results and 
recommendations of an assessment, to be carried out under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank, on the cost structure and effectiveness of Community Subprojects, including 
an evaluation of the physical performance, and cost comparisons and procurement 
procedures thereof; 
 
(b) 
to review with the Bank the results and recommendations of such 
assessments; and 
 
(c) 
to take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed 
by the Bank and the Borrower during the review referred to in paragraph (b) above, as shall 
be
 
necessary for the efficient implementation of Community Subprojects, such action to be 
taken in a manner and within a timetable agreed upon during such review. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall cause IDENE to carry out the Project in 
accordance with a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), which shall 
include, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project (including the procurement and financial requirements thereof); 
 
(b) 
criteria for selection of Municipal Councils, Community Associations and 
Community Subprojects; 
 
(c) 
requirements for implementation of Community Subprojects, including 
environmental criteria and procedures for screening and management of Community 
Subprojects, in particular for activities that: (i) use wood as fuel; (ii) produce any waste, 
liquid or solid; (iii) involve the procurement of pesticides; (iv) involve the construction of 
small dams; and (v) involve fisheries and aquaculture; and 
 
(d) 
the Model Forms and the Performance Indicators. 
 
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall cause IDENE: 
 
(a) 
to prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b) 
to afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.08. For the purposes of implementing Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: 
 (a) 
after having selected a Community Subproject, enter into a Grant 
Agreement with a Community Association, in accordance with the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
(b) 
for those Community Subprojects estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $50,000, request Bank’s prior review and approval. 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause IDENE to establish and maintain, as 
part of the MIS, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause IDENE to: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  12
-
11
-
(iii) 
ensure that the relevant statements of expenditure and reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the 
case may be, are included in the audit for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section.
 
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s reporting obligations 
set out in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause IDENE to prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank (the FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided by the Loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the IDENE Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and IDENE. 
 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
Page  13
-
12
-
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan has been duly registered by the 
Guarantor's Central Bank. 
 
Section 5.03. The date May 1, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01.  The Secretary of State, Planning and General Coordination of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaria de
 Estado, Planejamento e Gestão 
 
Governo do Estado de Minas Gerais 
 
Rua Tomas Gonzaga, 686  - 5o. Andar - Lourdes 
 
30180.140 – Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsímile:   
(55-31) 3290-8259 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
With copy to: 
 
SEAIN - 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 
3225-4022 
 
Instituto de Desenvolvimento do Norte e 
 
Nordeste de Minas Gerais  
 
Rua Rio de Janeiro, 471 - Centro 
 
Belo Horizonte - CEP: 30.160-040 
 
Minas Gerais, Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-31) 
2129-8114 
 
Gabinete de Secretario de Estado Extra
ordinário  
 
para o Desenvolvimento dos Vales do Jequitinhonha e Mucuri 
 
e
do Norte de Minas
 
Rua Rio de Janeiro, 471 
–
10º andar – Centro 
 
Belo Horizonte - CEP: 30.160-040 
 
Minas Gerais, Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  
(55-31) 2129-8119 
 
Subsecretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Secretaría de Desenvolvimento Economico 
 
Rua Rio de Janeiro, 471 
–
16º andar – Centro 
 
Belo Horizonte - CEP: 30.160-040 
 
Minas Gerais, Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  
(55-31) 2129-6293 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Belo Horizonte, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS 
 
By /s/ 
Aécio Neves da Cunha 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Witnessed by: 
 
/s/ Érico Andrade 
Attorney General of the State of Minas Gerais 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Grants:  
 
75% of expenditures for 
goods, works and services 
for a Community 
Subproject financed by a 
Grant 
 
(a) PAC Grants 
6,450,000 
 
(b) FUMAC Grants 
20,520,000 
 
(c)  FUMAC Pilot Grants 
1,700,000 
 
(2) Consultants' services 
1,400,000 
100% 
 
for Parts B and C of the 
 
Project 
 
(3)  Training for Parts 
1,500,000 
100% 
 
B
and C of the Project 
Page  17
-
16
-
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(4) Administrative Costs: 
 
(a) incremental operational 
 
costs 180,000 
20% 
 
(b) Project supervision and 
250,000 
50% 
 
monitoring costs 
 
(5)  Fee 
350,000 
Amount due 
 
under Section 
 
2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6)   Premia for Interest 
-0- 
Amount due under 
 
Rate caps and 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
this Agreement 
 
(7)  Unallocated  
2,650,000 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 35,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term: 
 (a) 
“Training” includes all reasonable training-related expenditures except 
consultants’ services. 
 
(b) 
“Administrative Costs” means the incremental operational costs (which 
would not have been incurred absent the Project) and the supervision and monitoring costs 
of the Project incurred by IDENE under Part C of the Project, excluding expenditures for 
salaries and related benefits and training. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,500,000 may be made on 
account of payments made within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods and works 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services of individual consultants 
Page  18
-
17
-
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) for services of consulting firms 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request 
submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the 
Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such 
request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank at any time is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;
 
Page  19
-
18
-
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Bank shall not have received, within the period of time specified in 
Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (i) the records and accounts 
for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may be. 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $3,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to reduce the high levels of 
rural poverty in the Municipalities by: (a) improving the well-being and incomes of the 
rural poor through better access to basic socio-economic infrastructure and services and 
support for productive activities, using proven community-driven development 
techniques; (b) increasing the social capital of rural communities to organize collectively 
to meet their own needs; (c) enhancing local governance by greater citizen participation 
and transparency in decision-making, through creation and strengthening of community 
associations and Municipal Councils; and (d) fostering closer integration of development 
policies, programs and projects at the local level, by assisting Municipal Councils to 
extend their role in seeking funding, priority-setting and decision-making over resource 
allocation, and by assisting the Borrower to measure the efficiency and impact of its own 
programs to reduce rural poverty in rural space. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Community Subprojects
Financing, through PAC Grants, FUMAC Grants and/or FUMAC Pilot Grants, of 
small scale community investments (Community Subprojects) consisting, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) 
infrastructure investments such as for rural water supply, electrification, local road 
improvements and construction of small bridges; (b) social investments such as 
construction of day care centers and rehabilitation of schools and health posts; and (c) other 
investments such as for small-scale community agro-processing, purchase of agricultural 
equipment and minor irrigation schemes. 
Part B
:
Institutional Development
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and training for Community Associations in, 
inter 
alia
,
community mobilization and organization, preparation of Community Subprojects, 
and operation and maintenance of such Community Subprojects. 
2. 
Training and equipping of Municipal Councils with respect to the role of 
Municipal Councils, the contents of the Operational Manual, subproject evaluation and 
supervision, environmental assessment of subprojects, participatory planning and financial 
management. 
Page  23
-
22
-
3.  
Provision of on-the-job training and expert advice for IDENE staff, Municipal 
Councils, and Community Associations on technical matters regarding the Community 
Subprojects preparation/execution cycle (such matters to include, for example, standard 
designs, monitoring techniques and financial management). 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance for SEPLAG-
MG’s staff in support of the 
implementation of the Borrower's modernization reforms, particularly in promoting the 
integration of the Borrower’s policy for poverty reduction and strengthening the 
Borrower’s management capacity to better monitor the impact of its public expenditures to 
reduce poverty in the rural space. 
5. 
Carrying out of workshops and seminars for Municipal Councils and Community 
Associations to exchange views and disseminate information and experience with respect to 
the carrying out of the Project. 
Part C
:
Project Administration
Support to the overall Project implementation, coordination and supervision 
including, 
inter alia
:
1. 
the operation of IDENE and its field offices related to Project implementation; 
2. 
the establishment and operation of the MIS; 
3. 
the design, development and carrying out of a statewide information campaign 
within the Borrower’s territory to disseminate information about the Project; and 
4. 
the carrying out of studies to assess the impact of the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
a
baseline evaluation study, annual physical performance reviews, a mid-term 
implementation review, and a comprehensive impact evaluation. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2010. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  
(a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first 
Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such 
repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2010 through October 15, 2021 
4.17 % 
 
On April 15, 2022 
4.09 % 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, 
the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment 
Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on 
Page  25
-
24
-
any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if 
at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such subparagraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall 
apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a 
separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than c
onsultant’s services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultant’s Services)
.
A. 
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, goods, works and services 
(other than consultants’ services) shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions, using bidding 
documents, satisfactory to the Bank, in a standardized form for the Project: 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.52 
of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall 
be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
in at least one newspaper of national circulation in Brazil; 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(
consórcios
)
of
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case; 
Page  27
-
26
-
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other 
terms and conditions of sale. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Shopping
:
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping procedures, and a standard request for 
quotations acceptable to the Bank. 
2. Community 
Participation
:
Goods, work
s
and services (other than consultants’ 
services) under Community Subprojects, costing less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual for community participation. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting,  may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract and which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  28
-
27
-
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants, the report on the qualifications and experience 
of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
 
