                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                         ReportNo: 33165-BR




                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                             ONA

                                      PROPOSEDLOAN

                         INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$35.0MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                 STATE OFMINAS GERAIS

                               WITHTHE GUARANTEEOF

                        THE FEDERATIVEREPUBLIC OFBRAZIL

                                            FORA

                        RURALPOVERTYREDUCTIONPROJECT

                                         August 5,2005




Brazil CountryManagementUnit
Environmentallyand SociallySustainableDevelopmentSectorManagementUnit
Latin AmericaandCaribbeanRegion




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (ExchangeRateEffective June 30,2005)
                      CurrencyUnit = Real(R$)
                              R$1.00 = US$0.4255
                            US$l.OO      =     R$2.3504

                                 FISCALYEAR
                          January 1      - December31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB           Bank of Brazil
BN           Bank of the Northeast
CA           Community Association
CAS          World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
CDD          Community-Driven Development
EMATER-MG    Minas Gerais State Company for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
FUMAC .      Municipal Community Scheme
GOB          Federal Government of Brazil
HDI          UNHumanDevelopment Index
IBGE         BrazilianInstitute for Geography and Statistics
IDENE        Instituto de Desenvolvimentodo Norte e Nordeste de Minas Geraisl
             Minas Gerais Northern and Northeastern Development Institute
IEF          Instituto Estadual da Florestal StateForestry Institute
M C          MunicipalCouncil
MIS          Management Information System
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
NRDPPAPP     Northeast Rural Development Program
PAC          State Community Scheme
PPA          Multi-year Government Investment Plan
PRONAF       Brazilian Federal Program to Support Family Agriculture
R-NRDP       Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program
RPAP         Rural Poverty Alleviation Projecflrogram
RPRP         Rural Poverty ReductionProjecflrogram
SEBRAE       Brazilian Agency for Micro and Small Enterprise Assistance
SEDVAN       Secretariade Estado Extraordinbrio para o Densenvolvimentodos Valesdo
             Jequitinhonha e Mucuri e Norte de Minas GeraidSpecial State Secretariat for the
             Development of the Jequitinhonha Mucuri Valleys and Northern Minas Gerais
SEPLAG-MG    Secretariade Estado de Planejamento e GestZo/
             Minas Gerais State Secretariat of Planning and Management
SOE          Statemento f Expenditures
STU          State Technical Unit
T A          Technical Assistance



                        Vice President:   Pamela Cox
              Acting Country Director:    Letitia A. Obeng
                        Sector Director:  John Redwood
                     Task Team Leader:    Luis 0.Coirolo

                                                                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                     BRAZIL
                                  RuralPovertyReductionProject MinasGerais                     .

                                                                  CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                             Page

          A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                               ..................................................................     3
           1.  Country and sector issues ....................................................................................................                   3
           2. Rationalefor Bank involvement.......................................................................................... 4

          B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                     ..................................................................................................        6
           1. Lendinginstrument.............................................................................................................. 6
           2.  Project development objective and key indicators ..............................................................                                  6
           3.  Project components..............................................................................................................                 6
           4.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design ............................................................ 8
           5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.............................................................                                  10

          C IMPLEMENTATION
           .                                  .........................................................................................................        11
            1. Institutional and implementation arrangements..............................                                ;..................................  11
           2. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results ................................................................                                   13
           3 . Sustainability ..................................................................................................................... 14
           4.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                               15
            5. Loan conditions and covenants..........................................................................................                         15

          D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
           .                                         ..................................................................................................        16
            1. Economic and financial analyses.......................................................................................                           16
            2. Technical............................................................................................................................ 17
            3. Fiduciary ............................................................................................................................           17
            4. Social .................................................................................................................................         18
            5. Environment ......................................................................................................................               19
            6. Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................. 20
            7. Policy exceptions and readiness ........................................................................................                         20

          Annex 1: DetailedProjectDescription                     ......................................................................................
                                                                                               P                                                                21

          Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies                                                               ..................29
          Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring                               .........................................................................       30


This document hasa restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipients only in
the performanceof their officialduties I t s contents may not be otherwisedisclosed
lwithoutWorld Bank authorization                      .       .

Annex 4: Project Costs................................................................................................................      32

Annex 5: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                           ...................................... 33

Annex 6: Procurement Arrangements              .......................................................................................      36

Annex 7: ImpactAnalysis   ...........................................................................................................       42

Annex 8: Project Preparation and Supervision                   ........................................................................     53

Annex 9: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                ....................................................................................     54

Annex 10: Statementof Loansand Credits                  ...............................................................................     55

Annex 11:Country at a Glance       ..................................................................................................       59

                                                     BRAZIL
                                RuralPovertyReductionProject           - MinasGerais'

 Date: August 5,2005                                        Team Leader: Luis 0.Coirolo
 Acting Country Director: Letitia A. Obeng                  Sectors: Other social services (85%); Sub-national
 Sector Director: John Redwood                             government administration (10%); Central government
                                                           administration (5%)
                                                            Themes: Access to urban services and housing
                                                            (P);Rural non-farm income generation (P);Rural markets
                                                            (P);Participation and civic engagement (S)
 Project ID: PO52256
 Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan              Environmental screeningcategory: Category B




 Total Bank financing (US$m.): 35.00




1Communitv Associations                              I                4.2 III               0.0 I
                                                                                                II             4.2
     ~    ~~~


 IBRD                                                                  0.0                 35.0               35.0
                                              Total: I               11.8                  35.0               46.8

 Borrower:
 State of Minas Gerais/ Secretary of State Planning and Management (SEPLAGMG)
 Rua Tomas Gonzaga, 686
 50. Andar - Lourdes
 Belo Horizonte
 Minas Gerais
 Brazil
 30180.140 Fax: 55-31-3290-8259

 Responsible Agency:
 Instituto de Desenvolvimento do Norte e Nordeste de Minas Gerais (IDENE)
 Rua Rio de Janeiro, 471- Centro
 Belo Horizonte
 Minas Gerais
 Brazil
 30.160-040 Fax: 55-31-2129-8114

I




 Expected effectiveness date: September 30, 2005                               Expected closing date: July 31,2010




 ' Known       inBrazil as Projetode Combatea Pobreza Rural da Regia0 Mineira do Nordeste "PCPR- l a Fase"


                                                         I

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?Ref. PAD A.3             [ ]Yes [XlNo
Does the proiect require any exceptions from Bank policies?Ref. PAD 0.7
          - "                                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                                          [ ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                          [ ]Yes [XJNo
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"? Ref. PAD C.5               [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?Ref. PAD 0.7              [XIYes [ ] N o
Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2

The project aims to assist the State of Minas Gerais to reduce high levels of ruralpoverty by: (a) improving well-
being and incomes of the rural poor through better access to basic socio-economic infrastructure and services and
support for productive activities, using proven community-driven development techniques; (b) increasing the social
capital of rural communities to organize collectively to meet own needs; (c) enhancing local governanceby greater
citizen participation and transparency indecision-making, through creation and strengthening of community
associationsand MunicipalCouncils; and (d) fostering closer integration of development policies, programs and
projects at the local level, by assisting Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding, priority-setting
and decision-making over resource allocation, and by assistingthe government to measure the efficiency and impact
of its own programs to reducerural poverty inrural space.

Project description Ref. PAD B.3.a

Component 1(Community Subprojects) provides matching grants to rural community associationsto finance
approximately 1,860 socio-economic infrastructure and productive subprojects (up to US$50,000 each) identified by
these groups as priority investments that will improve community well-being and benefit around 93,000 families.

Component 2 (Institutional Development) will finance technical assistanceand training to increasecapacity of
implementing entities including MCs, community associationsand the STU.

Component 3 (Administration, Supervision, Monitoringand Evaluation) will finance incremental costs (excluding
salaries) of project administration and coordination, including supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD 0.6
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)

Significant, non-standardconditions, if any, for:

Loan effectiveness:

Signing of a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the State of Minas Gerais and IDENE.




                                                            2

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Country andsectorissues

The northern half of the State of Minas Gerais shares many of the physical and social characteristics of
the Brazilian Northeast region, among them the high incidence of rural poverty, which is concentratedin
the regions known as Norte de Minas, Vale do Jequitinhonha and Vale do Mucuri. Statewide, some
631,000 rural households earn less than US$2.50 per day - or less than US$1 per person per day - and
most of these households are located in the proposed project area. Among these poor rural households,
approximately 50 percent lack piped water supply, about 35 percent are without sanitation services, and
25 percent have no access to electricity, compared, respectively, with 3, 1 and 1 percent for all urban
households in Minas Gerais, and 44, 30 and 19 percent for rural Brazil as a whole. GDP per capita in the
proposed project area is less than half that of Minas Gerais as a whole, infant mortality is 29 per cent
above the average level for the State, and the percentage of population without formal education is 86
percent above the corresponding statewidefigure.

Bank-financed, community-driven development (CDD) in Northeast Brazil began in 1985 under a
component of the Northeast.Rural Development Program (NRDP) which financed small-scale, demand-
driven productive investments for poor rural communities. The component - Apoio bs Pequenas
Comunidades Rurais (APCR) - was the only NRDP activity to disburse effectively and achieve positive
results on the ground. In late 1993, drawing on lessons from the APCR and similar schemes elsewhere in
Latin America, the NRDP was reformulated into a full-scale, community-based development program (R-
NRDP), which featured decentralized decision-making and community counterpart financing
responsibilities. Subsequently, eight Northeast State Governmentsscaled-up the field-tested R-NRDPand
ushered in the follow-on Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAPs), beginningin 1995/96, succeeded
by a third generation of similar sub-national projects - the Rural Poverty Reduction Program (RPRP),
now operational since 2001. The RPRP i s consolidating gains made under the previous generations of
CDD projects, while simultaneously integrating activities of the participatory project Municipal Councils
with the local government and, through more focused investment linked to the Human Development
Index (HDI) and integrated with other State- and Federal-level interventions, promoting asset
accumulation of the poorest. Subsequent evaluation of these CDD projects confirms that not only has it
been an effective model for rural poverty reduction, but also developed into a key tool of the Northeast
States for promotingorganized decentralization, local development and community participation.

The cumulative experience of the Northeast Program (Le., R-NRDP, RPAP and RPRP) provides a
springboard for the Government of Minas Gerais to advance to a new level of development impact in the
rural space. Besides improving the well-being of a much larger number of rural communities through
better access to essential infrastructure and services, the main contribution of the proposed Rural Poverty
Reduction Project (RPRP) will be to test strategies to extend the reach of the Municipal Councils, by
progressively involving them in proactively seeking fundingfrom and participating in priority-settingand
decision-making on resource allocation over a much wider range of Federal, State and local programs.
Currently, a large share of the resources available under those programs either do not reachthe rural poor,
are directed to activities that are not among the highest priorities of the beneficiaries, or are not delivered
in a cost-effective manner. Successful execution of the RPRP will help to realign and better integrate
these programs, thereby leveraging the overall impact of public resources directed towards rural poverty
reduction. A surprising30% of the more than 1,500 project municipal councils establishedto date across
the Northeast now participate in discussions about broader municipal investment needs, thus helping to
shape a framework for development of the greater municipality.              Notably, about 25% of all the
community associations are now using community assets and social capital to leverage financing from
sources beyondthe Northeast Program.




                                                      3

The R-NRDP in Minas Gerais covered the municipalities of the northern part of Minas Gerais, belonging
to the region known as Norre de Minas. Recently, the project area was further extended to include some
municipalities in the similarly poor regions of Vale do Jequitinhonha and Vale do Mucuri, located in the
northeastern part of the State. In Minas Gerais, the R-NRDP was not followed by a Rural Poverty
Alleviation Project as other Northeast States.         The results and the experience gained from the
implementation of the RPAPs in the Northeast States are relevant, however, to Minas Gerais and were
used in the design of the new RPRP for the State. Notwithstanding the absence of a Bank-supported
project under the Northeast Program in Minas Gerais since the closing of the R-NRDP, the State has
remained engaged in CDD through (i)          its participation in the Bank-financed Land-Based Poverty
Alleviation Project (CrLdito Fundidrio), (ii)continued involvement of the State team in Northeast
Program events and (iii)   the implementation of some State-financedpoverty reduction activities following
the CDD methodology. Furthermore, the Government of Minas Gerais kept together the same technical
team that worked in the execution of the R-NRDP; this same team will be responsible for the
implementation of the new RPRP.

As part of its efforts to reduce rural poverty, the Federal Government has agreed to support the RPRPin
the Northeast region, includingthe State of Minas Gerais. Specifically, the Federal Government has
agreed on aggregate borrowing amounts, which it will guarantee for each state, with half to be borrowed
in an initial project and the balance for a second-stage operation after successfulcompletion of the first.
The proposed loan to Minas Gerais would support that state's initial RPRP project. Similar projects are
now under implementation in the states of Bahia, CearB, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do
Norte and Sergipe.

The project supports a CDD approachto rural poverty reduction, and fosters decentralization through the
promotion of strong local participation in decision-making and resource allocation. The existing policy
and institutional framework in Brazil is supportive of these objectives and i s not expected to inhibit
project viability.  Rather, the need at this stage i s to scale up implementation of successful approaches
thus far tested under the NortheastProgram, bothexpanding geographic coverageand extendingthe reach
and potential impact of Municipal Councils on rural poverty reduction.

2. Rationale for Bankinvolvement

As the principal international partner engaged in a sustained, long-term partnership with the Brazilian
Government to address rural poverty issues in the Northeast, the Bank i s particularly well-placed to
support expansion of community-based rural development efforts in the region. The Bank contributes its
experienceunder the successful R-NRDP, RPAP and RPRP projects inthe Northeast -which have served
as a template in the design of this new operation. Bank participation will ensure that international
experiencewith past andongoing community-driven programs is incorporatedinto project design and that
soundinternational quality standards of monitoring, evaluation and impact assessment are applied.

An especially important feature of Bank value-added inMinas Gerais will be its ability to facilitate closer
local integration of a wide spectrum of programs aimed at rural poverty reduction. The Bank i s well-
positioned to help forge these links, not only becauseof its direct role in financing the Northeast Program
and developing the participatory Municipal Council mechanism, but also because of its involvement in
other important sectoral programs relevant to rural poverty reduction (irrigation, agricultural research,
land reform, education, municipal development) and the many opportunities for policy dialogue and
consensus building in the context of its fairly active program of collaborative research and analytical
work on poverty and rural development issues in Brazil.
As the program has evolved and processes become increasingly refined, the Bank's role has also
progressed. Under the RPAPs, the Bank assumed the critical role of catalyst, serving as an independent
monitor and evaluator of program performance, helping to ensure that processes were complied with, that

                                                      4

undue interference was minimized, and that lessons learnt during implementation were captured and
applied. Under the new program, where processes have already been well-developed, it is envisagedthat
the role of the Bank will shift once again to focus increasingly on strengthening the linkages between
community organizations, their representative councils, local government, other public programs,
financial institutions and markets. By serving as facilitator, the Bank can play a critical role in
formalizing municipal councils as key partnersinthe localdevelopment process, be catalytic in helpingto
consolidate the participatory and transparent resource allocation at the local level (including the use of
information technologies), and ensure that these processes continue beyond the life and scope of the
project when external support will be gradually phased out or redirected to other aspects of poverty
reduction.

Several strategic choiceshavebeen made indesigning the project, such as:
   Stimulating improvements in both social welfare and local economic activity. A key constraint to rural
   development in Minas Gerais has been the lack of opportunity to intensify smallholder agriculture, and
   stimulate growth of commercial agriculture, downstream processing and other non-farm activities.
   This project will diversify income and employment opportunities in a range of farm and non-farm
   endeavors through support for productive activities, technical assistance and investment in social and
   economic infrastructure/services, identifiedby communities as most relevant for their well-being.

   Community-basedapproach: The community-based approach, when compared to similar investments
   executed by traditional public sector entities, has proven to be cost-effective, more responsiveto local
   priorities and to offer better prospectsfor sustainability.

   Integration of programs, policies and actions at the local level. Adopting a decentralized approach
   that focuses decision-making at the local level has helped to overcome the complexity problems of
   earlier failed attempts at integrated rural development. A growing number of Municipal Councils in
   Northeast States are proactively seeking funding from and participating in decision-making over non-
   project sources of finance. Under the new project, Councils will be further encouraged through
   training and technical assistance to expand their input into broader local planning, with a view to
   achieving better integration of policies and programs and improving the impact of public resources
   available for poverty reduction.     Integration will also be effected through partnerships between the
   STU, Federal, State and Municipal agencies, civil society and Municipal Councils to improve the
   planning and execution of community investments, deliver TA and training, leverage additional
   funding, promote mobilization and organization, and bring strategic resources to the project, all of
   which are crucial to rationalize human and financial resources for poverty reduction in an era of
   increasing fiscal austerity. The establishment of the Special Secretariat for the Development of Vales
   do Jequitinhonha e Mucuri e Norte de Minas Gerais (SEDVAN) further catalyzes these efforts of
   local-level integration.

   Targeting of resources. One of the most important benefits of the project will come from community
   experiencegained through managing an investment subproject and participating in decision-making in
   a Municipal Council. For that reason, a minimum level of funding has been allocated to each
   participating rural municipality in the project area, with proportionally higher levels targeted to the
   poorest municipalities with the greatest needs, as determined by the United Nations Human
   Development Index (HDI).
   Environmental preservation and protection. Sustainability of project-financed assets and of rural
   communities' physical "space" can be strengthened by actions which ensure appropriate subproject
   design and environmental oversight. The proposed project will provide access to environmental
   expertise via an in-house environmental specialist and partnerships for training and education
   activities through the State Forestry Institute (IEF) - responsible for environmental preservation and
   protection - and EMATER-MG - responsible for agricultural extension - to build awareness of sound
   natural resources managementand environmental practicesinto community development agendas.


                                                      5

0   Rigorous monitoring and evaluation. The predecessor R-NRDP project made substantialprovision for
    piloting, testing, and M&E, and this was extremely helpful for continuous refinement of processes.
     Under the new project, an enhancedMIS and an evaluation framework based on best-practice will be
     implemented to measureimpact through independently executed, repeater surveys of beneficiaries and
     control group panels, with a view to maximizingpoverty reduction impact.


0    Information Technology. The new project will use information technology to increasetransparency by
     making available, in real time, information about the project itself, as well as using the Internet to
     connect communities directly to markets, both inBrazil and internationally.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

Total project cost i s estimatedat US$46.8 million. A Specific Investment Loan (SIL) of US$35.0 million
i s recommended.

2. Project development objective and key indicators

The project aims to assist the State of Minas Gerais to reduce high levels of rural poverty by:         (a)
improving well-being and incomes of the rural poor through better access to basic socio-economic
infrastructure and services and support for productive activities, using proven community-driven
development (CDD) techniques;          (b) increasing the social capital of rural communities to organize
collectively to meet own needs; (c) enhancing local governance by greater citizen participation and
transparency in decision-making, through creation and strengthening of community associations and
Municipal Councils; and (d) fostering closer integration of development policies, programs and projects at
the local level, by assisting Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding, priority-setting
and decision-making over resource allocation, and by assisting the government to measure the efficiency
and impact of its own programs to reduce rural poverty in ruralspace.

Key performance indicators include: (i)     number of families benefited from subproject investments; (ii)
increase in social welfare of rural communities; (iii) in social capital index of project Municipal
                                                        increase
Councils; (iv) number of Municipal Councils participating in priority-setting and decision-making on
resource; (v) allocation of project and non-project funded development activities; (vi) increase in total
project and non-project financing allocated through Municipal Council mechanism; and (vii) number of
communities graduatedfrom the programand successfully linkedto other financing sources.

3. Project components

Component 1 Community Subprojects provides matchinggrants to ruralcommunity associationsto
                 -                            -
finance approximately 1,860 socio-economic infrastructure and productive subprojects (up to US$50,000
each) identified by these groups as priority investments that will improve community well-being and
benefit around 93,000 families. After approval of subprojects by the State Technical Unit or project
Municipal Councils, project funds are disbursed directly to the community associations, which manage
subproject implementation, operation and maintenance. This component includes three subprograms -
PAC, FUMAC andFUMAC-P.

0     State Community Schemes (PAC).          Under the PAC subprogram, rural communities submit their
      investment proposals directly to the State Technical Unit (STU), which screens and approves them
      and releases funds to the beneficiary associations. Under the proposed project, PAC will be used to
      respond to demands from communities in municipalities where a Municipal Council has not yet been
      created. It will also be retained as an option to which communities may occasionally resort in cases


                                                       6

    where Municipal Councils are not functioning properly. The PAC scheme is expected to assist
    towards the creation of social capital. To achieve this, the STU will enroll the support of community
    associations who have benefited from PAC subprojects to help other communities to organize their
    own associationsand to assist in the process of forming aMunicipal Council inthe municipality. The
    mechanics of this processare detailed inthe project Operational Manual. PAC i s expectedto account
    for about 23 percentof the component cost.
    Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC).                Under FUMAC, decision-making on investment
    proposals i s delegated by the State to project Municipal Councils, composed of community members
    and representativesof civil society and municipal authorities. A majority of Council voting members
    (i.e., at least two-thirds) are potential project beneficiaries or representatives of civil society. The
    Municipal Councils discuss and seek to build consensus on priorities and approve community
    proposals, in the context of an indicative annual budget amount determined by the State Technical
    Unit. After the Councils' recommendationsare reviewedby the STU for consistencywith guidelines
    in the project Operational Manual, funds are disbursed directly to the community associations. This
    subprogram will account for about 72 percent of total community subproject costs.
    Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P). The FUMAC-P i s a more decentralized variant of
    FUMAC pilotedunder the RPAP with high-performing Municipal Councils, and will be tested inthe
    Minas Gerais RPRP. The STU establishes an annual budget envelope, according to a distribution
    formula based on clear and measurablecriteria (Le., IDH). Based on this budget, Municipal Councils
    submit an Annual Operating Plan (Pluno OperativoAnual) for STU review. Upon approval, funds
    are transferred to the Council, which is then responsible for managing its distribution to community
    associationsand assistingthemwith implementation of subprojects. It is expectedthat under the new
    RPRP project, about 5 percent of total component resources would be used under the FUMAC-P
    subprogram.
Component 2 Institutionaldevelopment will finance technical assistance and training to increase
                 -                              -
capacity of implementing entities includingMunicipal Councils, community associations and the STU. It
also includes funds for technical assistance to support Minas Gerais in addressing state modernization,
particularly in promoting the integration of state-level policy for poverty reduction and strengtheningthe
managementcapacity of the state to better monitor the impact of its public expendituresto reduce poverty
in the rural space. This component will also support the expansion of information technology to increase
transparency andto connect communities andMunicipal Councils to markets.

Component 3 Project administration will finance incremental costs (excluding salaries) of project
                 -                           -
administration and coordination, including supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation.


                 Component                        Indicative                          Bank
                                                  Costs,Incl.        % of       Financing           % Bank
                                                Cont. (US$M)        Total          (US$M)        Financing
 1. Communitysubprojects                             40.70          86.97%         30.50         87.14%
 (i) PAC                                              9.20          19.66%         6.90          19.71%
 (ii) FUMAC                                          29.10         62.18%          21.80         62.29%
 (iii) FUMAC-P                                        2.40          5.13%          1.80           5.14%
 2. InstitutionalDevelopment                          3.30          7.05%          3.30           9.43%
 3. Administration, Supervision,                      1.40
 MonitoringandEvaluation                                            2.99%          0.85           2.43%
                              Front-endFee            0.35          0.75%          0.35           1.OO%
 TOTAL                                               46.80         100.00%         35.00         100.00%



                                                       7

4. Lessons learnedand reflectedinthe project design

Decentralization of investment decision-making and implementation from federal to state and local
governments and to community organizations ensures efficient program administration and superior
outcomes. Experience in Northeast Brazil shows that decentralized community-driven approaches can
reduce bureaucracy, eliminate administrative bottlenecks and reinforce accountability for project
performance by placing decision-makers near beneficiaries. Under the new project the institutional
structure will be devolved, with delegation of duties to Municipal Councils and utilization of STU
regional offices to promote more responsive and local level monitoring, data collection, coordination, and
supervision.

Participation by beneficiaries in the selection, financing, execution, and O&M of subprojects has ensured
in the experience of the Northeast Program that investments meet genuine community needs, generating
cost savings, and increasing community `ownership', thus leading to improved sustainability of
investments. This methodology startedwith the R-NRDP in 1993, was further developed inthe Northeast
States that executedRPAPprojects, and will be applied under the new project inMinas Gerais.

Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based on objective criteria, can foster
transparency, minimize political interference in project resource allocation and ensure that project
resources reach the poorest areas. Poverty targeting mechanisms under the Northeast Program to date
have been notably effective in reaching the poorest rural populations inthe Northeast. The ex ante socio-
economic profile of project beneficiaries indicates that, on average, 40% are illiterate, 50% have insecure
access to basic food and a majority has incomes below the poverty line. Under the new project, broad
targeting will be undertakenat the municipal level, by allocating higher indicative budgets to the MCs of
the municipalities with lower HDIs. At the community level, targeting will be applied by the Municipal
Councils themselves, which will be encouragedand technically assisted to undertake a poverty rankingof
the communities in their municipalities and to establish transparent criteria to prioritize subproject
proposals.

Supervision has been found to be an indispensable determinant of success and sustainability. It needs to
be reinforced at all levels and involve local entities closest to the communities, particularly Muncipal
Councils and NGOs. IDENE will decentralize supervisory responsibilities to its regional offices and to
EMATER-MGstaff, who will also be the entry point for community requests for subproject financing
under PAC. Under the new project, supervision responsibilities will also be increasingly devolved to
Municipal Councils, who will be supported with training and technical assistance. Measures will also be
taken to provide computers and information technology to the Councils to allow them to receive and
exchange information through the Internet and to modernize management.

A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system facilitates the subproject evaluation process, provides
feedback and necessary information to improve targeting and efficiency, and i s an essential management
and planningtool. Under the new project, an MIS drawing on the experience of the MIS used inthe other
Northeast States that implemented RPAP projects will be used in the Minas Gerais RPRP to ensure real
time monitoring of the entire project cycle. A comprehensive impact evaluation component will also be
introduced to measure income, welfare and social capital gains.

Dissemination of "bestpractices", such as experienceswith NGOs inRio Grande do Norte, EMATERCE
inCeara, FUMACCouncils in Bahia and Sergipe and FUMAC-P inPernambuco can hastenlearningand
reward innovation. Under the new project, exchanges between states, municipalities and communities
will be expandedfurther usingmore frequent training seminars, and workshops.

Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies the subproject
preparation and evaluation process, improves the quality of subprojects, facilitates the procurement of


                                                      8

goods and works, prevents over-design and enables participation by poorer communities. The existing
database of standard designs and documentation coming from the RPAPs implemented in the Northeast
States, which are being reviewed and technically updated and expanded where necessary, will be made
available to IDENE,which already has some standardproject designs and technical parametersdeveloped
under the R-NRDP. This database offers a valuable asset for the implementation of the new project in
Minas Gerais, allowing this State to benefit from the accumulated experience of other Northeast States.
Technical parameters and unit cost estimates useful for subproject design will be prepared and
periodicallyupdated, and will be disseminatedto Municipal Councils and Community Associations.

Environmental protection criteria: The detailed environmental checklist developed under RPAP in the
Northeast States will be used in Minas Gerais for the proposed project to optimize the criteria and
procedures - and their application - for evaluating environmental impact of subprojects.              Where
environmental issues are a concem, standard subproject designs have been developed in the Northeast
States and have been adopted by Minas Gerais to be usedby communities and Municipal Councils for the
design and implementation of subprojects. An environmental specialist will be maintained at the STU to
provide additional technical assistance on environmental matters as well as provide training to increase
environmental awareness of Municipal Councils and community groups. The project will also ensure that
subproject investments abide by existing agro-ecological zoning already completed for Minas Gerais.
Partnerships will be fostered with state and municipal environmental agencies (e.g., IEF) and NGOs to
develop a culture of environmental awareness in the communities and Councils through training and
education.

Technicalassistance enhances the ability of Community Associations andMunicipal Councils to identify,
prepare and implement subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete for investment funds.
Technical assistance needs to betargetedto weaker municipalities to improve their planning, management
and financial capacity to participate in the project. Municipal Councils will also be equipped with
computers to enhance their operational efficiency.         Locating and developing sources of technical
assistance in rural areas requires significant attention and needs to be monitored at the local level. Under
the new project, attention will be placed on training at the community level. To this effect, funds will be
made available for the recruitment on a competitive basis of independent technical advisors by the MCs in
municipalities without presence of EMATER-MG, with preference to local providers. These advisors
will be responsible for managing and coordinating local technical and training needs. Increasing efforts
will also be placed on deeper involvement of civil society (e.g., NGOs, farmer and rural worker unions,
and other civil and church groups), particularly with respect to increasing the flow of information,
mobilizing the poorest groups and supporting training activities at the community level. Over and above
the technical support and training provided by Municipal Councils, IDENE and EMATER-MG,
Community Associations will be able to contract the technical assistance and training services that they
deemnecessary upto 8 percent of the value of the approved subproject.

A systemof checks and balances,clearly-defined andwell-disseminated, is essentialto ensure proper use
of funds and sound targeting of resources. Rules and procedures for such a system, including guidelines
for performance incentives and penalties, will be developed and detailed in the Project Operational
Manual. Performance incentives will include increasing Councils' indicative budget envelope; increasing
the number of investments or investment volume permitted to a community association; or incentives for
environmental or technologically innovative investments. Penalties would be attached to cases of mis-
management and diversion of funds and include removal from eligibility to participate, reduced
availability of funds, and/or judicial penalties where appropriate. In addition to penalties, Muncipal
Councils include participation of local civil society (e.g., NGOs, Rural Workers' Union, the Church),
representativesof public ministries and municipal officials, and Council meetings are publicly announced
and open to broad participation. Finally, the project will install computers inthe MCs, whose role, among
others, will be to publicize Council decisions on their own and the Technical Unit's webpage. The above
are designedto boost and institutionalizetransparency.


                                                       9

Productive subprojects should be subjected to rigorous selection, preparation, technical assistance and
supervision criteria. Under the new project, a `one-shot' matching grant will be provided to eligible
productive investments that (i)   provide services for a large number of community members; (ii)    whose
collective use i s regulated by strict operational guidelines (regulamento de uso); (iii)
                                                                                       for which operation
and maintenance is assured by charging adequate user fees to both association members and non-
members; and (iv) include technical assistance to ensure the sustainability of the investment. Revised
proceduresfor productive subprojects- none of which will be financed inenvironmentally sensitive areas
-willbeoutlinedintheProjectOperationalManual.

Broaden role of Municipal Councils in local planning, by promoting integration between local
governments and project Municipal Councils, and providing information to councils on other programs
and altemative sources of grant and credit financing. Over 30 percent of project Municipal Councils in
Northeast States with RPAPs already participate in some prioritization of other (non-project) resources.
Ifcarefully nurtured, notonly with therightmix of technical assistance, informationandfunding support,
but also by insistingthat clear and transparent rules continue to apply to the functioning of the Councils,
this democratic forum may well become one of the most valuable and durable institutions for rural
development inthe project area.

5. Alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection

Reversion to more traditional, centralized approach to implementation using line agencies. Experience
with integrated rural development projects in Northeast Brazil during the 1970s and 1980s conclusively
demonstrated that more centralized approaches to planning and implementation of infrastructure and
service delivery through public institutions are not effective in dispersed rural areas, due, inter alia, to
high overhead costs, coordination difficulties, subprojects that do not accurately respond to community
needs, and poor sustainability of investments. Instead, the proposed project builds on a successful CDD
model, broadly recognized for its effectiveness in delivering rural infrastructure and services under
Brazilian Northeast conditions (e.g., cost savings of 30-50 percent vis-&vis comparable works executed
by public agencies), its transparency in resource allocation, and strong performance in building social
capital inrural communities.

Channeling resources directly to municipal governments. Decentralization of finance and program
responsibilities to municipal governments, without also building capacity at the community level to
interact effectively with these governments, carries the risk of merely repeating difficulties associated
with centralized decision-making, albeit at a lower level. Inthe Northeast States where RPAP projects
were implemented, project MCs are making a major contribution to improving transparency and
participation in local development planning. The proposed project will build on this experience and
transfer it to Minas Gerais, helping to build Municipal Councils which can get involved in decision-
making over a broad range of poverty reduction programs, thereby helping indirectly to improve the
quality and effectiveness of local government.

Elimination of the PAC sub-component. Given the encouraging results of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P
subcomponents in RPAP projects in Northeast States, consideration was given to eliminating the PAC
option entirely from the proposed project. Municipal Councils, namely Municipal Councils for Rural
Development (CMDRs), are functioning in a majority of the rural municipalities of the project area, yet
would require some adjustment to conform to RPRPrules of representation (Le., two-thirds representation
from potential beneficiaries). In view of this, it was decided to retain sufficient resources in the PAC
subcomponent to allow for a transition period of creation and consolidation of project MCs in a large
number of rural municipalities and for eventual use by communities in municipalities where MCs cannot
be created.



                                                       10

Onlending to the states through a program loan to the Federal Government. Since initial and follow-up
RPRP projects are likely throughout the Northeast region, as well as in some states with a high incidence
of ruralpoverty elsewhere in Brazil, consideration was given to the alternative of a single large Bank loan
to the Federal Government, to be on-lent to the States. However, there are very positive benefits interms
of demonstratedcommitment and ownership when the states perceive that they are inthe project driver's
seat, reflected, inter alia, in generally timely and adequate counterpart fundingand maintenanceof strong
technical teams at the STU level. Compared with the less than satisfactory performance under earlier,
more centralized rural development programs, these benefits were judged to outweigh any apparent
savings in the time and costs of processing individual state loans. Indeed, implementation delays that
could result from more complex arrangements to transfer funds from federal to state level might offset
such savings and would certainly undermine the credibility of the project on the ground (where
communities now rely on timely decision-making and resourcetransfer).

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

Implementation period: Four years
Executing Entities:
Community Associations (CAS) are groups of rural citizens with a common interest, usually from the
same community, who organize into legally-constituted civil associations. They identify, prepare,
implement, supervise, operate and maintain their subprojects, assisted both by technical specialists whom
they contract directly and by technical assistance and training made available by Municipal Councils and
the State Technical Unit. Once subprojects are approved for financing, CAScan access a share of the
costs for design and implementation assistance.

Municipal Councils (MCs)include representativesof beneficiaries and civil society (at least two thirds of
membership), as well as local government (maximum one third of membership). The key organization
for targeting of benefits and allocating project resources, MCs also provide a critical link to local
government and have the potential to engage in other non-project activities. The MCs play a fundamental
role in mobilizing communities and promoting their participationin local decision making. They receive,
prioritize and approve subproject proposals from the CAS, within the ceiling of an indicative annual
resourcefigure received from the State Technical Unit, duringregularly scheduled and widely publicized
meetings that the public is encouragedto attend, and then submit investment plans to the State Technical
Unit.

The State Technical Unit. The Instituto de Desenvolvimento do Norte e Nordeste de Minus Gerais
(IDENE) will be the State Technical Unit of the project. IDENEwill be responsible for overall project
coordination with the support of its regional and local units and with increasing delegation of duties to
EMATER-MG. It will also gradually delegate supervision of community associations and subprojects to
the MCs and concentrate instead on oversight of the MCs themselves, as well as general project
coordination and promotion. The latter duties include continuous execution of information campaigns,
project reporting, impact evaluation, Management InformationSystemupdating, anddesign and provision
of tailored training modulesfor MCs and CASon key project issues.




                                                       11

Subproject Cycle:
    CAS determine their local investment priorities and prepare subproject proposals for investment
    financing;

    Subproject proposals from CAS are submitted to the respective project MCs, where they are
    prioritized and approved, based on indicative resourceenvelopes(FUMAC). This step does not occur
    for PAC, where CASsubmit subproject proposalsdirectly to the STUfor review.

    Subproject proposals from CAS(PAC) and MCs (FUMAC) are received and technically assessedby
    the regional offices of IDENE assisted by EMATER-MG. The regional offices send the assessed
    proposalsto IDENE'scentral office, which confirms compliance with subproject technical, social and
    environmental guidelines establishedinthe Operational Manual before releasing the funds.

    Subproject agreements (convdnios) are signed between the STU and CAS(in the case of PAC and
    FUMAC) and between the STU and the M C (inthe case of FUMAC-P). These agreements spell out
    the terms and conditions for the funding, execution, ownership, operation and maintenance of the
    approvedsubprojects.
    Resources for subproject implementation are then transferred directly from the project to the CA's
    bank account, except in the case of FUMAC-P, where funds are transferred to the Municipal Council;

    CASare responsible for contracting goods, works and technical assistance for subproject execution.
    CAS also bear responsibility for operation and maintenance of all investments, and may request
    technical assistance to develop operation and maintenanceprograms and techniques.

Project Oversight: The Minas Gerais State Secretariat of Planning and Management (SEPLAG-MG) i s
responsible for project oversight. The Secretary of SEPLAG-MGrepresents the Borrower vis-&vis the
Bank. The Secretary delegates day-to-day project execution to IDENE,the STU.

Project Coordination: The STU, supportedby its regional offices and by EMATER-MGwill coordinate
overall project activities, with the following specific duties: (a) review community subproject proposals
for compliance with project guidelines and eligibility criteria in the project Operational Manual; (b)
assess the degree of community participation in identifying, preparing and executing subprojects and
quality of technical assistance; (c) supervise the MCs to ensure they adequately manage quality of
subproject implementation and provide sufficient training support to communities; (d) implement
introductory training and technical assistance programs for all MCs and CASwith approved subprojects
(including training on subproject implementation, contracting, O&M and financial management); (e)
monitor and apply performance incentives to reward efficiency, transparency and inclusiveness of
community associations and municipal councils, and to penalize poor performance/misappropriation(e.g.
legal action for fund misallocation);     (f) monitor performance through the Management Information
System and periodically report progress; (g) prepare annual implementation and physical performance
reviews; (h) submit project POAsto the Bank for approval; (i)     account for all Project's transactions using
the accounting module of the MIS; (j)prepare the Project's Financial Statements in the agreed FMR
format; (k) prepare the SOEs through the MIS and submit to the Bank for reimbursement of eligible
expenditures; (1) supervise the financiaYphysica1 execution of the subprojects; (m) prepare TORS for
external independentauditors and coordinate their work to comply with the Bank's requirements; and (n)
coordinate the baseline study and the overall evaluation framework for the project. For the most common
types of subprojects, standardized designs and cost indicators would be made available by the STU to
ensure reasonable quality and costing for subproject implementation. Departures from these standard
designs would have to be fully justified in the subproject proposal, as would proposed investments which
fall outside the range of standardized costs. Finally, the STU will conduct a statewide information
campaign to continuously disseminate information about the project and its guidelines to all potential
beneficiary communities, thereby increasing awareness, transparency and participationin the program.


                                                      12

Project operational procedures: The project would be implemented according to detailed procedures
defined inits Operational Manual. This Manual is basedon lessons learned during the implementation of
the R-NRDP in the northern part of Minas Gerais, as well other projects under the Northeast Program.
A user-friendly synthesis of this document will be made available to MCs andCAS. Thefinal draft of the
project OperationalManual, which was reviewed by and is satisfactory to the Bank, would be adopted by
the State before the Federal GovernmentauthorizesLoan signing.

Accounting, Jinancial reporting and auditing arrangements: The financial management arrangements
have been reviewed by a Bank Financial Management Specialist during project preparation for
compliance with OP/BP 10.02. The Guidelines of Fiduciary Management for Community Driven
Development Projects (CDD Guidelines) were taken into consideration where applicable. Based on this
review, financial managementarrangements were considered satisfactory, indicating that it complies with
the Bank`s minimum financial management requirements.              Under the new project, the STU will
implement an action plan within the first three months of project implementation to allow reporting in
Financial Management Reporting (FMR) format and to adjust project accounting and reporting
procedures to fully comply with Bank requirements. According to arrangements for Bank-financed
projects in Brazil, the annual financial audit of the project accounts for the period January 1to December
3l o f the year will be carried out by an Independent Auditor acceptable to the Bank. The audit report will
be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 in the year following that for which the project accounts
are audited. The year end FMR will also serve as the Financial Statement of the Project, on which the
independent auditors will express their opinion. According to the new audit policy, the annual financial
audit will include a single opinion encompassingthe Project's accounts and the eligibility of expenditures
disbursed on the basis of SOEs, as well as on the Special Account, compliance with all financial
covenants. The auditors will prepare also a Management Letter on internal controls and
recommendations.

2. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

Analysis of implementation will depend on a database of subproject information from the project
Management Information System (MIS) operated and maintained by the STU. The MIS used under
RPRPin Bahia offers a good template, which has been adapted as a base for the Minas Gerais MIS.The
integrated database-which will monitor the entire subproject cycle -is organized inthree general levels:
(a) a subproject information module, which contains pertinent physical and financial information for each
subproject; (b) a financial management module, from which Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and
FinancialStatementsin FMR format are generated; and (c) a project management module, from which all
project reports are generated. The database will include community profiles, which will also be used to
evaluate project impact. The MIS will also monitor the increase in share of the rural poor population that
i s covered with basic services (e.g., water, electricity, road access, social services), and the share of the
rural poor that have received grant financing for productive subprojects and subsequently graduated to
commercial credit. The Institutional Development component will also be monitoredthrough tracking of
training events, workshops and progresstoward Annual Operating Plans (POAs) on the part of the project
Municipal Councils, via indicators (to be designed in conjunction with the State) which relate project
expenditures to efficiency gains in State administration. Finally, the MIS will allow real time data entry
and monitoring directly on-line from the field and regional offices. The STU will be responsible for
maintaining and regularly updatingthe MIS, including key project information (as agreed with the Bank).
Through periodic processing of the database information, combined with field visits and inputs from
project supervision reports, project contracted studies and audits, the STU would monitor project
characteristics and trends, identify implementation problems and accomplishments and undertake or
promote appropriate actions to improve project implementation. The Bank's Recife Office would also
monitor project performance indicators through the online MIS, and with inputs from the State, review
monthly disbursement summaries and supervise subproject implementation progress on a sample basis in
the field.

                                                       13

Finally, the project would implement evaluation studies to assess the impact of the subprojects and
provide feedback to improve project operations. These studies would include: (a) annual physical
performance reviews to assess the quality and sustainability of common types of financed subprojects,
including reviews of community-based procurement; (b) an evaluatiodimplementation review, carried
out at mid-term, to include beneficiary consultations to evaluate project performance and impact as
perceived by its beneficiaries; and (c) a rigorous and comprehensive impact evaluation. The impact
evaluation will use repeated surveys of project beneficiaries, non-beneficiary households, and
beneficiaries of similar projects with centralized delivery mechanisms to assess (a) poverty targeting of
beneficiaries relative to the income distribution of the population at large; (b) household welfare; (c)
social capital formation at the community level; (d) improvedgovernance at the municipal level; (e) cost-
effectiveness of infrastructure investments compared with traditional delivery mechanisms, and (f) cost-
benefit of productive investments. Inaddition, community leadersand municipalleaders will be surveyed
for the analysis of social capital and governance impacts. The first baseline field survey will be
conducted within six months of project effectiveness. A resurvey, to be contracted at the same time as the
baseline study will be conducted two years later, followed by another survey in the last year of the
project.

3. Sustainability

Institutional sustainability: The institutional analysis of (i) prior R-NRDPinMinas Gerais and (ii)
                                                             the                                          the
broader set of projects under the Northeast Program shows that, by assigning greater responsibility and
influence to local-level organizations and municipal governments, the proposed project can successfully
support decentralized resource allocation and the creation of social capital in rural Minas Gerais.
Emphasis will be placed in the new operation on linking the FUMAC councils to local municipal
planning and budgeting processes and programs, as well as alternative credit and financial services. The
aim of this effort will be the graduation of communities who have accumulated sufficient assets and
organizational capacity to gain access to mainstreamfinancing andother services.
Sustainability of STUi s not of concern because of the experiencethat its core technical team already has
inrural development activities andthe broad involvement of IDENEinother State and federal supported
programs, and because of the technical and administrative capacity and autonomy which it enjoys.

Financial sustainability: Financial analysis and field investigation confirm the sustainability of the
investment subprojects funded by the CDD mechanism. A sample of over 8,000 community subprojects
in those Northeast States which executed CDD projects as of 1995 (under the R-NRDP) and 1997/98
(under RPAP) was reviewed by one of the Program evaluations in 2000. Eighty-nine percent of these
subprojects were fully operational. More recent data from the field confirm these findings. Analysis of
productive subprojects revealed that cost recovery through user fees by beneficiary associations was
adequateto cover both operation and maintenanceand replacement of the original investment long before
the end of its useful economic life.

Physical sustainability: Beneficiary participationat all stages of the subproject cycle as well as significant
levels of community contribution help to ensure subprojects are maintained. Further, the democratic
process intrinsic to FUMAC ensures better selection and prioritization of subprojects by beneficiaries,
enhancing long term sustainability.        The proposed project requires the establishment of community
funded operation and maintenance plans - only subprojects that have realistic maintenance plans would
be approved and financed. Subproject maintenance would be monitored by Municipal Councils and STU
duringthe Project. Performance incentives for proper operation and maintenanceare included inproject
design.   According to the experience of the Northeast Program, the operation and maintenance of
infrastructure and social subprojects has been good, with community associations charging user fees
sufficient to operate and maintain the investments. The Bank preparation mission for the new operation
confirmed this finding. Field visits in Northern Minas were instructive because the R-NRDP, which
ended in 1996, was not followed by an RPAP, as happenedin other Northeastern states. The mission was

                                                       14

therefore able to examine the current situation of old investments, several years later - an ad hoc survey
of the "after-project'' situation. The mission observed- in five municipalities visited - was encouraging:
all the previously-financed infrastructure and social subprojects were working well, properly maintained
by the community association, and satisfying needs deeply felt by the communities.

4. Critical risksand possible controversial aspects

           Risk               Risk                             RiskMinimizationMeasure
                                                                                   ~~~~    ~~




                            Rating



    Erosionof local,           M          Continued demonstratedsuccess of the programreinforcing ownership of
    state and national                    program at all levels. Strengthen links between MCs and the local
   political support for                  government for mutual benefit.


    Politicization of          M          Membership of MCs with voting rights comprises at least two-thirds of
    MCs                                   beneficiary representativesand civil society. Use of IT for e-transparency.

    CASand MCs unable          M         Systematic training and TA to both CASand MCs targeting specific needs
    to implement and                     regarding subproject implementation, 0 & M. Standarddesigns and cost
    managegood quality                   criteria will be provided for most types of subprojects. Greater emphasis
    subprojects.                         on performance incentives and penalties. Technical and environmental
                                         assessmentand oversight for all subprojects.


To Components
    Inadequateandlor           M         Shared counterpart funding contributions between State, local government
    untimely flow of                     and beneficiaries. Continued efforts to reduce transaction costs affecting
    counterpart funds                    timely flow of funds.

    Communities                L         Active information campaign will be implemented at start of project.
    reluctant to adopt                   Widespread dissemination of project achievements to demonstrate the
    FUMAC options                        benefits of participation. STU efforts to establish additional MCs and to
                                         adjust existing Municipal Councils to RPRP rules.

     MCs not given clear       M          Strict Bank supervision of STU adherence to project rules concerning
     indicativebudgets                    indicative budgets.
     for decision making

     TA not available or       M          Fundsfor TA provided to MCs and CAS;they are informed of funding
     not used by MCs                       availability. EMATER-MG collaborates with IDENEinthe provision of
     and CAS                               TA to MCs and CAS.Appointment of salaried Technical Advisor to MC,
                                          paid by project funds, in municipalities where EMATER-MG is not
                                          present. STU will prepare and disseminate a list of reliable, experienced
                                           TA providers for CA and M C use. Seminar to encouragelocal service
                                          provider participation inthe project.

     Subprojects not           M           Subproject proposals must include an 0 & Mplan, to be monitored by
     properly maintained                   MCs. Performance penalties are included in project design to (i)  ensure
                                           M C proper annual checking of O&M compliance by CAS;and (ii)       ensure
                                           communities maintain investments satisfactorily.


5. Loanconditions and covenants

     Signing of a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, betweenthe State and IDENE.



                                                        15

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancial analyses

Specific investments under the proposedproject will be selected and carried out by communities during
implementation. It i s thus not possible to know ex ante precisely how resources will be allocated among
the types of subproject investmentsandtherefore to make aggregateprojections of cost-effectiveness,rate
of return and fiscal impact. However, many of the subprojects would, in general, be similar to those
financed under the previous project in Minas Gerais, as well as ongoing community-based rural
development projects in other Northeast States. Based on the accumulated experience from these
projects, the following aspects of subproject investments were assessed: (a) cost-effectiveness; (b)
financial viability of infrastructure and productive subprojects; and (c) the overall fiscal impact.

Cost-effectiveness: Severalaspects of project design help to ensure that subproject investmentsrepresent
the least-cost, best alternative. First,the demand-driven nature of subproject selection helps to ensure that
scarce resources flow where they are most needed and chosen subprojects are the best alternatives for
local communities. Second, the use of standard technical designs (projetos padrco) and cost parameters
for the most common types of subprojects - whether infrastructure, productive or social - ensures that
community associationsemploy least-costmodels for subproject implementation anddecreasesassociated
search and information costs. Third, the delegation of subproject implementation directly to the
community associations has proven to generate cost savings, when compared to similar quality works
implemented by public sector agencies. The contracting procedures in the Project Operational Manual
allow direct contracting by community associations, requiring, for example, that they solicit three bids for
the subproject. Based on the analysis of a random sample of subprojects (including ten categories which
collectively represent some 80 percent of the types of subprojects financed under the R-NRDP and
RPAP), it has beenfound that, for infrastructure and social subprojects, costs were 30-50percent less than
for projects of similar quality, implemented by the state. Recent case studies indicate that, while cost
effectiveness of both State and Federal governments has improved in the delivery of these types of
investments to the rural poor, community implementation i s still at least 30% cheaper for the most
common types of subprojects.

Ex-post internal rates of return have been estimated for the most common types of productive
subprojects. In the Northeast overall, these exceeded, on average, 30 percent. Analyses were made
assuming constant benefits over the subproject life cycle. In addition to these positive impacts, benefits
are largely concentrated in the subprojects' beneficiary communities. Sensitivity analysis showed that
these subprojects tend to be reasonably robust vis-a-vis decreases in output and prices and increases in
production costs.

Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main productive subprojects analyzed. Analysis of
these subprojects also suggests that investments are generally financially sustainable.             Although
beneficiary associationsdo receive a one-time matching grant for productive subprojects, the investments
tend to be sustainable because cost recovery through user fees by the average beneficiary association is
normally adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of original investments before the end of their
usefuleconomic life.

The project's direct fiscal impact depends on what the State would have done in the absence of the
project. If the State had attempted to provide the basic services through traditional delivery mechanisms,
the fiscal savings are direct and significant (see cost effectiveness discussion above). Evaluations indicate
that a significant fiscal contribution will also accrue from cost savings associatedwith the decreased need
for state and local governments to providecertain services, due to project investments. Provision of better
quality, more reliable water also has less quantifiable but nonetheless significant impacts on health,
reducing public health costs of Municipal Governments.             The project reduces the dependency of


                                                      16

municipalities on central and state government transfers by strengthening the capacity of local
governments and communities to take responsibility for local economic and social development.
Subproject O&M costs are typically paid by beneficiary communities, reducing the fiscal burden on
municipalities and states (with few exceptions, e.g., electricity and some types of water supply,
commonly maintained by state agencies and operatedin return for a user fee). Direct fiscal impacts are
likely to be small, since much of the incremental production of the subprojects is either self-consumed,
not liable to taxation, and/or circulates in informal markets where tax is rarely paid. However, indirect
impact could be significant, in that there can potentially be a significant increase in ICMS collected
within the poor municipalities in which the project operates.

2. Technical

The technical viability of the project has been demonstrated under the successful projects under the
Northeast Program to date.      The new RPRP in Minas Gerais will adopt similar institutional and
implementation arrangements. Investment cost estimates, physical contingencies, prices and estimates of
inputsand outputs are basedon actual historicaldata under these earlier projects (including the R-NRDP
in Minas Gerais) and thus are considered reliable. Technical standards of specific subprojects will be
ensured through standardized designs (includingengineering aspects, technical, financial and economic
feasibility, O&M, simple environmental guidelines and cost parameters) that cover approximately 80
percent of subproject types normally demanded by the communities. Field evidence demonstrates that
these simple, practical standards have enhanced subproject quality, sustainability and cost-effectiveness.
All subprojects will be screened by qualified staff in the STU and communities can contract technical
assistance (up to 8 percent of subproject value) to assist in design and implementation of subprojects.
Training programs are also being offered to develop community capacity to prepare, implement, operate
and maintain projects, as well as acquaint them with existing environmental regulations at the state and
federal level. During project preparation Bank specialists reviewed the quality and sustainability of a
variety of community subprojects, includingwater, mechanization, housing and power subprojects funded
by R-NRDP, andfound themto be technically sound and sustainable.

3. Fiduciary

The financial management arrangements to be used by the project were reviewed by a Bank Financial
Management Specialist during project preparation for compliance with OP/BP 10.02. Based on this
review, the Project has satisfactory financial management arrangements in place to adequately monitor,
control, account and report on Project's transactions.

Duringthe project preparation, the financial management module of the iWIS was reviewed. The MIS
will be the overall managementsystem for monitoring and controlling project execution and for financial
management. It includes accounting, funds flow and control, payments, reporting, subprojectsmonitoring,
special account, disbursements, SOE, and general administration of the STU. The MIS was adaptedfrom
The Bahia State Company for Development and Regional Action (CAR), the STU of the RPRP in that
State, where it was also consideredas satisfactory to monitor andreport about the Project.

A procurement capacity assessment of the STU was conducted by the Project Team's Procurement
Specialist and was cleared by the Regional Procurement Advisor's Office           (RPA). The "Overall
Procurement Risk" was assessed as "LOW'.            Procurement responsibilities will be carried out by
IDENE's procurement staff that have performed successfully these functions during a previous similar
loan and are well-versed in Bank procurement policies and procedures. With the exception of some
technical assistance for the beneficiaries which will be procured by the STU, it is anticipated that all
procurement financed by the Project will be carried out by the grants beneficiary associations. However,
IDEIW will procure goods and works on an exceptional basis on behalf of the beneficiaries which are
deemed not to have sufficient capacity. It i s anticipated that these procurement activities carried out by


                                                     17

the STU, if any, will be limited. The beneficiaries' administrative capacity will be demonstrated in the
subproject proposals and evaluated by the Implementing Agency. In addition, IDENE will exercise
overall quality control of procurementfinanced by the subprojects.

4. Social

Rural poverty in Minas Gerais i s concentrated in the regions known as Norte de Minas, Vale do
Jequitinhonha and Vale do Mucuri, located in the northern half of the State. Statewide, some 1.1 million
households earn less than US$2.5 per day. Nearly 32 percent of rural households in Minas Gerais lack
piped water supply, about 25 percent are without sanitation services, and 20 percent without electricity,
compared, respectively, with 4,2 and 1percent for urbanMinas Gerais, and 7,3 and0.9 percent for urban
Brazil as a whole. GDP per capita in the project area i s less than half that of Minas Gerais as a whole,
infant mortality is 29 per cent above the average level for the State, and the percentage of population
without formal education i s 86 percent above the corresponding statewide figure.

The proposed project seeks to improve the quality of life of the target population through small-scale
social and economic infrastructure subproject investments, using a CDD approach, increasing the social
capital of the rural communities participating in the project by strengthening community associations and
municipal councils. Under the project's participatory approach, the wide inclusion of all potential
beneficiaries, including women and minorities, would be assured through a state-wide information
campaign designed to create awareness regarding the project's objective, operating guidelines and how to
access project benefits. Identification and implementation of specific subprojects would occur through
demand-driven mechanisms at the community level.

Communities are creating the demandfor the new project, and are dictatingthe types of subprojects to be
financed, demonstrating their high level of satisfaction with CDD delivery mechanisms. Detailed
evaluations reinforce these findings (see Annex 9). Various evaluations cite the strong demand for
subproject investments among the potential beneficiary population.            High levels of beneficiary
satisfaction, as well as strong economic impact of local infrastructure investments, were recorded.

Apart from meeting basic community investment needs, a major achievementof the NortheastProgramto
date has been to foster the creation of social capital within rural municipalities and their communities.
This accumulation of social capital has increasedwith the introductionof the more decentralizedFUMAC
and FUMAC-P mechanisms. This i s because the MCs have provided a new, representative and
transparent forum for local government and community representatives to discuss and prioritize
investment proposals. By providing communities the opportunity to address their needs through a
genuinely participatory process of decision making and oversight, the MCs have succeeded in: (i)
reducing clientelism and political interference; (ii) strengthening the capacity of both communities and
municipal governments to select, prioritize and implement investment decisions; (iii)creating
partnerships between communities, MCs and municipal governments and more generally, increased the
community voice in the use of public resources; and (iv) fostering citizenship through increased
awareness of social responsibilities of citizens, their representativesand public authorities in community
and public matters.

All subprojects are identified, prepared, implemented (including procurementkontracting of works),
supervised, operated and maintained by community associations.            Funds are directly disbursed to
community associations, which also contribute up to 10percent of subproject costs. Intermediary NGOs,
private firms and other civil groups may provide technical assistance, facilitate information dissemination
to community associations and assist in mobilization and organization of communities.                Local
government participates in municipal council meetings, and directly facilitates the work of these councils.
The STU offers capacity-building and training to community associations and municipal councils to



                                                      18

foster and enhance social capital. STU also forges links with a cadre of Federal, State and Municipal
agenciesto leverage mobilization, training and specializedexpertise inproject activities.

Experience under the previous project shows that the mechanisms to be used in the proposed project
(particularly FUMAC and FUMAC-P) have promoted inclusion of all social groups. Under the RPAP,
MCs and CAShad a strong representationof women and minority groups. Inthe proposed project, the
policies of open access to program benefits, and widely dispersed information regarding program rules
(using the information campaign) will continue to ensure equitable treatment of, and access for, all
potential beneficiaries.

To further increase project impact, the following changes are being implemented to continue to promote
and strengthentransparency and social inclusion:

    0   higher levels of funding for the poorest communities as determined by the UnitedNations HDI;
    0    greater emphasis on FUMAC and FUMAC-P, and minimizationof PAC;
    0    training of MCs in targeting, and introductionof performance incentives for reaching the poorest;
         and
    0    promote sustainability by developing a strategy for linking communities to local governments,
         alternative funding from financial institutions andto other programs

The project Management Information System (MIS) will monitor subproject implementation, as well as
number and location of beneficiaries. The MIS will track community mobilization activities, training
courses offered for FUMAC and FUMAC-P councils, as well as periodic supervision of subprojects in
situ. Annual physical performance reviews over the course of the project will assess, inter alia, the
participatory approach pursued under the project, making recommendations where needed. Also, the
overall project impact evaluation will serve to assess the poverty targeting of beneficiaries under the
project, household welfare and social capital formation, at boththe community and municipallevel.

5. Environment

Experience under the previous Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Project in Minas Gerais was
reviewed during project preparation and confirmedthat few subproject investments have the potential for
adverse environmental impact. An Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet was prepared for the project and
reviewed by the LCSES Quality Assurance Team. Environmental Checklists -incorporated into the
Project Operational Manual under the RPAP in other Northeast states - have been adapted and updated
for the proposed project, for use in subproject preparation by potential beneficiary associations. These
checklists would be completed by community associations to identify potentially adverse environmental
impacts from subproject investments and methodsto mitigate these impacts.

The proposed project i s a Category B, indicating that its potential environmental impact on human
populations and ecologically important areas i s considered moderate/modest. Neither the State, nor the
Bank, through the Project, will approve subprojects which cause degradation to essentialnatural habitats.
No subproject agreement will be signed or funds transferred until the environmental viability of the
subproject i s determined. The subproject agreements eventually signed between IDENE! and community
associations will contain environmental compliance clauses.

The following main features regarding the environment are included in the project design: (i)
environmental screening, usinga strengthenedEnvironmentalChecklist, for each subproject proposal; (ii)
a negative list, specifying those subprojects which are ineligible for financing under the project; (iii)
technical capacity at the state level, by contracting of an environmental specialist by the STU; and (iv)
environmental education and awareness, conducted through the statewide information campaign, and
direct training of municipal councils and community associations, with guidance from the in-house


                                                       19

environmental specialist. Specifically, the environmental specialist would serve as a bridge between the
STU and the state-level environmental agencies, assess subproject proposals and recommend mitigation
measures, and supervise environmental awareness trainingfor both Municipal Councils and Community
Associations.

Key stakeholders consulted on environmental aspects during the preparation of the include (i)       potential
project beneficiaries, who inhabit rural areas of the state, (ii)
                                                               representatives of civil society-at-large and
(iii) sectoragencieschargedwithprojectoversightandcoordination.Communityassociationsand
    public
existing Municipal Councils - both of which encompass broad representationof interested stakeholders -
and are the primary instruments for subproject prioritization and subsequent execution. Environmental
screening i s conducted directly by the project beneficiaries (Le., community associations), via the
completion of the environmental checklist for each subproject proposal. Data from the checklist will be
reviewed by the in-house environmental specialist to monitor compliance with project guidelines set forth
inthe Operational Manual.

An information campaign (satisfactory to the Bank) will orient potential beneficiaries on the
implementation arrangements under the project, including the due diligence required of the community
associations in addressingenvironmental guidelines at the state and federal level. The project mid-term
review will further assess the usefulness of the environmental checklist, includingon-site inspection of
subprojects, as well as the overall environmental screening and subproject supervision, and provide
recommendationsas necessary for improving monitoring of such activities.

6. Safeguard policies

 Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                 Yes                No
 Environmental Assessment(OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                     [XI                 [ I
 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                               [ I                [XI
 Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                   [ I                [XI
 Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.1 1)                      [I                [XI
 Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                         [I                [XI
 Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                        [ I               [XI
 Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                          [I                [XI
 Safety of Dams (OP/BP4.37)                                                   [ I               [XI
 Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                                    [I                [XI
 Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                          11                1x1


7. Policyexceptionsand readiness

There are no policy exceptions and the project is ready for implementation.




                                                    20

                                                                 BRAZIL
                                 Rural Poverty ReductionProject Minas Gerais          -
                                          Annex 1:DetailedProject Description



Project Component 1               -Community             Subprojects (US$40.7 million):

The project would provide matching grants directly to rural community associations to finance priority,
small-scale investments identified by community groups (up to US$50,000 each).                                         It is expected that
approximately 1,860 subprojects will be financed under this component. This will comprise a broad
range of subproject investments including infrastructure (e.g., rural electrification, local road
improvements and water supply), social investments (e.g., health-related house improvement, day care
centers, school or health post rehabilitation) and productive subprojects (such as small-scale community
agro-processing, communal tractors and minor irrigation schemes).                                      Subproject selection shall be
demand-driven, however an indicative breakdown of investment types, based on perceived community
demand suggests approximately 60 percent of financing shall be used for infrastructure, 25 percent for
social activities, and 15 percentfor productive investments.

Subproject proposals for all forms of investment would observe standard procedures, documentation and
technical, economic, environmental and sustainability criteria to be set forth in a detailed Project
Operational Manual. A short negative list' of subproject types ineligible for financing will be enforced,
with particular emphasis on the application of rigorous eligibility criteria for productive subprojects to
ensure proper targeting, and financial sustainability of this form of investment*, also to be included in the
Project Operational Manual

The identification, preparation and implementation of all subprojects financed under the project will be
the responsibility of the beneficiary rural communities.                               Three different delivery mechanisms -
incorporating increasing degrees of decentralization - distinguish how the subprojects are approved and
financed:


0   State Community Schemes (PAC).                         Under the PAC subprogram, rural communities submit their
    investment proposals directly to the State Technical Unit (STU), which screens and approves them
    and releases funds to the beneficiary associations. Whereas this was the predominant arrangement
    under the earlier R-NRDP projects, it receded in importance in the States which had RPAP projects,
    as decentralization from the state to local levels progressed. At the start of the RPAP projects in the
    Northeast States, it was expected that about one-third of community proposals would be processed
    under the PAC, but the actual share decreased steadily during implementation, in favor of the other
    two modalities described below. Under the proposed new RPRP project for Minas Gerais, the PAC
    will be used to respond to demands from communities in municipalities where a Municipal Council
    has not yet been created. It will also be retained as an option to which communities may occasionally
    resort in cases where Municipal Councils are not functioning properly, but it i s expected to account
    for no more than 23 percent of all subprojects (or US$9.2 million). The percentage of RPRP
    investment resources expected to be channeled through the PAC subprogram i s larger in Minas
    Gerais than in other Northeast States, where it i s 5--10 percent. The reason is that there are



  Those subprojectsineligible for funding includeproduction of alcohol, tobacco and drugs, churches, and facilities for political activities.
  Productive subprojects, as with infrastructure and social subprojects, must be property of the associationas a whole and not of select members.
Foreachtype of productive subproject, a set of operational guidelines (regitlumentode uso),developedby the STU, would be providedto the
associationfor adoption. Inaddition, each subproject proposal must identify the source of technical assistancefor subproject implementation and
subsequent operation.


                                                                        21

    proportionally many more rural municipalities with Municipal Councils in operation in these States
    than inMinas Gerais where there was no RPAP and the project area has beenextended.

    Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC). Under this subprogram, decision-making on investment
    proposals is delegated by the State to project Municipal Councils, composed of community members
    and representativesof civil society and municipal authorities. At least two thirds of Council voting
    members are potential project beneficiaries and representatives of civil society. The Municipal
    Councils discuss, seek to build consensus on priorities and approve community proposals, in the
    context of an indicative annual budget amount determined by the state.              After the Councils'
    recommendations are reviewed by the STUfor consistency with guidelines in the project Operational
    Manual, funds are disbursed directly to the community associations. This became the preferred and
    hence the dominant subprogramunder the RPRP in the Northeast States. Under the proposedRPRP
    for Minas Gerais this subprogram will account for about 71 percent (US$29.1 million) of total
    community subproject cost.
    Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P). The FUMAC-P i s a more decentralized variant of
    FUMAC piloted under the RPAP with high-performing Municipal Councils, and will be tested in the
    Minas Gerais RPRP. The STU establishes an annual budget envelope, according to a distribution
    formula based on clear and measurable criteria (rural population, poverty levels and previous year's
    performance). Based on this budget, Municipal Councils submit an Annual Operating Plan (Plano
    OperativoAnual) for STUreview. Upon approval, funds are transferred to the Council, which is then
    responsible for managing their distribution to community associations and assisting them with
    implementation of subprojects. As a pilot approach the FUMAC-P will also have the following
    characteristics: (i)it will discuss and transfer to the appropriate places community demands not
    covered by the RPRP whose objectives are complementary to those of the project; (ii)         participating
    municipalities will be encouragedto contribute complementary funds to those supplied by the project;
    (iii) representatives from municipal programs or councils operating in rural areas in the fields of
    health, education, production and others will be encouraged to participate in the FUMAC-P Council;
    (iv) participating municipalities, in partnership with the project, will assist in the creation of a small
    technical unit which will provide operational support to the FUMAC-PCouncil. It is expected that
    under the new RPRP project, 6 percent of total component costs (US$2.4 million) would be used
    under the FUMAC-P subprogram inat leastten municipalities.


Promotion. Each subcomponent described above (i.e., PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P) represents a
greater degree of decentralization of decision-making and resource allocation responsibilities. As groups
of communities become more organized they are `promoted' from PAC to FUMAC to FUMAC-P,
gradually gaining greater control over investment planning that goes beyond their specific community
subproject.     Communities with limited capacity, and/or those communities that reside within
municipalities which have not yet formed a M C or that lack the capacity or political will to adopt
FUMAC approach, may choose to enter the program through PAC. Other communities/ municipalities
that are better organized, and/or have had experience with PAC, and are receptive to participatory
decision-making processes, enter FUMAC. A Municipal Council is formed and resource allocation
decisions start beingmade at the local level. This institutionalizationof the participatory processhas been
shown to protect MCs from political fluctuation, and eventually leads to stronger partnerships between
communities, their Municipal Councils and their respective municipal governments in determining the
use of public resources.

Given the overwhelmingly positive response to FUMAC in other Northeast States that had RPAPs, it is
expected that the need for the PAC subcomponent would diminish over the course of project
implementation, with the FUMAC subcomponents gradually expanding. The existence of PAC is to
facilitate subprojects during the beginning of the project while MCs are being created in the many
municipalities that do not have one, as well as to facilitate participation in the project of those


                                                     22

communities within weaker municipalities which fail to adopt the FUMAC approach. Flexibility would
be built into the project to reallocate funds among subprograms to accommodate the expansion of
FUMAC and FUMAC-P as implementation proceeds. The PAC scheme, however, is expected to assist
towards decentralization and the creation of social capital. To achieve this, the STU will enroll the
support of community associations who have benefited from PAC subprojects to help other communities
to organize their own associations and to assist in the process of forming a Municipal Council in the
municipality. The mechanics of this process will be detailed inthe project Operational Manual.

Targeting. The proposed project is targeted to the poorest communities in rural Minas Gerais. The
project area includes 188 of the total 853 municipalities statewide. Some municipalities in the latter two
regions, which are contiguous to Norte de Minus, bordering with its easternpart, were included in the R-
NRDP as a pilot experiment duringthe last year of the project. These regions have now beenincluded in
the RPRP because of the incidence of rural poverty, which i s similar to that of Norte de Minus and higher
than in other regions of the State. All municipalities in these three regions are included in the targeted
area. The funds for the Community Subprojects component will be allocated among municipalities in
proportion to their rural population (including the population in municipal towns of less than 7,500
inhabitants, which are also part of the target group). According to this, an estimate of the order of
US$19.3 million of the Community SubprojectsComponent will be allocated to Norte de Minus, US$12.0
million to Vale do Jequitinhonha, US$7.6 million to Vale do Mucuri and US$1.8 million to the Central
region. Within each region, funds from the Communities Subprojects component will be allocated to the
municipalities according to (a) the size of their rural population, and (b) their level of need shown by the
index. The Operational Manual will indicate operational details of these allocation criteria.

At municipal level, Municipal Councils will be responsible of community targeting. This will be
supported in various ways: (1) giving MCs an annual budget figure for the resources available to finance
subprojects in their respective municipalities; (2) asking MCs to carry out poverty ranking exercises of
the communities based on assessedneeds and an inventory of community assets, and providingthem with
technical assistance to do so; (3) widely disseminating the RPRP program and activities, particularly
among the poorest communities so as to promote their presentation of subproject ideas and their
participation in Council meetings; and (4) direct advocacy, encouraging M C to prioritize poor
communities. The effectiveness of this methodology will be assured by the establishment of clear and
transparent rules and procedures for the Councils' functioning. Increased decentralization of subproject
selection through the FUMAC subprogram i s expected to further strengthen the project's capacity to
reach the neediest communities in the project area. Continual implementation and revision of the
information campaign for the project will also be used to expand opportunities for participation of the
poorest communities in the target area. This information on project eligibility and procedures will be
targetedto potential beneficiary communities to create a level playing field for accessto project funds and
to stimulate demand from potential beneficiaries across the state. Some communities already have
significant levels of organization, either traditionally or from previous development projects in the area,
and are poised to benefit immediately from the project. However, for those less organized communities,
the project, through its institutional development component, would actively extend mobilization
assistance through the services of NGOs or accredited agents who know the communities well and can
serve as catalysts for organization (refer component B described below).

In order to be eligible to receive funding under the project - in compliance with Brazilian Law -
beneficiaries must form legally-constituted civil associations (or              `community     associations').
Disbursementsto the beneficiary associationswould occur through agreements (convdnios) with the STU
and/or project Municipal Councils, as per model agreements developed under RPAP. These agreements
will be included in the Operational Manual for the new project. Beneficiary associations will be required
to contribute either in cash, kind or labor, an amount of not less than 10 percent of the subproject cost,
and will be responsible for the operation and maintenance (O&M) of the investments. The minimum



                                                      23

level of contributions expected from the beneficiaries, municipalities and the State Government is
specified in a cost-sharingmatrix detailed in the Project Operational Manual.

Project Component2 Institutional Development(US$3.3 million):
                         -

The Institutional Development component will finance technical assistance and training, sufficient for
each group participating in project implementation to acquire the capabilities needed to effectively carry
out its responsibilities. This component will also finance the contracting of consultants and other entities
to assist the STU in monitoring, supervision and evaluation tasks, and will provide technical assistance
services to support State level modernization and reform. This project component will also support
piloting of the use of information technology by community associations and MCs to increase
transparency by making available, in real time, information about the program itself, as well as using the
Internet to connect communities directly to markets, both inBrazil and internationally.

Using the demand-driven implementation mechanisms described in Component A, the project
consolidates participatory institutions and processes at the municipal and community levels. In this
process, well-organized communities with sound, carefully preparedproposalsare provided with financial
supportfor investments.

To encouragethis process andreinforce the decentralized implementation framework, technical assistance
and training will be provided for community associations, Municipal Councils, and the STU, as well as
other entities participating in the project. Types of training and assistance will include support to
communities in organization, subproject preparation and execution, as well as operation and maintenance
techniques. Assistance will be provided to MCs to improve decision-making capacities, and to create
capacity for investment planning and financial administration. At the STU level training will also be
provided to enhance project coordination and supervision skills. Also, because the fiscal situation of the
State affects both project implementation and state counterpart funding, technical assistance will be
provided at the state level to analyze issues surrounding the reform of the State and to identify measures
to improve the State's capacity to address the inherent causes of its fiscal situation. The instruments for
achieving these various forms of capacity building will include a combination of workshops, technical
exchanges, on-site training, and more traditional technical assistance, drawing upon local expertise within
the state - technical consultants, universities, NGOs, and other local service providers-- as well as national
and international technical assistance agencies. To this effect, the component would finance consultant
services, training materials and courses, seminars, workshops, related studies and related operational
costs.

The implementation of the institutional development component would be decentralized, and the
provision of and accountability for technical assistance and training would occur increasingly at the local
level. In particular, project Municipal Councils will play a critical role in overseeing the capacity-
building activities for community associations in their jurisdictions.           Technical assistance will
increasingly be provided by MCs, and a local technical advisor will be competitively recruited for this
purpose under the new project in those municipalities where EMATER-MG does not have enough
installed capacity. Municipal Councils, provided with model terms of reference prepared by the STU,
will contract technical assistance based on programs agreed with the STU, and then releasefunds for that
purpose. Institutionaldevelopment activities can be broadly categorizedinto five areas:

a) mobilization assistance and training for participating communities. Assistance would be organized
    and contracted by the STU and Municipal councils, to support the organization and strengthening of
    community associations, identification of viable investments, subproject preparation, and operation
    and maintenanceof investments;

b) capacity-building programs for Community Associations and Municipal Councils.            Organized by the
    STU, these programswill includeintensivetraining on the role of MunicipalCouncils, explanation of


                                                     24

    Operational Manual guidelines, techniques for subproject evaluation and supervision, as well as
    related topics such as environmental assessment of subprojects, participatory planning and financial
    management.      Under the new project all MCs and community associations, with approved
    subprojects, will be required to participate in mandatory `introductory training' covering the above-
    mentioned topics. In addition, all MCs will be gradually equipped with computers to assist them in
    performingtheir expanding functions;
    specialized skills training for all participating entities. Based on needs, local providers would be
    contracted by the STU, Municipal Councils and groups of community associations to provide expert
    advice and "on-the-job training", in areas such as investment-related technical support, the use of
    standarddesigns, monitoring techniques, and financial management;
    technical assistancefor State reform. SEPLAG-MG will have access, through the STU, to technical
    assistance funds in support of the implementation of the State's modernization reforms, particularly in
    promoting the integration of the State's policy for poverty reduction and strengthening the its
    management capacity to better monitor the impact of its public expenditures to reduce poverty in the
    rural space; and
    workshops and seminars for the Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations, to exchange
    experience under the project. These "best practice" exchanges may also extend to seminars to forge
    links between all STUs of the ten Northeastern states, and to disseminate successful experiences
    across states.


Project Component3 Administration, MonitoringandEvaluation(US$1.4 million):
                        -
This component would support overall project coordination and supervision and would help to strengthen
the effectiveness and quality of project operations. It would finance the incremental operating costs of the
STU(excluding salaries), which is responsible for overallcoordination of project activities in partnership
with community associations and with FUMAC municipal councils. As part of its duties, the STU will
conduct an ongoing statewide information campaign to continuously disseminate information about the
project and its guidelines to all potential beneficiary communities, thereby increasing awareness,
transparency and participation in the program. This campaign will be organized in two phases: the first
will take place during the launching of the project and will be oriented to disseminating widely its
objectives and characteristics inthe project area, while the second will take place duringthe entire the life
of the RPRPand will be oriented to promoting as muchimplementation transparence as possible, through
the regular dissemination of information on all relevant activities and aspects of the project. For this
campaign, the project would finance: (a) local technical assistance in the design and development of the
campaign; and (b) the implementation costs, including appropriate, simplified posters, leaflets, radio spots
and videos.

Given the importance of supervision to the overall impact of the program, project supervision will be
intensified under the project and half of its cost will be financed under this component. Project
supervision will provide the STU with the necessary information on project performance to make
managerial decisions, such as the provision of technical assistance or training and the correction of
departures from project guidelines.     Inline with the increasing emphasis on decentralization under the
new project, the responsibilities for the supervision of operations in each region will be deconcentratedto
the regional offices of IDENE.At the local level, supervision will be increasingly devolved to MCs with
the STU focusing on supervision of the MCs, `spot-checks' of community associations to verify
performance, and overall project coordination. Each subproject will be supervised at least three times: (i)
after its approval and before the disbursement of funds, in which occasion the obligations of the
incumbent community association will be clearly established; (ii)    mid-way during the implementation of
the subproject; and (iii)at the end of the construction of the works, inthe case of infrastructures, when the
finalization of the works will be certified. Supervision activities to be financed under the project include


                                                     25

operational expenses for field visits and subcontracted services from NGOs and other participating
agencies.

This component would also finance the establishment of a monitoring system, including the maintenance
and use of a Management Information System (MIS). To function as an efficient management tool, the
project MIS, will be more user-friendly and performance-oriented. It would allow regional offices to
enter data and monitor on-line real time flow of subprojects. The MIS would be expandedto contain key
technical, financial and socio-economic information on subprojects (planned and actual), as well as cost
and other physical indicators, and quantitative variables for impact monitoring. MIS-generated project
reports, including monthly disbursement reports and semi-annual progress reports, would facilitate
subproject tracking and generate appropriate feedback on project performance. Project performance and
impact indicators would be regularly updatedto take stock of project implementation and will be included
in the semi-annual progress reports. A Project Implementation Plan and a matrix of Project Performance
Indicators were finalized and agreedduring project preparation. This component would finance operating
costs for monitoring activities, as well as finance experts in information technology and project
management: (a) to improve the MIS; and (b) to collect and analyze data on cost indicators and physical
parameters from the most frequently approved types of subprojects, so as to calculate a range of values
for these indicators and to adjust subproject eligibility criteria accordingly. These adjustments will be
incorporated into the Project Operational Manual.

Finally, the project would finance consultant services to develop and implement studies to evaluate the
impact of the subprojects and provide feedback to improve project operations, includingthe following:
(a) annual physical performance reviews, to assess the quality and sustainability of common types of
subprojects financed by the project, including reviews of community-based procurement; (b) an
implementation review, carried out at the mid-term, to include beneficiary consultations so as to generate
an evaluation of project performance and impact as perceived by the ultimate beneficiaries; and (c) a
comprehensive impact evaluation, which would include a baseline evaluation to establish indicators of
socio-economic impact and a follow-on final evaluation of the project using these indicators to measure
(i) aggregate project impact on social indicators; and (ii) costhenefit of demand driven vs conventional
approaches to rural development. Duringproject preparation, an execution chronogram was agreed.

Project Coordination: IDENEwill be responsible for overall project coordination with the support of
its regional and local units and with increasing delegation of duties to EMATER-MG. It will also
gradually delegate supervision of community associations and subprojects to the MCs and concentrate
instead on oversight of the MCs themselves, as well as general project coordination and promotion. The
latter duties include continuous execution of information campaigns, project reporting, impact evaluation,
Management Information System updating, and design and provision of tailored training modules for
MCs and CASon key project issues. It will have the following specific duties: (a) review community
subproject proposals for compliance with project guidelines and eligibility criteria in the project
Operational Manual; (b) assess the degree of community participation in identifying, preparing and
executing subprojects and quality of technical assistance; (c) supervisethe MCs to ensure they adequately
manage quality of subproject implementation and provide sufficient training support to communities; (d)
implement introductory training and technical assistance programs for all MCs and CASwith approved
subprojects (including training on subproject implementation, contracting, O&M and financial
management); (e) monitor and apply performance incentives to reward efficiency, transparency and
inclusiveness of community         associations and municipal councils,         and to penalize poor
performancehisappropriation (e.g. legal action for fundmisallocation); (f) monitor performance through
the ManagementInformation System and periodically report progress; (g) prepare annual implementation
and physical performance reviews; (h) submit project POAs to the Bank for approval; (i)     account for all
Project's transactions using the accounting module of the MIS; 0) prepare the Project's Financial
Statements in the agreed FMR format; (k) prepare the SOEs through the MIS and submit to the Bank for
reimbursement of eligible expenditures; (1) supervise the financiallphysical execution of the subprojects;


                                                    26

(m) prepare TORSfor external independent auditors and coordinate their work to comply timely with the
Bank's requirements; and (n) the completion of the baseline study and the overall evaluation framework
for the project.Using standardized cost indicators, reasonable costing for subproject implementation
would be ensured. Departures from standard designs would have to be fully justified in the subproject
proposal, as would proposedinvestmentswhich fall outside the range of standardizedcosts.

Project Oversight: The Minas Gerais Secretariat of Planning and Management (SEPLAG-MG) is
responsible for project oversight. The Secretary of SEPLAG-MG represents the Borrower vis-&vis the
Bank. The Secretary delegates day-to-day project execution to DENE,the STU. IDENEwill implement
the project in partnership with EMATER-MG,Community Associations and Municipal Councils. It will
receive and approve the Annual Operating Plans for the project Municipal Councils, and will receive and
approve community subproject proposalsin the case of PAC: IDENEwill be responsible for day-to-day
project oversight with respect to monitoring, supervision of municipal councils, evaluation and required
reportingunder the project.

Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Analysis of implementation will depend on a database of
subproject information from the project Management InformationSystem (MIS) operatedand maintained
by the STU. The MIS usedby the Bahia State Rural Poverty Reduction Project offers a good template,
and has been adaptedfor use under the proposed project inMinas Gerais. The integrated database- which
will monitor the entire subproject cycle - i s organized in three general levels:          (a) a subproject
information module, which contains pertinent physical and financial information for each subproject; (b)
a financial managementmodule to monitor financial execution of the subprojects and other components
of the Project and from which the FinancialStatements inFh4R format and the Statementsof Expenditure
(SOEs) will be generated; and (b) a project management module, from which all project reports are
generated. The database will include community profiles, which will also be used to evaluate project
impact. The MIS will also monitor the increase in share of the rural poor population that is covered with
basic services (e.g., water, electricity, road access, social services), and the share of the rural poor that
have received grant financing for productive subprojects and subsequently graduated to commercial
credit. Finally, the MIS will allow real time data entry and monitoring directly on-line from the field and
regionaloffices. The STUwill be responsible for maintainingand regularly updating the MIS, including
key project information (as agreed with the Bank).          Through periodic processing of the database
information, combined with field visits and inputs from project supervision reports, project contracted
studies and audits, the STU would monitor project characteristics and trends, identify implementation
problems and accomplishments and undertake or promote appropriate actions to improve project
implementation. The Bank's Recife Office would also monitor project performance indicators through
the online MIS, and with inputs from the State, review monthly disbursement summaries and supervise
subproject implementation progresson a sample basis inthe field.

Accounting, financial reportingand auditing arrangements: The Special Account will be established
in a commercial bank, and the project accounts will be maintained and audited annually in accordance
with the audit TORS. According to arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Brazil, the annual audit of
the project accounts for the periodJanuary 1to December 31 of the year (or, inthe first year of operation,
from the date of start of the project to December 31 of that year) will be carried out by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report will be submittedto the Bank no later than June 30" in
the year following the year for which the projects accounts are audited. The Auditor's TOR will be based
on current audit policies and practices for World Bank financed activities. The audit reports will express a
single opinion on the Project's accounts, on the Special Account and on the SOE's Statement including
comments as necessary on the methodology employed inthe compilation of the statementsof expenditure
(SOEs), their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the
project's legal agreements and standards of record keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing.,
With respect to withdrawals on the basis of SOEs, such audits would include a review of the SOEs,



                                                      27

together with the procedures involved in their preparation, and of the supporting documentation to check
uponthe eligibility of all expendituressubmitted for financing.

Project Reporting: Periodic processing of the database information will permit the monitoring of the
characteristics and evolution of project implementation. The STU will be responsible for reporting on the
project performance indicators.

  Annual Physical Petformanee Reviews: The Annual physicalperformance review would be conducted
   on a sample of community subproject beneficiary communities. Variables assessedduringthe Review
   would include: quality of investments, as assessedby beneficiaries and qualified professionals, cost-
   effectiveness, as compared with similar public sector investments, and procurement, such as local
   contracting of goods and services.

   Implementation Review: The Implementation Review would be held annually, together with the
   Physical performance review. The Review would take place in advance of the approval of next year's.
   Annual Operating Plan. The range of studies to be preparedfor each of these reviews would be agreed
   upon on a rolling basis, at appraisal for the first review, and at each annual implementation review for
   the subsequent implementation review.




                                                       28

                                                     BRAZIL
                            RuralPoverty ReductionProject MinasGerais  -
         Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies



      Sector Issue                             Project'                        Latest Supervision (ISR) Rating
Ongoing Proiects                                                                     PDO                -
                                                                                                        IP
Community-Driven             RPAPParaiba(Ln.4251-BR)                                    S               S
Development                  RPRP Bahia (Ln.4623-BR)                                    S               S
                             RPRPCearh(Ln.4626-BR)                                      S               S
                             RPRPPernambuco(4625-BR)                                    S               S
                             RPRPPiaui(Ln.4624-BR)                                      S               S
                             RPRPRio Grandedo Norte (Ln,4667-BR)                        S               S
                             RPRP Sergipe (Ln.4649-BR)                                  S               S
Water ResourceMgt. Water Res. Mgt. Prqject (Ln.4232-BR)
                      -                                                                 S               S
Health                       Bahia Dev. Health (in.7182-BR)                             S                S
Education                    FUNDESCOLA I11(Ln.7122-BR)                                 S                S
                             Bahia Dev. Ed. 2"dAPL (Ln. 7186-BR)                        S                S
Land Reform                  Land-basedPoverty (Ln.7037-BR)                              S             MU
                                                                                          OEDRatings
Closed Projects                                                                Implementation    Sustainability
Community-Driven             R-NRDP Minas Gerais (Ln2861-BR)                             S            Likely
Development
Land Reform                  Land ReformPilot (Ln.4147-BR)                               S            Likely
'AMaranhFioIntegrated     Project: RuralPoverty (Ln4735-BR) has been approved by the Board and is awaiting
Effectiveness.
 Implementation progress rated unsatisfactory due to delays indisbursements. The quality of work on the ground is
satisfactory, and the State of Minas Gerais has been an active participant inthe project.




                                                         29

                                                    BRAZIL
                             Rural PovertyReduction Project Minas Gerais
                                                                     -
                              Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring


                                             Results Framework


                  PDO                            Outcome Indicators

 Community associationsof the rural       1,860 subproject implemented and        IR 1: Baseline survey designed and
 poor in Minas Gerais access basic       maintained by community associations     mplemented
 social and economic infrastructure,                                              IR 2-3: Mid-termevaluation to
 contributing to an increasein HDI-M                                              letermine uptake among intended
                                                                                  )eneficiaries and assess needfor
                                                                                  Iossible adjustments to project
                                                                                  lesign.
                                                                                  1'4: ex post evaluation and
                                                                                  nainstream of CDD methodology

                                            Results Indicators for Each             Use of Results Monitoring
                                                      Component
 Component One:                           Component One:                          Component One:

 Rural communities self-select to access, Household surveys to verify targeting   YR 1: Track geographic expanse
 implement and maintain subprojects in effectiveness, changes inhousehold         ind municipal depth of investment,
 education, health, cultural,             welfare and income, attributable to the  1s gauge of information campaign.
 environmental and other productive       project.                                 YR 2-3: Determine links between
 investments                                                                       subprojectschosenand HDI
                                          Social Capital assessmentto quantify    parameters.
                                          participation and construct Community   YR 4: Assess effectiveness of
                                          ParticipationIndices.                   municipalcouncil decision-making
                                                                                  and prioritizing community
                                                                                  subprojects

rcymponent Two:                           Component Two :                          Component Two:

 CAS,MCs, and IDENEstaff receive          MIStracks number andtype oftraining      YR 1: Determine compliance with
 training and technical assistancefor     events                                   project operational manual re:
 subproject execution, roles and                                                   subproject preparation and
 responsibilities as described in the     Bank and IDENEsupervision missions       safeguards.
 project operational manual, and          to determine likelihood of physical,     YR 2-4: Reassesstraining as needed
 environmental and social dimensions of   financial, environmental sustainability  and update revise Op. Manual
 the project.                             of subprojects

                                          IDENEsemi-annual reports
 Component Three:                         Component Three:                         Component Three:

 Subprojects, community associations      Annual project audit to confirm          YR 1-4: Determine extent of
 and municipal councils evaluated         compliance with internationally          integration across programs, sectors,
 regarding effectiveness of CDD           acceptedpractices of financial           and policies for ruralpoverty
 methodology and sustainability of basic  management and Bank guidelines for       reduction
 servicesdelivery.                        procurement under the project.



                                                         30

          X




         X


        X



g g g

                                         BRAZIL
                     RuralPoverty Reduction Project Minas Gerais
                                                      -
                                 Annex 4: Project Costs


                                                Local   Foreign    Total
                                                 us      us        us
Project Cost By Component and/or Activity      $million $million  $million
1. CommunitySubprojects
         PAC                                      8.40      0.90       9.30
         FUMAC                                   26.80      2.65     29.45
         FUMAC-P                                  2.20      0.20       2.40
                        Subtotal Component 1     37.40      3.75     41.15

2. InstitutionalDevelopment                       2.30      0.80       3.10
3. Administration, Monitoringand Evaluation       0.90      0.30        1.20
                           Total Baseline Cost   40.60      4.85      45.45
PhysicalContingencies                             0.40      0.20       0.60
PriceContingencies                                0.30      0.10       0.40
                           Total Project Costs   41.30       5.15     46.45
                                 Front-endFee                0.35       0.35
                     Total Financing Required    41.30       5.50     46.80




                                             32

                                                 Brazil
                         RuralPovertyReductionProject           - MinasGerais
              Annex 5: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements



FinancialManagement and Disbursements

The financial management arrangements to be used by the project were reviewed by a Bank Financial
Management Specialist during project preparation for compliance with OP/BP 10.02. Based on this
review, the Project would have, by effectiveness, satisfactory financial management arrangements in
place to adequately monitor, control, account and report on Project's transactions.

Duringthe preparation Mission, the financial management module of the MIS was reviewed. The MIS
will be the overall managementsystemfor monitoring and controlling project execution and for financial
management.It includes accounting, funds flow andcontrol, payments, reporting, subprojectsmonitoring,
special account, disbursements, SOE, and general administration of the STU. The MIS was adaptedfrom
the Bahia State Company for Development and Regional Action (CAR), the STU of the RPPPthat State,
where it was also considered as satisfactory to monitor and report about the Project. Personnelfrom the
IDENE who will operate the system will be trained in all aspects of financial management module,
including SOE preparation.

Implementing Entity. IDENE is a semi-autonomous agency of the Special State Secretariat for the
Development of the Jequitinhonha Mucuri Valleys and Northern Minas Gerais (SEDVAN) and has
sufficient financial and administrative autonomy to (i)   flexibly operate the proposed project and (ii)
provide the project with a network of infrastructure and human resources both at central and regional
levels consistent with its responsibilities. There is an Operations Manual which is kept current and
updated, and internalcontrols are adequate and efficient. A good filing systemis inplace.

Project's Financial Management System. The State Technical Unit for the Produzir project (in the
State of Bahia) operates with the MIS that will be usedunder the project inMinas Gerais. This MIS i s the
overall management system for monitoring and controlling project execution and financial management,
including accounting, payments, reporting, SOEs preparation. The MIS has been operational in Bahia for
many years and, subsequent to the RPAP there, was upgraded to increaseits efficiency.

Financing requests from the communities for all loan categories applicable to subprojects are entered
through MIS, and after initial registration and management approval, the projects are implemented,
monitored and controlled with all pertinent information stored in the MIS data base. MIS data base i s
used for the preparation of SOEs and all reports required by management. For the new Loan, a special
screen will be added for the preparation of FMR for reporting purposes. The MIS records budgets,
estimates and goals as per POA andcompares these with actual figures and performance.

Furthermore, IDENE has in place adequate internal controls, i s adequately staffed and has its own
accounting system, which i s necessary to comply with Corporate Law (Law 6404/76). This systemi s not
integrated with MIS.

Reporting. Agreement was reachedwith regard to the format, content, and frequency of FMRs. IDENE
will prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) exclusively for project financial monitoring
purposes. The FMRs were reviewed and designed in such a way that they can be used as the year-end
FinancialStatements for auditingpurposes.



                                                    33

The following quarterly FMRs will beprepared:

    RSF- 1- Sources and Uses of Funds, by disbursement cost categories, cumulative (project-to-date;
    year-to-date and for the period) vs. actual expenditures, including a variance analysis;
    RSF - 2 - SOE Statement. This Report will reconcile disbursements with Sources of Funds as per
    RSF-1 and with Bank's Client Connection site;
    RSF-3 -Special Account Statement.

Supervision. Financial management supervision will take place every six months and will include (a)
reviewing of quarterly FMRs; (b) reviewing of the auditors' reports and follow-up of issues raised by
auditors in the managementletter, as appropriate; (c) participation in project supervision; (d) following up
on any financial reporting and disbursement issues; (e) updating the financial management rating in the
Implementation Status and ResultsReport (ISR).

Fundsflow. Funds will be depositedby the Bank from the Loan account to a special account with Banco
do Brasil New York. An equivalent account will be opened in Belo Horizonte to receive funds upon
withdrawal from the Special Account. From this account funds will be converted to R$, according to
project needs, and transferred to an operational account in Banco do Brasil for application in the
individual subprojects or contracts PAC, FUMAC, FUMAC-P. Any balance left in the US$ special
account will be invested inthe international financial market and interest will be credited to the project in
due course. Funds will be invested by IDENEup to 30 days after withdrawal from special account, and
SOEs for its replenishment will be submitted upon transfer of funds from the special account, according
to the Fiduciary Guidelines for Community Driver Development Projects. Counterpart funds from the
State of Minas Gerais will be requested by the STU and deposited inthe project operational account. The
communities' contributions to subproject investments will be defined in the agreement (conv8nio)
between the project Technical Unit and the beneficiary community association. This contribution will be
computed as part of counterpart finance of the project. Simple, standard records, whose format will be
included inthe project Operational Manual, will be completed by a designatedcommunity representative.
They will be used to record cash contributions, which will be directly paid to suppliers, materials and
labor inputs, andwill be subject to project audit procedures.

Disbursements.     The borrower has decided that disbursementswill adopt traditional, transaction-based
disbursements mechanisms. Accordingly, disbursementswill be made on the basis of SOEs/SOTs, except
for goods and works exceeding US$lOO,OOO             equivalent; contracts with consulting firms above
US$lOO,OOO equivalent; and with individuals above US$50,000, which will be supported by Summary
Sheets (SS). The information required for the compilation of SOEs/SOTs, as well as all relevant
supporting documentation, will be maintained in the MIS data base. All SOEs/SOTs disbursement
applications will be forwarded to the World Bank in Brasilia. At this stage, it is not envisaged that the
Borrower will consider converting to report-baseddisbursements.

A special account, with a maximum authorized allocation of US$3,500,000 (10% of Loan), will be
opened to ensure a timely flow of funds and smooth project implementation. No disbursement trigger i s
required to raisethe special account to its maximumauthorized allocation.

The proposed Bank loan will be disbursed over a period of four years. The project i s expected to be
completed by the project's Closing Date of January 31, 2010. The allocation of loan proceeds by
disbursementcategory i s shown in Table A.

Accounting Basis, Procedures and Policies. Project financial statements will be prepared, on a cash
account basis, every quarter and annually. These statements will be prepared by IDENE, in accordance


                                                     34

with standards agreed during preparation phase, in line with accounting norms and guidance acceptable to
the Bank. As part of the Operational Manual, a financial procedures manual will be prepared, and will
provide guidance with regardto all financial and administrative routines.

Auditing Arrangements. Annual project financial statements will be audited by independent auditors,
to be selected in accordance with acceptable auditing standards and in line with IFAC's norms and
guidance, which i s acceptable to the Bank, and according to the new Bank`s audit policy. The external
audit will be conducted under Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank. Auditors will be required to
issue a single opinion on project's financial statements, as per the guidelines "Annual FinanciaE Reporting
and Auditingfor World Bank-financed activities", of June 30, 2003. Auditors will also have to produce a
managementletter, where relevant internal control weaknesses will be identified, which will contribute to
the strengthening of the control environment. The auditor's report will be submitted to the Bank no later
than six months after the closing of the borrower's fiscal year. If the loan becomes effective only on the
second semester of 2005, it i s possible that the first audit will cover a period up to 18 months, from the
date of the first disbursement from the loan account (front end fee excluded) through December 31,2006.
This first audit would thenbe due on June 30,2007.

Table A: Allocation of LoanProceedsby Project Category

                     Expenditure Category                            Project   Financing Allocation of
                                                                     Cost in Percentage LoanProceeds
                                                                      US$                  inUS$million
                                                                     million
1. Grantsfor Community Subprojects (investments, technical
assistance and start-up grants)
(a) PAC Grants                                                            8.60        75%             6.4:
(b) FUMAC Grants                                                         27.36        75%             20.52
(c) FLIMAC-P Grants                                                       2.67        75%              1.7(

2. Consultants' servicesfor PartsB and C of the Project                   1.40       100%              1.4(
3. Training for PartsB and C of the Project                               1S O       100%              1 3
4. Administrative Costs
(a) incremental operational costs                                         0.90        20%              0.11
(b) project supervision andmonitoringcosts                                0.50        50%              0.2t

5. Fee                                                                    0.35                         0.35
6. Unallocated                                                            3.87                         2.65
                                                            Total        46.80                        35.00




                                                      35

                                             BRAZIL
                     RuralPoverty Reduction Project MinasGerais
                                                           -
                            Annex 6: Procurement Arrangements



 A. General

 Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
 "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines:
 Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the
 provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. The general description of various itemsunder different
 expenditure category is described below. For each contract to be financed by the Loan, the different
 procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the needfor pre-qualification, estimatedcosts,
 prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank project
 team in the Procurement Plan as applicable. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually
 or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
 capacity.


 Procurementof Works: Works procured under this project, would include: (i) works, costing
                                                                                   small
 less than US$50,000, embodied in subprojects demanded by community associations and will vary
 according to the nature of the investment subproject, such as rural electrification, small dams, water
 supply systems, localized rural road improvement, housing improvement, among many others.
 Procurement of works under subprojects costing less than US$50,000 equivalent would be carried out
 mainly through community participation which may include direct contracting by the communities.
 This procurement method is appropriate because most subprojects: (a) would be small andor
 implemented in scattered or remote areas and therefore it will be difficult to obtain competitive
 proposals; (b) can be managed directly by rural communities, which will also contribute directly to
 the work through the donation of unskilledlabor and local materials; (c) will be selectedon the basis
 of willingness of the beneficiary communities to contribute to and physically supervise works
 execution; and (d) would provide means by which communities could play an active role in the local
 development process.      Procurement of works under subprojects estimated to cost more than
 US$50,000 equivalent and less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$l.l
 millionfor works, would follow national shopping procedures. Contracts for subprojectsestimatedto
 cost more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent are subject to Bank no objection and would be awarded on the
 basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures satisfactory to the Bank. All details of
*procurement to be carried out by community associations are fully described in the Project's
 Operational Manual.

 When applicable, procurement will be done using Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) or
 NationalSBD agreedwith the Bank.

 Procurementof Goods:Most of the goods procured under this project, as in the case of works, are
 part of the subprojects demandedby community associations and will vary according to the nature of
 the investment subproject, such as farm tractor and implements, small product processing units,
 irrigation kits among many others. The vast majority of community subprojects involve both, works
 and goods. Normally goods and works come together and shall be procured as described above for
 works.




                                                36

Inaddition to goodsto be procuredby community associations for the approved subprojects, IDENE,
the STU, is expectedto acquire some goods, such as computer equipments for the Project's MIS and
training events, and vehicles for field supervision and monitoring work. Additional procurement of
goods estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.7
million would follow national shopping procedures.         Contracts estimated to cost more than
US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract would be awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Procurement of goods by communities is also described
inthe Operational Manual.

Procurement of non-consulting services: as in the case of works and goods, non-consulting services
are part of the subprojectsdemanded by community associationsand will vary according to the nature
of the investment subproject, such as services provided by skilled and unskilled workers, among
many others, and will be procured as described above for works and goods. As in the case of goods,
IDENE is expected to acquire some non-consulting services, such as those required for training
events and project dissemination campaigns. Shopping will be used for contracts estimated to cost
less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent and Bank's SBD or National SBD agreed with the Bank for
contracts estimatedto cost more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent.

SELECTION OF CONSULTANTS:

Firms: The loan would finance contracts with consulting firms for an information campaign,
technical assistance, studies and capacity building for the beneficiary communities and the State
Technical Unit - IDENE. These contracts would be awarded following a Quality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) process, in accordance with Section I1of the Consultant Guidelines. However,
services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured following
Least Cost Selection procedures in accordance with provisions for paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the
Consultant Guidelines.

Individuals: The consulting servicesrequired for the Project include specialized advisory services and
services to support project monitoring, such as MIS experts, which are appropriate for individual
consultants.    Individual consultants would be selected by comparison of qualifications of three
candidates and retained in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines, or may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with Paragraph 5.3
and 5.4 of the Consultants Guidelines, subject to prior approval from the Bank. The competitive
process followed to select individual consultants would be described in further detail in the Project
Operational Manual.

Universities, Government Research Institutions, Training Institutions, NGOs and national and
intemational technical assistance organizations are expected to be invited to participate in the
selection process for the contracting of services, notably for provision of technical assistance and
carrying out of studies, such as impact and result evaluation, physical performance study and various
special studies. Whenever the short list includes a mix of categories of firmdgroups the selection
would be either quality-based (QBS) or basedon the consultant's qualifications (CQS).

Community Participation: Goods and works costing $50,000 equivalent or less per contract under
Community Subprojects, may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank as
provided for in paragraph3.17 of the Guidelines (including direct contracting) and as set forth in the
Operational Manual.




                                                 37

OperationalCosts:

Sundry items, utilities and other incremental recurring costs would be financed on a 20 percent basis
and would be procured using IDENE's administrative procedures which were reviewed and found
acceptableto the Bank. Inaddition, the Bank would finance 50 percent of IDENE's incremental staff
costs required for project supervision and monitoring.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implementprocurement

Project administration and monitoring will be the responsibility of the Minas Gerais Northern and
Northeastern Development Institute, IDENE, the State Technical Unit (STU).            A procurement
capacity assessment of the STU was conducted by the Project Team's Procurement Specialist and
was clearedby the Regional Procurement Advisor's Office (RPA). The "Overall Procurement Risk"
was assessed as "LOW'. Procurement responsibilities will be carried out by the IDENE's
procurement staff that have performed successfully these functions during a previous similar loan and
are well versed in Bank procurement policies and procedures. With the exception of some technical
assistance for the beneficiaries which will be procured by the STU, it i s anticipated that all
procurement financed by the Project will be carried out by the grants beneficiaries. However, IDENE
will procure goods and works on an exceptional basison behalf of the beneficiaries which are deemed
not to have sufficient capacity. It is anticipated that these procurement activities carried out by the
STU, if any, will be limited. The beneficiaries' administrative capacity will be demonstratedin the
subproject proposals and evaluated by the Implementing Agency. In addition, IDENEwill exercise
overall quality control of procurement financed by the subprojects.

C. ProcurementPlan

A Procurement Plan was developed during appraisal. For the procurement to be carried out by the
communities, it i s not feasible to prepare a realistic plan as the subprojects are demand driven and
their average value i s expectedto be less than the equivalent of US$30,000. The ProcurementPlan for
IDENE will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements in institutionalcapacity.

D. Frequency ofProcurementSupervisionandPriorReview

Prior review will be required for all NCB contracts. In addition, the Bank will review the first
contracts procured through shopping procedures for goods and works, respectively. Contracts with
consulting firms estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more and with individual consultants estimated to
cost US$50,000 or more would be subject to the Bank`s prior review. Assignments of a critical nature
and amendments raisingcontract values above the saidthresholds will also be subject to prior review.

Although the level of Bank prior review of procurement will be overall low, it will be compensatedin
several ways. First, reviews of procurement by community contracting will be carried out yearly
during project implementation, under terms of referenceagreed during project preparation. Second,
cost comparisons of similar subprojects will be conducted using the project MIS in order to detect
possible procurement problems and determine whether prices paid under community procurement
were reasonable. Third, the project's annual physical performance evaluation will verify the physical
implementation of subprojects and analyze procurement issues. Finally, during Bank supervision,
additional random reviews will be conducted of subprojects, including field visits and review of
subproject documentation.




                                                 38

Specific procurement supervision missions will take place every twelve months during the
implementation periodof the Project to visit the field to carry out post review of procurementactions.
All regular bi-annual supervision missions will look at procurement aspects of the project and their
findingswill be reflectedon the Implementation Status Reports (ISRs).




                                                39

           C
           0
           C
           0             e0
                         E
          .C            .C
           v)
           Ga2en         4
          .3             a
                        -5
                        rr
                         0
          .9    .;
                  CJ          0
           5 s          .3
          "sj s          3,>2  d


           % E    Q      Y
                         v)
          a a           2




N    m     d

                   id




CI
v)
C
e,
i     *
.*
M
2
v)    8E
      .-C
       00
.-M
C      in

Y    4
s    rr
v)     0
C

+
3      5:      h
      .-*0a
      .3


*
0      L

.3
VY
cl    s3
h
vm

                                                      BRAZIL
                             RuralPovertyReductionProject              - MinasGerais
                                            Annex 7: ImpactAnalysis


Specific investments to be carried out under the proposed project will be decided by communities during
implementation. As such, it not possible to know a priori how available resources will be allocated, or to
estimate ex ante their cost-effectiveness, rate of return and associatedfiscal impact. However, subprojects to
be financed would, in general, be similar to those financed under previous and ongoing community-based
rural development projects, both in Minas Gerais specifically (as under the R-NRDP) and across the wider
Northeast Program3more generally.

Several evaluations of the Northeast Program have taken place since its inception. Inthis Annex, a summary
of the findings of these evaluations i s presented, including preliminary findings of evaluations currently
underimplementation by researchers from the University of Campinas(FECAMP) and the University of SBo
Paulo.

Background

Community-based activities were first introduced to Northeast Brazil in 1985 as a small-scale pilot
component of the World Bank-financed Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP). For several years
following effectiveness, this community-based component - Apoio ds Pequenas Comunidades Rurais
(APCR) - was the only activity under the NRDP to disburse effectively and achieve positive results on the
ground. The APCR, at a total component cost of US106 million, represented one of the most significant
attempts of the Bank to make rural development projects more participatory.                 By relying on rural
communities to organize, prioritize needs, and plan, execute and manage subprojects, this innovative
component produced results that were both encouraging and replicable, demonstrating that by involving
communities, poverty reduction could be achieved at a low per family cost. Equally important, the APCR
demonstrated the ability of municipal governments - which were not originally included as project
participants - to mobilize additional resourcesat atime of severe fiscal austerity

Inlate 1993, drawing on lessons from the APCR and similar schemeselsewhereinLatinAmerica, the NRDP
was reformulated into a full-scale community-based development program (R-NRDP). Significant features
of the reformulation were: (i)     decentralized decision-making, (ii) and community counterpart funding
                                                                         state
responsibilities and (iii) delegated implementation from the Federal Government to the State and local levels.
Subsequent evaluation of the Northeast program has confirmed that not only was it an effective model for
rural poverty alleviation, but also became a key tool of the Northeast States for promoting organized
decentralization, local development and community participation.

After field-testing the R-NRDPmodelfor over three years, eight Northeast StateGovernments4scaled-upthe
use of the methodology and usheredin the follow-on Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (PAPS), beginning
in 1995/96, followed by a third generation of sub-national projects, now operational since 2001. Today,
these projects are consolidating gains made under the previous generations of the Northeast program, while
simultaneously integrating activities of the project municipal councils with the local government and,
through more focused investment linked to the Human Development Index (HDI) and integrated with other
State- and Federal-level interventions, promoting asset accumulation of the poorest.



 Inthis annex, the Northeast Programrefers to the set of CDD-based rural poverty reductionprojects implemented
since 1993 in the ten states of Northeast Brazil (which includes NorthernMinas Gerais).
 Bahia, CearB, Maranhiio, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe

                                                            42

Mainconclusions of Evaluation studies

Northeast Program: Physicaland Financial Performance

Since 1993, nearly 50,000 community subprojects have been financed under the Program, as demanded by
over 40,000 community associations and benefiting approximately 2.5 million rural poor families in the ten
Northeast States of Brazil (see Table 1). Overall, some US$1.4 billion have been invested in the rural
Northeast over this time period, of which the Bank has contributed US$0.93 billion. Nearly 650,000 families
have benefited from rural electrification investments (30% of all subprojects), while some 800,000 families
now have access to safe water following the implementation of more than 13,500 water supply subprojects
(27% of total). Additionally, some 25% of subprojects have opened income-generation opportunities for
over 825,000 families. The implementation of the Northeast Program has dependedheavily on strong project
municipalcouncils, some 1,400 of which now operateacross the 1,600 rural municipalities of the Northeast.
These Councils, with majority participation composed of representativesfrom community associations, are
decision-making bodies that prioritize community demands for the purposesof financingunder the Program.

Table 1:Aggregate Results,Northeast Program (1993-present)
                                                    IR-NRDP         RPAP       RPRP)         -
                                                                                             Total
  Total Loan Resources Disbursed(US$ million)              339         434        162          934
  Total Project Resources(US$ million)                     616          578       214        1,408
  Subprojects Implemented                               17,860      23,573      8,317       49,750
  Families Benefited                                   890,000    1,244,477   388,129    2,522,606
  Community Associations                                14,900       19,154     6,930       40,984
  RuralElectrification Investments                       5,040        8,537     1,372       14,949
  Communities with Electricity                           4,200        7,198     1,143       12,541
  Families with Electricity                            246,960     357,272     42,477      646,709
  Water Supply Investments                               2,700        7,786     3,093       13,579
  Communities with Water Supply                          2,250        6,528     2,578       11,356
' Familieswith Water Supply                             110,250     524,108   168,176      802,534
  Productive Investments                                 5,893        4,887     1,806       12,586
1 Communities with Productive Investments                4,910        4,072     1,505       10,487
  Familieswith Productive Investments                  262,506      414,034   149,720      826,260
~




 Source: MIS data from respective state projects



Effective Povertv Tareetine:        Various studies support the emphasis on self-targeting by community
associations under the Northeast Program and confirm that the rural poor are being reached. In FECAMP
 (2004), the ex ante status of beneficiary communities (ie., at the time they began their participation in the
Program) was assessed across several demographic parameters: education, housing, employment and place
 of work, living conditions, household assets, and income. Using household surveys, the study found that
 73% of beneficiary families had mean monthly incomes of less than one-half of the monthly minimumsalary
 of R$180. For another 25% of these households exceeded this figure, but in all cases was below R$300.
Given a median family size of five individuals, this translates into an ex ante per-capita income of US$0.50
per day for nearly three-fourths of beneficiary families under the Program. An assessment of householdfood
 security for these same beneficiaries found that about 60% were "food-insecure", with intermittent periods of
hunger, prior to their participationin the Northeast Program (FECAMP 2004). This socio-economic profile
of beneficiary families and their food security confirms that the Northeast Program i s succeedingin targeting



                                                      43

rural poor fa mi lie^.^ Earlier findings from Van Zyl (2000) similarly validate the ex ante poverty status of
these rural communities. Only 41% had access to electricity, while some 36% had minimal sanitation
services - such as latrines. About one-fourth had access to (i)           safe drinking water and (ii) health
                                                                                                           local
services. Finally, about 40% of individuals inthese beneficiary families were illiterate.

In terms of absolute reach of the Northeast Program, nearly one-half of the rural Northeast poor have
benefited from subproject investments. In Bahia alone under its first-phase RPRP, some 45% of the rural
poor participated in and benefited from subprojects, while about 10% of the rural poor in Pemambuco have
benefited under the Program during 2002 and 2003. InCearh, from 1995 through 2003, about 60% of the
rural poor population had taken part in and benefited from subprojects financed under the Northeast
Program.

Quality of Life

Despite difficulty of addressing issues of attribution and selection bias, there are strong indications of
positive changes in the quality of life for those households which have benefited under the Northeast
Program. FECAMP (2004) sampled 300 households across 130 municipalities in three Northeastem states
to assess changes in living conditions among Program beneficiaries from 2000 to 2003. More than 80% of
households indicated that their quality of life had improved as a result of the subproject investment,
particularly in the areas of family health, physical living conditions (e.g., housing, sanitation, and durable
goods) and nutrition. Mean household income also increased, especially in subprojects which financed
housing upgrades and piped water. Overall, some 45% of beneficiary families had accessed to safe water
and more than 70% had obtained electricity. Electrical appliance use increased by about 3096, while a
majority of households also reported increasedhousing values. Greater access to safe water led to improved
water quality (reported by 55% of respondents), reduced sickness caused by having to search for water and
greater physical comfort (73% of respondents), more leisure time (70% of respondents) and reduced
incidence of water-bome disease (50% of respondents). Some 20% of respondentsfurther reported increased
agricultural production as a result of subprojects which financed small dams in their community (FECAMP
2004).

Khan (2002) surveyed Northeast Program beneficiary households in 1998 -- the early stage of the FWAP-
and returned to these same households in 2001. A comparison of these two data sets revealed a marked
increasedin income, health and education, access to basic services and civic participation. Mean household
incomes increased 79% over the three-year period among Program beneficiaries, at a time when per-capita
incomes for the rural population as a whole were actually declining. Inregard to health, Khan (2002) finds
that the mean occurrence of household sickness declined from 1.4 to 0.4, while the incidence of diarrhea (as
a proxy for water-bome diseases) decreased from 20% to 0.8%. The use of latrines increased from 17% to
41%, homes with piped water from 9% to 26%, and increaseof 42% in home refrigerators, and a more than
100%increaseinthe purchaseof motorcycles.


The bulk of subproject investments under the Northeast Program have been of the infrastructure type (72
percent), while social subprojects comprised less than 3 percent. Most of these subprojects are in the realm
of core public services (water, sanitation, electrification, social investments). Numerous studies show that
these basic services provide benefits that justify their universal provision. The cumulative experience of the
Program has shown that the CDD approach to rural infrastructure and service delivery targeted to the rural
poor can work in a cost effective manner in the Brazilian Northeast. Several aspects of project design help to


 FECAMP (2001), drawing on National Household Survey data, compared ex ante demographics between the
beneficiaries of the Bank-financed Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Ckdula da Terra)and
corroborated the self-selection targeting under this CDD project in that project beneficiaries clearly demonstrated worse
socio-economic conditions, when compared to the general rural population.

                                                          44

ensure that the CDD mechanism to deliver communal infrastructure and social investments represents the
least-cost, best alternative. First, the demand-driven nature of each subproject permits scarce resources to
flow where they are most needed. Community participation, under the direction of the project Municipal
Councils, ensures that the chosen subproject is the best alternative for the local community. Furthermore, the
Program has, in the Municipal Councils, a democratic mechanism to prioritize the use of the resources
available at the municipallevel. Second, the use of standardtechnical designs (projetos padrrib) for the most
common types of infrastructure and social subprojects (including corresponding cost parameters)ensures that
community associations employ least-cost models for subproject implementation. These standard designs
also decrease search and information costs for community associations by providing established patterns of
initiating and completing a subproject. The technical quality of these investments has been uniformly
satisfactory. Third, the delegation of subproject implementation directly to the community associations has
proven to generate cost savings, when compared to comparable quality works implemented by public sector
agencies.The contracting procedures prescribed in the Project Operational Manual require direct contracting
through competitive processes on all subprojects: the community association solicits three bids for the
subproject and chooses the least-cost bid. These characteristics have contributed to the cost-effectivenessof
the subprojectsfinanced under the Program.

Based on the analysis of a random sample of subprojects (including ten categories which collectively
represent some 80 percent of the types of subprojectsbeing financed), the costs for infrastructure and social
subprojects were found to be 30-50 percent less than projects of similar quality, when financed by the State.
State-level Program evaluations have also examined the quality of (i)the materials used, (ii)          overall
implementation, and (iii)  subproject operation. Inall states surveyed, the majority of subprojects were found
to be technically satisfactory and of good quality. Beneficiaries expressedtheir satisfaction with the quality
of their subprojects and regardedmore than 90 percent of all investments as being satisfactory overall.

The operation and maintenance of infrastructure and social subprojects has been also been satisfactory, with
community associations charging user fees sufficient to operate and maintain the investments. Van Zyl
(2000), based on information provided by the Project State Technical Units, found that a sample of 8,123
subprojects financed from 1995-98, finding that 7,240 of them, or 89 percent, were fully operational in
March 2000. Furthermore, the same review found that there was no substantial difference in terms of
 sustainability across infrastructure, productive and social subprojects. Of 6,064 infrastructure, 1,820
productive and 239 social community subprojects, 89, 87and 88 percent, respectively, were fully operational
 at the time of the study.

 Financial Viability of Productive Subpro.iects

 Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the principal types of productive subprojects analyzed.
Analysis of selected productive subprojects also suggests that the investments are generally financially
 sustainable (see Table 2). Although beneficiary associations receive a one-time grant for their productive
 subproject, this investment is financially sustainable because cost recovery through user fees by the average
 beneficiary association is, in general, adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of the original
 investment long before the end of its useful economic life.

 For illustrative purposes, twelve productive subprojects representing some of the most typical productive
 investments carried out under the Program were selected for financial analysis. Activity models were
 constructed for these subprojects, basedon field interviews with the managers of the subprojects, supervision
 and project preparation missions, and consultation of standardproject designs (projet,, padrzo) preparedby
 the StateTechnical Units. The subprojects analyzed are as follows:

     Manioc Mill.Middle-size construction equipped with mill, press, oven and other equipment required to
     process cassava into flour. Investments include a pack animal to transport produce to and from the plant.
     The mill serves a local community of some 30 to 40 farming families. The plant operates around 100


                                                       45

days per year processing some 120 tons of cassava into approximately 30 tons offurinha and4.8 tons of
starch, employing one personto operate the plant duringthose days. Farmers are charged ausers' fee of
15 percent of output. Association members normally pay a smaller fee than non-members.

Communal Tractor. 75 HP Tractor, plus trailer, grain sheller, grader and other equipment, including a
garage. The tractor benefits an association of some 65 farming families. The tractor works for members
and non-members providing land preparation, grain shelling and transport services. It works
approximately 1,700 hour per year serving some 300 ha. User fees for members are smaller than prices
chargedby private tractor owners and fees charged to non-members. The subproject employs a full-time
motorist hired by the association.

Small Irrigation 1. Purchaseof 18 localized irrigation kitsfor 38 families to pump water to irrigate a total
of some 29 ha (0.8 ha per family). The irrigation is accompanied by the introduction of a new technical
package and two new cash crops, chuchu and quiubo (two high-price Brazilian vegetables with good
local markets), which replace the existing traditional cultivation of corn, beans and bananas, providing a
very good return.

Small Irrigation 2. Sprinkling irrigation system to irrigate 10 ha of previously uncultivated land with
water pumped from a permanentwater source, benefiting 10farming families. Most of the irrigatedland
is used for traditional subsistence crops, com and beans, although a cash crop-- watermelon - i s planted
on one-third of the new area. Two crops are obtained per year.

Goat Production. Production of goats by a group of some 30 farmers, with an investment consisting of
120breeding females and 4 breeding males. A pen, a fence and other facilities are constructedand 85 ha
of improvedpastures are installed. Income is derived from the sale (or self-consumption) of incremental
animals andthe sale (or self-consumption) of milk.

Animal Feed Production EquiDment. Grinding machine and complementary equipment to produce
animal feed from crop residuals, together with a small construction to shelter the machine.Farmers pay a
small amount (R$ 1.5) per hour to use the machine. From these payments, electricity and maintenance
costs are covered and a small fund is formed. The machine works approximately six months per year.
Raw materials and labor to operate the machine are supplied by users. The organization and supervision
of machineuse i s freely supplied by associationleaders.

Honev Production. Purchase of 340 beehives plus 2 decanters, 2 centrifuges and other apiculture and
honey processing equipment to benefit an association of some 23 members with no previous apiculture
experience. Training is provided along with the equipment. The beehives, located in 8 sites, are
maintained by association members. They yield an annual output of some 8,200 kg of honey which is
sold wholesale.

Local Bakerv. Middle-size construction (120 sq. m) equipped with a gas oven and other baking facilities
to produce various types of bread, with an average output of 130 kg of bread per day. Employment
generatedconsists of a master baker and two full-time workers. Bread i s sold locally in the surrounding
communities.

Fish Farm. Five fish ponds of 2,200 m2each, with a capacity for 8,500 tilapia fish each. Ponds are
rotated, with 4 ponds being permanently used at a time. Two harvests are collected per pond in a year,
with a total output of 24,000 kg. of fish. Output is sold locally to middle-men. One person i s employed
half-time to feed the fish and another is employed half-time as watchman. Part-time labor i s used to
harvest the fish.




                                                  46

    Cashew Processing Plant. Middle size plant plus equipment to process cashew nuts. Some 200 tons of
    cashew nuts are processedannually into 46 tons of roasted and packed cashew almonds, which are then
    sold wholesale. It operates during ten months of the year, employing around 6 operators. Cashew nuts
    are bought from surrounding farmers serving some 150farmers with 1to 5 ha of cashew trees each.

    Jam Production Plant. Plant to process various local fruits into different types of jams and other
    confectionery products, producing an average of 175 kg per day of these products. Fruitand other inputs
    are bought by the plant. Products are sold retail locally and also wholesale to retailers. The subproject
    employs a plant managerand three permanent workers.

    Small Dairv Plant. Middle size plant (155 sq. m) equipped with a pasteurizationkit, cooling chamber and
    other facilities to pasteurizemilk,with a capacity of 1,200 1. per day. The plant is supplied by around 400
    cows with an average daily output of 3 liters per cow belongingto some 60 dairy farmers ina radius of 6
    km.Employsaplant manager and4 permanentworkers.

    The results of the financial analysis are summarized inTable 2.




The investment cost of the subprojects ranges from around R$7,000 to R$65,000, which i s typical of
productive investmentsunder the Program. All subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of return, some of
them being very high.Less than six years are neededto recover the investment in all cases and less than 3.5
in half of the cases. The net incremental annual income or value-addedgeneratedby the subprojects (at full
development) ranges from R$1,149 for the feed preparation equipment to R$90,781 in the case of one of the
irrigation subprojects, with an average value of around R$28,000 for an average investment of around R$
39,000. The InternalRates of Return(IRRs) of these productive subprojects comparefavorably with the real
cost of borrowingby the Brazilian Government.6

Three categories of projects can be identified in the above illustrative sample. First among these are
communal processing equipment or livestock activities which.are simple to operate and well-known to
farmers, meet community-wide needs, and directly benefit a majority of families in the community. The
manioc mill, communal tractor, feed production equipment and goat production subprojects fall into this


 A reference for suchborrowing is the Long-term Interest Rate (TJLP).

                                                        47

category.   The results summarized in Table 2 illustrate that these types of investments can be profitable.
Their financial retums, however, are not high because benefits are passed on to farmers in the form of
moderate user fees or because the activity in question i s intrinsically not very profitable as in the case of
small-scale goat rearing. These subprojects have the advantage of buildingon activities familiar to farmers,
and have therefore little training requirements and simple management needs. They also have low marketing
requirements since the community itself is the market for the service, and the outputs produced with the help
of the service normally have regular marketing channelsor are self-consumed.

The secondcategory of subprojects are those promotingoff- or on-farm productive activities which generate
full time employment and considerable income for a particular group of farmers in the community. The
small irrigation subprojects, as well as the honey production, jam production, fish farm and bakery
subprojects, belonginthis category. New activities producing a final consumption good to be sold in markets
outside the community, exemplified by the honey production, fish farming and jam production subprojects,
can be profitable and offer a source of income and employment to some members of the community;
however, these subprojects tend to be demanding interms of marketing and managerial skills. Other popular
subprojects in this category are clothes-making and the production of different artisanal goods such as
embroideries. These subprojects are normally part of industrieswhere the entry cost i s low and competition
high, leaving small operating margins. The lack of working capital and the difficulty to establish a brand
nameto differentiate the product and place it inthe best-paying markets are two common constraints.

Local bakeries, which are popular subprojectsin some states, have little training and marketingrequirements,
and are similar to cassava mills or communal tractors to the extent that they cater for a local need and have
therefore a local market, although inthis case it is that of a final good rather than of a productive service, but
they only offer employment and income to a reduced number of community members. The irrigation
subprojectsillustratewell that, whenever possible, irrigation together with the introduction of cash crops and
an improved technical package is a profitable and cost-effective way of increasing income and employment
in the semi-arid areas of the Brazilian Northeast, which can be successfully operated by local farmers at a
very small scale. The contrast between the very high retums to investment of the first subproject, where
new cash crops and technology were introduced alongside with irrigation, and the moderately high ones of
the second subproject highlights the impact of profiting from the availability of irrigation water to introduce
wider changes inthe cropping system.

The last category of subprojects consists of processing plants requiring comparatively higher capital
investment, which operate on a scale bigger than the communal equipment included in the first category,
benefiting also farmers outside the local community and hence with impact at a more regional level. The
dairy and cashew processingplants exemplify this type of subprojects.

To complete the financial analysis of productive subprojects, a weighted average i s calculated for the IRRs of
the activity models included in the sample. The shares of each of the twelve types of illustrative models
(which were taken to represent other similar ones) in the total amount invested in community productive
subprojects were used as weights. The resulting average IRR is 30.2 percent. This figure gives an indication
of the overall profitability of the productive subprojectsnormally financed under the Program, but should not
be taken as an ex ante estimate of the aggregate profitability of the productive investments, since it is not
known a priori which type of subprojects will be most requestedby beneficiary communities during the new
project.

Sensitivity Analysis/ Switching Values of Critical Items: To examine the financial robustness of the
productive subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was conducted on the illustrative activity models.           Three
scenarios are considered. In the first one, production i s assumed to be 20 percent below the base case,
because of, say, marketing problems.        A 20 percent decrease in output causes a 20 percent decrease in
revenue, but this is, to some extent, matched by a reduction in the use of inputs and hence in variable costs.
In the second scenario, the price decreases 20 percent and revenue also decreases by the same proportion


                                                       48

without any compensatingelement.     Finally, in the third scenario, an increase of 20 percent in the price of
variable costs is assumed. The resultsof the sensitivity analysis are shown inTable 3.




      FeedProduction
      Equipment                        15.4              11.2              10.2             14.4
             IRR (%)                  1,831              397                62              1,496
             NPV (R$)
      HoneyProduction
             IRR(%)                    16.8              10.0               7.2             11.6
             NPV (R$)                 9.112               42              -3,635            2,162
      LocalBakery
             IRR (%)                   35.0              20.1              < O              15.8
             NPV (R$)                 56,868            22,45 1          -21,559           12,859
      FishFarm
             IRR(%)                    15.6              9.3                < O              < O
             NPV (R$)                 13,739            -1,732           -39,886           -26,024
      Cashew ProcessingPlant
             IRR (%)                   >50               >50               48.3             >50
             NPV (R$)                288,790           210,642           132,561           201,015
      Jam ProductionPlant
             IRR (%)              I    41.7      1       24.0        I      < o      I       12.7
             NPV (R$)             I   69,062            29,690           -33,720            5,652
      SmallDairyPlant
             IRR (%)              I    19.7      I        2.0        I    n.d. (*)   I     n.d. (*)
             NPV (R$)             I   30,223     I     -23,493       1   -138,697    I     -84,98 1


Social Capital: The Northeast Program has proven instrumental in sparking and promoting the formation
and development of social capital, both within poor rural communities and as a contributing factor to good
governance in those municipalities covered under the Program.             Existing traditional solidarity and
cooperation networks at the community level provide a foundation which i s itself strengthenedby the CDD
approach pursued under the Northeast Program. As such the Program makes a quintessential contribution
toward breaking down clientelistic relationships at the local level (which require the intervention of the


                                                     49

political elite) and forging a new dynamic - hortizontally, by building ties among community associations
representingthe rural poor, and vertically,betweenthe ruralpoor andthe State (Costa and Rizvi 2003).

The Program has also been a primary force in the formation of a dense network of community associations,
as evidencedby: (i)   the growth in number of families joining and participatingin organized civil society, (ii)
the intensity of said participation and (iii) increased role of these associations in representing the rural
                                             the
poor in local policy dialogue. Studies (Costa and Rizvi 2003) indicate that this transformation in structural
social capital takes place more intensely in those communities which have implemented subprojects under
the Northeast Program, in that the attainment of these immediate and concrete benefits prove indispensable
to maintaining the organizational goals of the community association beyond the mere implementation of the
investment. Fecamp (2003) and Costa and Rizvi (2003) also evaluated the legitimacy of these associations
have universally observed a unidirectional transformation, in that, over time, these representativebodies are
successful in significantly reducing intended manipulation by local traditional political elites and
strengthening their sense of civic duty. When compared with community associationswithout subprojects,
those associations benefited under the Program are more capable o f (i)    responding to communal demands,
(ii)resolving internal conflicts, (iii)
                                      effectively advocating for their membership, (iv) mobilizing financial
and human resources and (v) solving local problems of the community.             Community associations are
increasingly viewed as "reference points" for the rural population, and are aprimary source of help intime of
need, often surpassingthe more traditionalkinshipandfriendship networks inthis regard.

Experience under the Northeast Program has shown that social capital accumulation is both a benefit in its
own right as well as an element of the success of rural CDD initiatives seekingpoverty reduction. Household
surveys and field observations reveal that more than two-thirds of beneficiaries agree that subproject
implementation helped to unite the community and increased participation in the community association
(Costa and Rizvi 2003). Several studies affirm that, since the 1980's, community mobilization has been on
the rise among the Northeast rural poor, and more so since the 1990's, coinciding with the reformulation of
the NRDPin 1993 into a participatory CDD mechanism(see van Zyl2000, Costa and Rizvi 2003).

Forthcoming:impact evaluations

A set of studies currently underway with apply a quasi-experimental model, combining both existing and
new data sets. These studies will take advantage of the fact that, at the end of the RPAP, there was a
significant backlog of fully evaluated and approved community subprojects, for which implementation was
delayed due to lack of funds until the RPRP became effective. By comparing the difference between this
"control group" and the "treatment group" of communities whose projects were funded in the last two years
of the first round, the impact of the subprojects can be assessed on a number of indicators which are already
available in the community profiles which accompany each subproject application. Measurement of
community and individual capital stock will also be attempted, using recall to recover the time when the
community subprojects were first approved. The differences between the two groups in the community
indicators and in the capital stocks will provide a measure of the impact of the Northeast Program.

Some of the expected indicators to be assessed in this study are: (i)       value of assets, consumption and
production (household and community level), as indicator of wealth, (ii) Education (e.g., years in school),
(iii) (e.g., incidenceofillnesses),(iv)accesstobasicservices(e.g., water,electricity,schools,health);
     Health
and (v) Social capital (e.g., organizational capacity, collective action, network building and capacity to
access other sources of fundindprograms).




                                                      50

Bibliography
Alberto Costa, "Cidadania, Participapio Comunitdria e Tomadade DecisGo: EsperanGas e Riscos para
       Associap7es Comunitdrias do Nordeste (Evaluation of Popular Participation under the RPAP)" -
       LCSREWorking Paper, June 1998.
Alberto Costa, "PCPR, Organiza@oComunitBria, Participa@o Popular e Capital Social: Estudodos Casos
       de Pemambucoe Piaui" -LCSREiWorking Paper, November 1999.

Alberto Costa, "Organiza@o Comunitdria, Capital Social e a Gestiio de Subprojetos" - presented at
        workshop entitled, "Administration of Sanitation Services in Small Towns and Municipalities:
        Innovative Actions in Search of Sustainability." SEDU, National Water Agency, Caixa Econ8mica
        Federal,World Bank. Brasilia, DF. May 2002.

Andrea Ryan Rizvi, Alberto Costa, "Can community driven infrastructure programs contribute to social
        capital? Findings from the rural North East of Brazil" - Social Capital Task Team Seminar Series,
        Washington, DC. May 2003.

Alberto Costa, "Measuring Social Capital: Findingsfrom the Rural North East Brazil." Social Capital Task
       Team Seminar Series, Washington, DC. May 2003.

Alberto Costa, "0 Programa de Combate d Pobreza Rural e o Capital Social no Espaco Rural do Nordeste
        Brasileiro". Presented at "Measuring Social Capital for Development", Northeast Dialogues on
        Rural Poverty Alleviation Seminar. The World Bank Institute, IICA, UNDP, and EMBRAPA.
        Brasilia, DF.June 2003.

Buainain, AntBnio MBrcio e Rinaldo Barcia Fonseca (coord.).       "Projeto de Combate ii Pobreza Rural
        (Renascer-Pemambuco): Funcionamento e Resultados Imediatos       ". Draft. Instituto de Economia,
        Universidade de Campinas, Campinas, July 15,2004.

Buainain, AntBnio Mfircio e Rinaldo Barcia Fonseca (coord.). "Projeto de Combate d Pobreza Rural (Siio
        Jose`- Cear6)- Parte I de II: Resultados Imediatos e Desempenho". Draft. Instituto de Economia,
        Universidade de Campinas, Campinas, October 28,2004

Buainain, AntBnio Mkcio e Rinaldo Barcia Fonseca (coord.). "Projeto de Combate d Pobreza Rural
        (Produzir - Bahia) - Parte I de II: Resultados Imediatos e Desempenho". Draft. Instituto de
        Economia, Universidade de Campinas, Campinas, September25,2004.

Buainain, AntBnio Mkcio (coord.). "Estudo de AvaliapTo de Impacto do Programa Ce`dulada Terra 2001.
        Final Report. Universidade de Campinas, Campinas.July 2002.

CEPLAN. Avalia@io do Desempenho Fisico dos Subprojetos do PCPR - Pernambuco - Projeto Renascer.
        Recife, PE. September2004.

DESENBANCO. Estudo Custo-Beneficio do Programa Produzir II.Salvador, Bahia. July 2004.

FECAMP.      Impact Assessment of the Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Project (Ce`dula da Terra).
        2003.

Hydros. Estudo de Desempenho Fisico do Projeto de Combate d Pobreza Rural do Estado de Sergipe.
        August 2004.




                                                     51

Instituto Civitas. Estudo de Desempenho Fisico do Projeto de Combatea Pobreza Rural do Estado do Piaui.
        September 2004.

Instituto Civitas. Relatdrio para Revisiio do Projeto de Combate a Pobreza Rural do Estado do Piaui.
        September2004.

Instituto Civitas. Estudo de Casos do Projeto de Combate h Pobreza Rural do Estado do Piaui. September
        2004.

Johan van Zyl, Loretta Sonn, and Albert0 Costa, "Decentralized Rural Development Enhanced Community
        Participation and Local Government Pe$ormance: Evidence from Northeast Brazil" - LCSRE
        Worlung paper, July 2000.

Khan, Saeed Ahmad e Lucia Maria Ramos Silva. "Avaliagiio do Projeto Siio Jose` no Estado do Ceard:
        Estudo de Cas0". Departamentode Economia Agricola, Universidade Federal do CearB, Fortaleza.
        2002.

Kottak C., Costa, A. and Prado, R. "A Study of Popular Participation in Brazil: Northeast Rural
        Development Program (NRDP-PAPP)".           Paper presented at Workshop on Participatory
        Development, Washington DC. World Bank. May 1994.

NEPEIGEAGRO. Relatdrio Final do Projeto de Combate h Pobreza Rural do Estado do Maranhiio (Projeto
        Comunidade Viva), Sgo Luis,MA. April 2004.

SDLWCOPE. Relat6rio de Revisgo de Meio Termo - RMT do Projeto S ~ JosC, Fortaleza, CearB. July 2004.
                                                                       O




                                                    52

                                                  BRAZIL
                           RuralPoverty ReductionProject Minas Gerais
                                                                -
                            Annex 8: Project Preparation and Supervision



                                                        Planned             Actual
~




 FirstIdentificationMission                           OW01/2001            08/2001
 Appraisal                                             11/25/2001          11/2001
 Negotiations                                         06/15/2003           07/2005
 BoardRVP approval                                      09/2003           09/06/2005
 Planneddate of effectiveness                         07/3112005          09/30/2005
 Planneddate of mid-termreview                        07/0112007          01/31/2008
 Plannedclosing date                                  01/31/2010          07/31/2010


 Key institutions responsiblefor preparation of the project:

         State Secretariatof Planning and Management (SEPLAG)

 Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:

 Name                                        Title                       Unit
 LuisCoirolo                 Lead Sector Specialist, TeamLeader        LCSER
 JoHo Barbosade Lucena                    Consultant                   LCSRE
 Tulio Barbosa                            Consultant                    LCSRE
 Edward Bresnyan                        ETConsultant                   LCSER
 Raimundo Caminha                         Consultant                    LCSRE
 Anna Roumani                           ETConsultant                    LCSER
 ClaudioMittelstaedt                    ETConsultant                   LCOAA
 MarianaMontiel                        Senior Council                  LEGLA
 Marta Molares-Halberg                  Lead Council                   LEGLA
 Jose August0 Carvalho                    Consultant                   LEGLA
 Luiz Gazoni                     LeadProcurement Specialist             LCOPR
 Irani Escolano                      Procurement Analyst                LCSES


 PeerReviewer:
 KlausDeininger                        LeadEconomist                   DECRG

 Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
     1. Bankresources:174,434
     2. Trust funds:         -0-
     3. Total:            174,434

 EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remainingcosts to approval:                 7,500
     2. Estimatedannual supervision cost:         80,000



                                                       53

                                       BRAZIL
                 RuralPoverty Reduction Project MinasGerais
                                                      -
                        Annex 9: Documents inthe Project File



A. Project ImplementationPlan
0  Draft Operational Manual for Minas Gerais

B. Bank Staff Assessments


0  Sector Issues andConcept
   0   Government of Minas Gerais Project Document (March 2001)
0  Project Economic and Financial Analysis
   0   Cost-Benefit Analysis for selectedSubprojects
   0   Fiscal Impact
0  Project Implementation Arrangements
   0   Community Organizations
   0   StateTechnical Units(STUs)
   0   Secretariatof Planning
   0   Secretariatof Agriculture, Supply and Fisheries
   0   NGOS
   0   Private Sector
   0    Social Capital Assessment
0  Project Monitoring
   0   Project Database
   0   Monitoring Activities
   0    Project Reporting

C. Background Studies (see also referencesinAnnex 7)


0  MidTerm Review of RuralPoverty Alleviation Program in Bahia, Ceara andPemambuco.
0  Rural Development Programsfor Brazil's Northeast: An InterimAssessment




*Including electronic files.




                                           54

                                                            BRAZIL
                                   RuralPovertyReductionProject                - MinasGerais
                                       Annex 10: Statementof Loansand Credits


                                                                                                              Differencebetween
                                                                                                              expectedandactual
                                                          Original Amount in US$Millions                        disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel. Undisb. Orig.     Frm.Rev'd

PO82523    2006 BR-Human DevelopmentTA                   8.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00      0.00
PO82142    2006 BR-CearaMulti-sectorSocialInclusDev     149.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00  149.75    0.00        0.00
PO69934    2005 BR-PERNAMBUCO INTEGDEVT:                 31.SO      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   31.50    3.50        0.00
                EDUC QUAL IMPR
PO78716    2005 BR(CRL1)ProgGrowthfor Housing           502.52      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00  502.52    0.00        0.00
PO76924    2005 BR-(Amapa) SustainableCommunities        4.80       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    4.80    0.04        0.00
PO82328    2005 BR-Integ.Munic.Proj.-Betim Municipality  24.08      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   23.95    2.98        0.00
PO83533    2005 BR TA-Sustain. &Quit Growth              12.12      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   12.12    1.oo        0.00
PO86525    2005 BR PRGM. FISCALREF- SOCIAL SEC          658.30      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  658.30    0.00        0.00
                REFORM
PO87711    200s BR EspiritoSanto Wtr & CoastalPollu      36.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   33.82    0.42        0.00
PO60573    2004 BR Tocantins SustainableRegionalDev      60.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   57.40   15.40        0.00
PO87713    2004 BR (CRLI) BolsaFamilia 1stAPL           572.20      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  464.34  -10.76        0.00
PO80830    2004 BR Maranhao Integrated:RuralDev          30.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   30.00    5.20        0.00
PO83013    2004 BR DiseaseSurveillance& ControlAPL      100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   99.00    -0.50       0.00
                2
PO58503    2003 GEFBR AmazonRegionProt Areas             0.00       0.00      0.00     30.00   0.00   22.68   20.00        0.00
                (ARPA)
PO76977    2003 BR-Energy Sector TA Project              12.12      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   12.00    6.00        0.00
PO54119    2003 BR BAHIA DEVT (HEALTH )                  30.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   26.48   11.48        0.00
PO70827    2003 BR-2ndAPL BAHIA DEV.                     60.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   28.59   18.91        0.00
                EDUCATIONPROJECT
PO80400    2003 BR-AIDS & STD Control3                  100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   91.88   38.18        0.00
PO49265    2003 BR-RECIFEURBAN UPGRADING                 46.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   44.39    10.21       0.00
                PROJECT
PO74777    2003 BR-Municipal PensionReformTAL             5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    4.91     4.91       0.41
PO60221    2002 BR FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN                85.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  111.47   74.02        0.00
                TRANSPORTPROJ
PO43869    2002 BR SANTA CATARINA NATURAL                62.80      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   55.82   21.14        0.00
                RESOURC& POV.
PO57665    2002 BR-FAMILY HEALTHEXTENSION                68.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   42.00    36.40       0.00
                PROJECT
PO57653    2002 BR- FUNDESCOLAIIIA                      160.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  122.39   -99.88       0.00
PO55954    2002 BR GOIAS STATEHIGHWAY                    65.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   26.59   26.59        -0.49
                MANAGEMENT
PO74085    2002 BR Sergipe RuralPovertyReduction         20.80      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    1.23    -0.77       0.00
PO51696    2002 BR SA0 PAUL0 METROLINE4                 209.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  156.89   147.69       -5.11
                PROJECT
PO66170    2002 BR-RGN 2ND RuralPovertyReduction         22.50      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   11.60     8.40        0.00
PO70552    2002 GEFBR PARANA BIODIVERSITY                0.00       0.00      0.00      8.00   0.00    6.06     6.91        0.00
                PROJECT
PO73192    2002 BR TA FinancialSector                    14.50      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    9.30     9.30        0.00
PO73294    2001 BR Fiscal& Fin.Mgmt. TAL                  8.88      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    6.74     5.78        0.00

PO59566    2001  BR- CEARA BASICEDUCATION               90.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     61.18   -28.82         0.00
PO50881    2001  BR PIAUIRURALPOVERTY                   22.50    0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      4.11     4.11        -0.49
                 REDUCTIONPROJECT
PO50880    2001  BR PemambucoRuralPoverty Reduction     30.10    0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      6.87     6.87         0.00
PO50875    2001  BR Ceara RuralPovertyReduction         37.50    0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       1.82    1.82         0.00
                 Project
PO50772    2001  BR LAND-BASED POVRTY                  202.10    0.00     0.00     0.00     58.13    150.32   152.74         0.00
                 ALLEVIATION I(SIM)
PO06449    2000  BR CEARA WTR MGTPROGERIRH             136.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      57.16   57.16        14.20
                 SIM
PO35741    2000  BR NATL ENV 2                           15.00   0.00     0.00     0.00      6.00       1.93    7.93         4.74
PO47309    2000  BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEF)               0.00   0.00     0.00     15.00     3.10       1.57    4.67         1.64
PO50776    2000  BR NEMicrofinance Development           50.00   0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      21.20    16.30        0.00
PO39199    2000  BR PROSANEAR2                           30.30   0.00     0.00     0.00      6.40      18.81   25.21        18.81
PO48869    1999  BR SALVADOR URBAN TRANS               150.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      32.00     53.95   85.95         0.00
PO50763    1999  BR- Fundescola2                       202.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      10.86      4.24    15.10        0.00
PO06474    1998  BR LANDMGT 3 (SA0 PAULO)                55.00   0.00     0.00     0.00      10.00     33.16   43.16        30.28
PO42565    1998  BR PARAIBA R.POVERTY                    60.00    0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00       4.47     4.47        0.00
PO43420    1998  BR WATER S.MOD.2                      150.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     125.00     19.33   144.30        7.53
PO43421    1998  BR RJM.TRANSITPRJ.                    186.00     0.00    0.00     0.00      27.78     79.07   106.85       11.14
PO57910    1998  BR PENSIONREFORMLL                       5.00    0.00    0.00     0.00       0.50      1.49     1.99        0.90
PO38895    1998  BR FED.WTR MGT                        198.00     0.00    0.00     0.00      40.00     47.31    87.31       32.63
PO43868    1997  BR RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY               100.00     0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00      1.97     1.97        0.00
PO43873    1997  BR AG TECH DEV.                         60.00    0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     14.09    14.09        14.09
PO34578    1997  BR RGSHighway MGT                       70.00    0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     13.72    13.72        -1.02
PO06532    1997  BR FEDHWY DECENTR                     300.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     50.00     44.15    94.15         0.00
PO37828    1996  BR (PR)R.POVERTY                      175.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     10.00     22.23    32.23        -7.18
PO06210    1996  GEFBR-NATLBIODIVERSITY                   0.00    0.00    0.00     10.00      0.00      1.36     1.31         0.72

                                                Total: 5,474.62   0.00    0.00     63.OO    379.77  3,514.03  1,257.14     122.20




                                                             BRAZIL
                                                   STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                 HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                   InMillions of US Dollars


                                                             Committed                              Disbursed
                                                          IFC                                     IFC
      FY Approval   Company                    Loan       Equity   Quasi    Partic.   Loan        Equity    Quasi     Partic.
      2005          ABN AMRO REAL              7.00         0.00    0.00      0.00      7.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
      2001          AG Concession              0.00        15.00    15.00     0.00      0.00      14.07      0.00      0.00
      2002/05       Amaggi                     30.00        0.00    0.00      0.00      15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      2002          AndradeG. SA               25.67        0.00    10.00    15.15     25.67       0.00     10.00     15.15
      2001          Apolo                      7.21         0.00    0.00      0.00      4.71       0.00      0.00      0.00
      2005          Aracntz                    50.00        0.00    0.00      0.00      50.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      1998          Arteb                      20.00        0.00    0.00     18.33      20.00      0.00      0.00     18.33
      1999          AutoBAn                    22.73        0.00    0.00     17.25      22.73      0.00      0.00     17.25
      1998          BSC                        1.33         0.00    0 00      0.55       1.26      0.00      0.00      0.55




                                                                56

1996        Banco Bradesco      0.68    0.00   0.00   1.oo   0.68   0.00   0.00   1.oo
2001        Brazil CGFund       0.00    20.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   2.60   0.00   0.00
1994196     CHAPECO             1.78    0.00   0.00   5.26    1.78  0.00   0.00   5.26
2002104     C N Odebrecht       25.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   25.00  0.00   0.00   0.00
2003        CPFL Energia        0.00    0.00   40.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   40.00  0.00
1992        CRP-Caderi          0.00    0.17   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.17   0.00   0.00
1996197     CTBC Telecom        0.00    6.54   0.00   0.00    0.00  6.54   0.00   0.00
1999        Cibrasec            0.00     3.22  0.00   0.00    0.00  2.7 1  0.00   0.00
2004        Comgas              45.00   0.00   0.00   45.00  12.50  0.00   0.00   12.50
19971'00    Coteminas           0.00     0.18  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.18   0.00  0.00
1980192     DENPASA             0.00     0.06  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.06   0.00  0.00
1998        Dixie Toga          0.00    10.36  0.00    0.00   0.00  10.36   0.00  0.00
1997        Duratex             3.24     0.00   3.00   2.55   3.24   0.00   3.00   2.55
1999        Eliane              19.20    0.00  13.00   0.00  19.20   0.00  13.00  0.00
1998        Empesca             5.00     0.00  10.00   0.00   5.oo   0.00  10.00  0.00
2000104     Fleury              20.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1998        Fosfertil           4.55     0.00   0.00  16.70   4.55   0.00   0.00  16.70
1998        Fras-le             5.33     0.00   9.99   0.00   5.33   0.00   6.69   0.00
1994        GAVEA               0.00     0.00   5.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   5.50   0.00
            GP Cptl Rstrctd     0.00     3.02   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.95   0.00   0.00
2001        GPC                 0.00     0.00   9.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   9.00   0.00
1997        Guilman-Amorim      20.99    0.00   0.00  28.74  20.99   0.00   0.00  28.74
1998        IcatuEquity         0.00     5.79   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.42   0.00   0.00
1999        Innova SA           12.50    5.oo   0.00  30.00  12.50   5.00   0.00  30.00
198Ol87197  Ipiranga            23.62    0.00   0.00  39.75  23.62   0.00   0.00  39.75
1999        Itaberaba           0.00     2.28   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.28   0.00   0.00
2000/02     Itau-BBA            83.63    0.00   0.00   0.00  51.48   0.00   0.00   0.00
1999        JOSAPAR             7.57     0.00   7.00   0.00   2.57   0.00   7.00   0.00
1995        Lojas Americana     2.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1992199     MBR                 12.50    0.00   0.00   0.00  12.50   0.00   0.00   0.00
2002        Macae               38.27    0.00  10.00  31.25  38.27   0.00  10.00  31.25
2002        Microinvest         0.00     1.25   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.42   0.00   0.00
2002105     Net Servicos        0.00     7.37   0.00   0.00   0.00   7.37   0.00   0.00
1994        Para Pigmentos      6.45     0.00   9.00   0.00   6.45   0.00   9.00   0.00
1996        Perdigao            2.19     0.00   0.00   0.00   2.19   0.00   0.00   0.00
1994100102  Portobello          0.00     1.15   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.15   0.00   0.00
2000        Puras               1.33     0.00   1.oo   0.00   1.33   0.00   1.oo   0.00
2003104     Queiroz Galvao      0.60     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.08   0.00   0.00   0.00
            Randon Imp1Part     3.27     0.00   3.00   0.00   3.27   0.00   3.00   0.00
1997103     SP Alpargatas       30.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  15.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997        Sadia               5.84     0.00   3.67  37.06   5.84   0.00   3.67  37.06
2002        Salutia             0.00     0.01   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997        Samarco             5.40     0.00   0.00   0.00   5.40   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998        Saraiva             3.46     2.40   0.00   0.00   3.46   2.40   0.00   0.00
2003        Satipel             12.86    0.00  10.00   0.00  12.86   0.00  10.00   0.00
2000        Sepetiba            26.68    0.00   5.00   0.00  11.68   0.00   5.00   0.00
1999        Sudamerica          0.00     7.35   0.00   0.00   0.00   7.35   0.00   0.00
2001        Synteko             15.43    0.00   0.00   0.00  15.43   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998104     Tecon Rio Grande    8.10     0.00   0.00   8.10   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00



                                             57

2001/03   Tecon Salvador              0.00         0.56      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.55        0.00   0.00
2004      TriBanco                     10.00       0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
2002      UP Offshore                  11.60       10.00     0.00   30.00      0.00    3.00        0.00   0.00
2002/04   Unibanco                     20.00       0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00

                     Total portfolio:  658.01    101.71    164.16   326.69   470.57    73.58      145.86 256.09




                                                               Approvals Pending Commitment

          FY Approval     Company                          Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic.

          2005            ABN AMRO REAL                  0.03         0.00       0.00       0.00
          2000            BBA                            0.01         0.00       0.00       0.00
          2002            Banco Itau-BBA                 0.00         0.00       0.00       0.10
           1999           Cibrasec                       0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
          2005            Cosan SAIC                     0.05         0.02       0.00       0.00
          2005            Embraer                        0.04         0.00       0.00       0.10
          2005            GP Capital I11                 0.00         0.02       0.00       0.00
          2005            LOJAS I1                       0.04         0.00       0.00       0.00
          2002            Suape ICT                      0.01         0.00       0.00       0.00
          2004            TermoFortaleza                 0.06         0.00       0.01       0.11

                                Total pendingcommitment:    0.24      0.04       0.01       0.31




                                                        58

                                                           BRAZIL
                                Rural Poverty ReductionProject Minas Gerais
                                                                          -
                                              Annex 11: Country at a Glance



                                                            Latin  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL
                                                   Brazil &Carib.

                                                                                      Lifeexpectancy
                                                    2,720   3260
                                                    4795     1,741




                                                                                Access to improvedwater source


                             chool-agepopulation)                            -Braul



                     ATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                            1983    1993

                                            2033    438.3




                                                                                        Indebtedness




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                            1983    1993    2002     2003
(%ofGDP)
Agriculture                                   a 9     76       58      58
Industry                                      440    416     206       8 1
 Manufactunng                                 332    250      P 4      I14
Sewices                                       451    508     735      75 1

Private consumption                           712    601      581     569
Generalgovernment consumption                  97     177     20.1    8 3
imports of goods andsetvices                   90      91     t34      a1

                                        1983-93 1993-03     2002     2003
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                    24     39       50      55
lndustfy                                       12      18      26      -10
 Manufactunng                                  0 0     14      14      2.7
Services                                       30     25       16     -02

Pnvateconsumption                              08      19     -0 4    -33
Generalgovernment consumption                  6 4    20       10      116
Gross domestic investment                      49      12     -43     -45
Importsof goods andsewices                     59     40     - e 3     -19



                                                                59

                                                                                                                        Brazil

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1983     1993    2002    2003        1 Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                                                                i
(%change)
Consumer prices                          l35.0  1,928.0    e.5      9.3
ImplicitGDP deflator                     1402   1,996.6    10.2     P.8

Government finance
(%ofGDP,includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                             23.9    23.7                 98    99     00       01      02     0
Currentbudget balance                                       2.8     3.0
Overallsurplusideficit                                                                  -GDP     deflator     -CPI


TRADE
                                        1983     1993    2002    2003
(US$ mil/ions)                                                                   Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                              38,563   60,362  73,064      180000   T
 Coffee                                          2,466   3,049    3,456
 Soybeans                                        3,074   3,032    4,290
 Manufactures                                   25,935   33,000  39,653
Total imports (cif)                             25256    47237   48,260
 Food                                             1,089   1,085     924
 Fuelandenergy                                   2J39     6240    6,577
                                                                              I
 Capitalgoods                                    8,369   11,643   Q348

Export priceindex(1995=00)                  80       91      88      95                 97  98   99      00     01    02   03

Importpriceindex(l995=00)                   57      67       91      90                       a Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (895=00)                    140      06       97      n 5


BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1983    1993    2002     2003
(US$ mi//ions)                                                                  Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exportsof goods andservices             23,611   41,616  69,913  83,567       12; i
Importsof goods andservices             8,534   31,795   61,709   6388
Resource balance                         4,077    9,821   8204    8,748

Net income                              -11,022 -e,o99   -18,191 -18,552
Net current transfers                      n 8    1,686   2,390   2,867

Current account balance                 -6,837    -592   -7,597   4,063

Financingitems (net)                     4,946   9,805   -6,003    -963
Changes innet reserves                    1,891  -9,20   0,600    -3,x)O

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)     4,563   32,211  37,823  49,296
Conversion rate(DEC,/oca//US$)         2.nE-D 322E-2        2.9      3.1


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1983    1993    2002     2003
(US$ millions)                                                                I Composition of 2003 debt (US$ mill.]
Total debt outstandinganddisbursed      98,525  w , n 4 228,662  236,245
  IBRD                                   3,628   6,575    8,585   8,588
  IDA                                        0        0       0        0

Total debt service                      0,304    x),883  51,636  56,793
  IBRD                                     507    1,658    I518    2,on
  IDA                                        0        0       0        0

Compositionof net resourceflow
 Official grants                             16     59        0
 Official creditors                      1,576   -1,033     916
  Privatecreditors                       2,659   1),073   -9,541    233
 Foreigndirect investment                1,609    1292        0
  Portfolio equity                           0   6,570        0
                                                                               I            F
WorldBank program                                                                         155,904
 Commitments                             2,067     636     1276     1,2l7      i A - IBRD                         E- Biiaterd
  Disbursements                          1,204      471    1,384    1,291        B .IDA    D Gther rrmllilateral
                                                                                             -                    F- Private
  Principalrepayments                     270     1,279    1,063   1,633       IC-IMF                             G - Short-term




                                                              60



