Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFC:IAL USE ONLY
(C P. /b  - 2
Report No. 5114-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT-
Z-AIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 12, 1984
Central Agriculture
Eastern Africa Projects
' lhis document has a restricted disrbution and may be usd by rcpients only in the performance of|
|  official duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World fln  auhoration.|



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATES a/
Currency = Zaire (z)
1 z       =  $0.033
1 $       =  Z 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric               English/American Equivalents
1 hectare (ha)       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)     0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)      2.2 pounds (lb)
I metric ton (t)     2,204 pounds
CROP CONVERSIONS
1 kg paddy                 =  0.6 kg rice
1 kg fresh cassava         =  0.5 kg prepared cassava (cossette)
1 kg fresh bean pods       =  0.5 kg dried
1 kg ear of maize          =  0.8 kg dried grain
1 kg unshelled groundnuts  =  0.5 kg shelled groundnuts
1 sack cassava             =  80 kg
1 sack maize               =  80 kg
FISCAL YEAR (Government)
January 1 -  December 31
a/ January 1984.



FOR OMCLL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Glossary .................. .             ... *............... ........         (i)
Credit and Project Summary .................................  (ii)-(iii)
I.  BACKGROUND ................................. .                .....          1
A.  Introduction ............................ ..........                    1
B.  The Agricultural Sector           . .. ................                 2
C.  Agricultural Services . ......... .......  .............. .             4
D.  Government Strategy for Agricultural Development ...                    8
E.  Bank Group Support for Agriculture .................                    9
II.  THE PROJECT AREA ...............             .......................        10
A.  General. ............           ...............................        10
B.  Physical Resources .......... .... ...................                 11
C.  The Farming Population and Farming Practices .......                   12
D.  Institutional Infrastructure ........................                  14
E.  Development Programs ........ *.....................                   17
III. THE PROJECT ................                                                 19
A.  Project Concept and Rationale ......................                   19
B.  General Description .... ............................                  20
C.  Detailed Features . a........................ ........                20
D.  Project Costs ............... *           ......................       25
E.  Financing ........... ................................... .....        26
F.  Disbursements ...           ....................... .                  27
G.  Procurement .......................................                   27
H.  Accounts and Audit ...........  .......... a.............              29
I.  Environmental Impact ................................                 30
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................                   30
A.  General .........          ...................................         30
B.  Project Organization ...............................                   31
C.  Implementation of Project Components ...............                  32
D.  Reporting ................................................             37
I This document h  a resticted ditibuton and may be used by reipients only in the perfonmnce of
their ofica duties. Its contents may not otherwis be dislosed without World Bank authoriation.



Page No.
E.  Mid-term Review ......... ..................*.........        38
F.  Project Completion Report       ...........................   38
V.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION               ........ ...... a  ......     39
A.  Technical Features .......... 000..*..0......                 39
B.  Production .........** .**.............0.* *.*..*..-...       40
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .....................42
A. Markets and Prices                                             42
B. Financial Projections                                          43
C. Farm Incomes .........         .......43
D.  Cost Recovery and Fiscal Analysis  .,.........44
E.  Budgetary System .                      .......*45
VII.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION            ................                 45
A.  Justification and Benefits    ............... ....            45
B.  Economic Analysis  ..................             ......      46
C. Risks          ......................* .............           47
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED ON CREDIT CONDITIONSD..........I.......         48
SUPPORTING TABLES, CHARTS, ANNEXES AND MAPS
Table
1.   DADR Staffing:  Kasai Occidental and Project Area  o.......        51
2.   Project Cost Summary (by Year) ...........................         52
3.   Project Cost Summary (by Expenditure Item) ...............         53
4.   Disbursements from IDA Credit and Co-financier loan                 54
5.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule                                    55
6.   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program:
Mechanized Brigade ....................56
7.   Crop Yields Without and With Project .....................          57
8a.  Production Without and With Project: Dibaya Farm Model ...         58
8b.  Production Without and With Project: Dibaya Without
Forest Model .............*......  ..... ........ ..              58
8c.  Production Without and With Project: Demba Farm Model               58
8d.  Production Without and With Project: Kazumba Farm Model            59
8e.  Production Without and With Project: Luiza Farm Model              59
9.   Project Cash Flow ..........-....*..0es .........                  60
10.  Government Project Related Cash Flow                               61
11.  Economic Analysis - Cost and Benefit Streams                       62
12.  Economic Analysis - Sensitivity Analysis   .63



Page No.
Chart
1.  Department of Agriculture and Rural Development ..........     64
2.  PRODALU ...................................65
3.  Project Implementation Schedule ..........................     66
Annex
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 17991 Kasai Occidental: Administrative Divisions
IBRD 17992 Major Transport Arteries and Urban Centers
IBRD 17993 Major Foodcrop Projects in Savannah Belt



(i)
GLOSSARY
ANEZA      National Association of Zairian Enterprises
BAD/FAD    African Development Bank/African Development Fund
BCA        Agricultural Credit Bank
CAPSA      Seed Multiplication Center
CEDERIM    MWEKA Integrated Rural Development Project
DADR       Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
DEDS       Department of Primary and Secondary Education
DESRS      Department of Higher Education and Scientific Research
DTP        Department of Public Works
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
FAC        French Aid and Cooperation Agency
FCD        Development Agreement Funds
FED        European Development Fund
IDA        International Development Association
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
INERA      National Institute for Agronomic Research and Studies
ITA        Agricultural Technical Institute
OR         Roads Authority
PMKO       Kasai Oriental Maize Project
PNE        National Fertilizer Program
PNL        National Legume Program
PNM        National Maize Program
PNR        National Rice Program
PNS        North Shaba Project
PRODALU    Lulua Agricultural Development Project
PRONAM     National Cassava Program
SNCZ       Zairian National Railway Company
SOFIDE     Economic Development and Finance Company



(ii)
ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:            Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
Amount:                 SDR 12.6 million (US $12.5 million equivalcait)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms
Project Description    The Project would increase foodcrop production in
the Lulua and Kananga sub-regions of Kasai
Occidental Province. Project activities would
include: (i) strengthening extension services; (ii)
carrying out field trials; (iii) providing inputs
(improved seeds, tools, fertilizer, insecticide);
(iv) supporting marketing activities of private
traders; (v) selective maintenance of transport
infrastructure; and (vi) training. Consultant and
technical assistance support would be provided.
Project Benefits:      The Project would benefit about 80,000 low-income
farmers in the Project area. Production of maize,
cassava, groundnuts, cowpeas, paddy, and soya bean
would increase substantially, thereby assisting
Zaire in its goal of achieving food self-
sufficiency. Improved communications, resulting
from Project activities, would give area residents
better access to goods and services. Other Project
benefits include stronger agricultural development
services and reduction in the rate of forest
destruction in the Project area through improved
soil conservation practices.
Risks:                 The Project's main risks are those associated
with the overall situation of the Zalrian economy,
including the shortage of qualified local managerial
staff and of local financial resources. The impact
of such risks on Project implementation would be
reduced to a certain extent by (i) the requirement
that key managerial staff with qualifications
satisfactory to IDA be appointed; and (ii) reaching
an agreement with Government on an overall action
program to improve resource allocation and
financial management in the agricultural sector. At
the project level, the most serious risk relates to
the fact that the target population is largely
subsistence oriented, and developing a commercial
production system may take longer than anticipated.



(tiii
Estimated Cost:             Local               Foreign            Total
-US $ million 
Extension                   1.7                 1.0               2.7
Extension Training         0.3                  0.2               0.5
Field Trials               0.3                  0.3               0.6
Seed Farm                  0.2                  0.6               0.8
Input Supply                1.2                 1.9               3.1
Truck Purchase             0.5                  0.8               1.3
Transport Infr.             1.6                 3.1               4.7
Project Mgmt.               1.0                 1.6               2.6
Total Base Costs           6.8                  9.5              16.3
Physical Conting.        0.7                  1.0               1.7
Price Conting.           1.8                  2.1               3.9
Total Project Costs        9.3                 12.6              21.9
(Taxes & Duties)        (0.8)                                  (0.8)
Financing Plan:             US $ Millions                 X of Total Cost
Government                     2.1                             10
IDA                          12.5                              59
IFAD                          6.5                              31
Total (w/o taxes)             21.1                            100
Taxes & duties                 0.8                              4
Total (with taxes)           21.9                             104
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Years         FY 85   FY 86   FY 87   FY 88   FY 89   FY 90
US $ Millions 
Annual                    0.4      1.7     2.9      2.7     3.1      1.7
Cumulative                0.4      2.1     5.0      7.7    10.8    12.5
Rate of Return: 30%
Maps:
IBRD 17991
IBRD 17992
IBRD 17993



ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      The proposed Lulua Agricultural Development Project is one of
several foodcrop production projects supported by IDA in the savanna zones
of Zaire (IBRD Map 17993, para. 1.25). The Project would increase
production of basic foodstuffs through improved extension services,
dissemination of improved technical packages, distribution of inputs,
transport improvements, and market support services. Project activities
are expected to result in greater economic integration in the two Kasai
Provinces, through increased marketing activities stimulated by production
increases and transport improvements.
1.02      The proposed Project was identified by a joint IDA-FAO mission,
and was prepared by staff of the Food and Agriculture Organization's
Cooperative Program (FAO-IBRD CP). The Project proposal was then reviewed
by officials of the relevant Zairian ministries and submitted to IDA for
financing. This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal
mission which visited Zaire in November/December 1983, composed of W. I.
Jones, C. Kimes, B. Rambocus, R. Schaballie (IDA) and R. Morel
(consultant). Representatives of the Zairian Government and of the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) also participated in
mission activities.
1.03      Major changes made to proposals in the preparation report are
aimed at making the proposed project compatible with the existing
administrative structure in the Project area and increasing private sector
involvement in project implementation with an eye to long-term continuity
after external financing ceases. Specifically, these changes involve
reductions in staffing levels, respecting administrative divisions, and
subcontracting farm input distribution to private traders. It was also
decided to include national and regional roads in the transport improvement
program. These changes have been discussed and accepted by Government
officials.
1.04     This would be the eleventh project financed in the agricultural
sector by the Bank Group for a total of US $112.2 million; total costs of
these projects, including cofinancing, amount to US $321.6 million. In
addition, the Bank Group has financed six lines of credit to a
local development finance company, SOFIDE, which included about US $17.0
million for approximately US $24.0 million worth of agricultural
investments. Information on implementation experience with the
agricultural portfolio is provided in paras 1.26 - 1.28.



-2-
B. The Agricultural Sector
General
1.05      Zaire covers about 2.3 million km2, and has considerable
agricultural potential. It is estimated that about 30% to 35% of the total
land area is suitable for agricultural development, although only about 5%
is currently under cultivation or developped as ranches. Straddling both
sides of the equator, the country falls into four major ecological zones:
(i) rain forest ('cuvette centrale"); (ii) mixed forest and savannah; (iii)
savannah belts; and (iv) tropical uplands. Rural population density is
highest in the savannah belts and tropical uplands, and the population
growth rate is estimated at between 2.2% to 2.8% per annum. Rural per
capita income, about US $110, is among the lowest in Africa. A wide
variety of agricultural commodities are grown in Zaire. The major staple
food crops are cassava, maize, rice, bananas, and beans. The most
important industrial crops are cotton, palm oil, and sugarcane, while
export crops include coffee, tea, rubber, and cocoa. The livestock
sub-sector comprises cattle as well as small ruminants and poultry; insects
and fish are another important source of animal protein for the local
population. Zaire's forestry resources are conside-able but largely
untapped.
Production Trends
1.06      Agriculture provides direct employment and support to 70% to 75Z
of Zaire's active population, as well as to an additional 10% employed in
the agro-industrial processing . However, its share of GDP has stagnated
in recent years at around 30%, while agricultural exports have decreased in
both absolute and relative terms. In 1968, an estimated 433,000 t of
agricultural commodities were exported, representing about 18% of the value
of total exports; in 1981, these figures had decreased to 146,000 t and
10%, respectively. During this same period, agricultural imports increased
and food imports in particular, with maize, wheat, meat, fish, and sugar
being major import items. This disappointing performance stems from a
variety of factors, including: (i) difficult transport conditions; (ii)
inadequate or unclear marketing, pricing, and monetary policies; (iii) weak
agricultural institutions; and (iv) limited resources devoted to the
sector.
1.07      Recognizing the adverse  mpact Government policies and weak
sector management were having on sector performance, the Government began
implementing an Agricultural Recovery Plan in 1982 (para. 1.23)
which addressed major weaknesses outlined above. Although it is too early
to draw definite conclusions on the impact of this program (data are
incomplete and often unreliable), it appears that agricultural production
is recovering, albeit slowly. Foodcrop production appears to have grown
roughly in line with rural population growth; encouraging production
increases have been recorded 'or industrial crops such as cotton, sugar,
and palm oil; and marketed meat production has shown a sharp increase.
Within the foodcrop subsector, maize production increases have been
particularly strong (about 10% in 1983 over 1982 levels), which should have
a positive impact on the food import bill.



-3-
Structure of Production
1.08      Modern (large-farm) and traditional (small-farm) production
systems coexist in Zaire's agricultural sector. About 40% of agriculture's
share of GDP is contributed by the modern sector, and about 60% by the
traditional/subsistence sector. The large-farm sector is composed of
large, corporation-owned plantations as well as individually owned farms
and ranches. The principal commodities produced are palm oil, sugar,
rubber, tobacco, coffee, cocoa, and cattle. Modern sector output has
declined since independence due to nationalization measures in the
mid-1970s, the general economic crisis and shortage of foreign exchange,
and the low priority given to agricultural investment by the Government.
The small-farm sector comprises an estimated 3 to 4 million farming units.
A bush-fallow production system predominates, and farming techniques rely
on hand labor and simple tools. The principal crops grown are cassava,
maize, rice, bananas, beans, cotton, groundnuts, coffee and tropical
fruits. The traditional sector also accounts for about 60% of the national
cattle herd.
Sector Issues
1.09      The Government of Zaire has in the past sought to regulate and
control the marketing and pricing of many agricultural products. However,
Government measures have often had a negative impact on production and
marketing, as local authorities frequently intervened to hold prices down
and to impede the circulation of goods across regional borders.
Recognizing the costs of contradictory and unclear policies in this area,
the Government began a gradual process of liberalization in 1981,
culminating in 1983 in the complete freeing of producer prices and
abolition of local authorities' rights to intervene in this area.
Complementing price liberalization efforts, the Government also moved to
eliminate regional barriers to trade, freeing the circulation of
agricultural goods within the country. While these measures are too recent
to be evaluated effectively, preliminary information indicates that they
are having a powerful impact on production and marketing, particularly in
major surplus and deficit areas. For instance, the opening up of the Shaba
(deficit) market, combined with the recent devaluation of the Zairian
currency, is stimulating maize marketing activities in the Kasals and
driving up farm-gate prices in these areas. Beef marketing and production
activities are similarly benefiting from the liberalized environment. This
process of market integration is expected to play an important role in
stimulating production increases in the proposed Project area (paras. 6.02
and 6.04).
1.10      Another issue which has particular significance for agricultural
development in Zaire is the role of the Agricultural Extension Service.
Since its establishment before Independence, the Agricultural Extension
Service has operated as an enforcer of norms set by the Department of
Agriculture (DADR); farmers who did not cultivate the surface area
stipulated by DADR were (and are) subject to fines. Known as "imposed
cultivation', this practice was originally introduced to encourage the
production of export crops such as cotton; it has persisted to varying



degrees in different parts of the country, particularly where there is
competition between cash and food crops. This approach has resulted in the
farmers' aversion to dealing with extension agents and to accepting the
technical packages they try to impose. This issue has been the subject of
continuous discussion between the Bank and Government, but there has not
yet been a satisfactory resolution of the problem at the national level.
The issue of imposed cultivation was raised again at negotiations and
assurances were obtained that this practice will not be continued, first
in the Project area and subsequently throughout the whole country (para
4.06).
C. Agricultural Services
1.11      The principal Government agencies which provide services to
support agricultural and rural development include: the Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development; the Department of Primary and Secondary
Education and the Department of Higher Education and Scientific Research; a
number of parastatal and mixed-capital companies; the Department of Public
Works and its operational arm, the Roads Authority; and regional and local
authorities. In addition to these public sector entities, the private
sector is playing an increasingly important role in providing extension and
road maintenance services.
Sector Management
1.12      The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (DADR) is
responsible for agricultural policy; extension, veterinary, and research
services; and technical supervision of parastatal institutions in the
sector. It has broad responsibility within the Government for sector
planning and for the preparation, implementation and supervision of
agricultural projects. Services provided have generally been weak, and
DADR has traditionally been unable to carry out its project management
responsibilities. Factors contributing to this situation have included
lack of trained staff, low salary levels, insufficient funds, inadequate
physical resources, and weak management systems.
1.13      To address these deficiencies and to make DADR a more effective
and efficient agency for planning and managing key services and projects, a
number of important steps have been taken to reorganize DADR (beginning in
June 1982). These steps have included: (i) reorganization of DADR along
department lines at headquarters 1/ and definition of responsibilities for
each of these units; (ii) reduction in DADR personnel rolls by 7,000 2/,
combined with salary increases and performance bonuses; and (iii)
reorganization of regional staff, focusing on the coordination of sectoral
activities at the regional and sub-regional levels. Implementation of
1/ There are eight departments: Studies and Planning; General Services;
Project Administration; Crop Production; Livestock Production; Markets,
Prices, and Seasonal Credit; Rural Works; and Rural Promotion.
2/ DADR's staffing now totals about 9,000.



-5-
these measures (known as the mise en place-) is well underway, and
mid-level managers have been appointed to all departments.
1.14      In an effort to strengthen sectoral planning and resource
management capabilities, a number of additional steps have been taken,
including: (i) establishment of a Planning Unit responsible for overall
policy analysis and advice to the Minister of Agriculture on key strategic
questions; (ii) creation of working groups to review key sector issues
propose action measures, and monitor the impact of reforms undertaken i/;
(iii) institutica of a regular review system for on-going projects, linked
to periodic updating of the agricultural investment program; and (iv)
introduction of a regular review process to examine the functioning of
financial and budgetary management systems. Support for these new groups
and activities is being provided under the IDA-supported Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1244-ZR) in the form of senior advisors in the
areas of planning, project management, training, and financial management.
Agricultural Education
1.15      Agricultural education falls within the jurisdiction of two
departments: the Department of Primary and Secondary Education (DEPS) and
the Department of Higher Education and Scientific Research (DESRS). DEPS
Is responsible for providing vocational and technical training to students
through the secondary level, while DES is responsible for faculties at the
university and post-graduate level. A substantial network of agricultural
education institutions has developed over the years, and a variety of
agricultural training programs are now available for students who wish to
go into extension or research work. Graduates are ranked at four levels of
expertise, depending on the length and type of program: the AO (engineer)
level corresponds to five years of university training, Al (graduate) to
three years, A2 (-diplomfsis) to a high school degree in agricultural
humanities, and A3 (technician) to post-primary training at an agricultural
institute. An AA (agricultural assistant) has little formal training.
Generally, training programs are not well adapted to the needs of the
agricultural sector, and graduates freqtently require considerable
additional training in order to perform adequately. Teaching institutions
have suffered from budgetary shortages, with the result that their physical
plant is generally obsolete, inadequate, and deteriorating.
Agricultural Research
1.16      The National Institute for Agronomic Research and Studies (INERA)
is an autonomous institute within DESRS responsible for agricultural
research on food crops, perennial crops, and livestock. It operates 20
field stations, six of which are main stations and 14 are secondary. INERA
suffers from weak management, lack of funds, irregular disbursement of
3/ Working groups have been established in the following areas: pricing
and marketing; incentives to private investment in agriculture;
agricultural credit; and research, training, extension, and input
supply.



- 6 -
available funds, an inadequate salary structure, and a deteriorating
physical infrastructure. Staffing is also extremely unbalanced, with few
qualified researchers and excess non-research personnel. In such
conditions, research activities have been extremely limited. The
Government, with assistance from ISNAR, is in the process of elaborating a
long-term development program for agricultural research, which is being
funded by US bilateral aid.
1.17      DADR operates specific commodity-research programs for the major
foodcrops, in collaboration with international research institutes and
development agencies. The National Maize Program (PNM) which received in
the past assistance from CIMMYT 41, has as its objective the development
of high yielding maize varieties, identification of improved farming
techniques, and training of extension personnel. The N4ational Cassava
Prograr (PRONAM), assisted by IITA 51, is focussing on developing and
disseminating high yielding cassava varieties which are resistant to the
principal pests and diseases. The National Rice Program (PNR) is
introducing new irrigated and upland rice varieties to improve the quality
and yield of locally cultivated rice; Chinese bilateral assistance is
supporting work on irrigated varieties. The National LegWme Program (PNL)
focuses on developing and adapting high-yielding varieties of legumes
(particularly beans and soya) which are important in the diet.
Inplementation experience with these various programs has been mixed, due
to funding problems and high staff turnover. Noteworthy successes have
been the selection and diffusion of a number of excellent maize varieties
by P1NM, and PRONAM is on the point of releasing improved cassava varieties.
1.18      The National Fertilizer Program (PNE), established in 1972, is an
applied research/extension effort which seeks to increase fertilizer use on
the principal smallholder crops (maize, cotton, groundnuts, beans, etc.).
The Program is carried out in collaboration with the FAO, supported by
Belgian bilateral assistance. In addition to the national headquarters,
regional offices have been set up in five of Zaire's regions 6, to manage
field operations. These offices, staffed by DADR and FAO staff, organize
trials and demonstration plots, provide training and operational support to
extension agents, and manage a fertilizer distribution program. A PNE
regional office was established in the Project area in 1981 (para. 2.25).
Agricultural Credit
1.19      Agricultural credit is not well developed in Zaire, and the lack
of credit and foreign exchange for productive enterprises is an important
obstacle to development of the sector. Agricultural credit for large
4/ Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo (International
Center for Maize and Wheat Improvement).
5/ International Institute for Tropical Agriculture.
6/ Bas Zaire, Bandundu, Haut-Zaire, Kasai Occidental and Shaba.



-7-
operators is currently extended by six commercial banks and by SOFIDE
(Soci&te financiere de developpement economique), a development finance
company established in 1970. The eligibility criteria applied by the
commercial banks and SOFIDE block most smallholders from access to formal
credit. Recognizing the need to address the credit requirements of
small-scale agriculture, the Government established a new Agricultural
Credit Bank (BCA) in October 1982. The BCA has recently begun operations,
and is engaging primarily in short-term financing at relatively low
interest rates. Another source of funds for agricultural investment is a
para-fiscal system known as -Development Agreement Funds" (FCD). FCD are
raised through a special sales tax on agro-industrial products (beer,
textiles, etc.), and are used to finance productive and infrastructure
investments agreed upon between Government and private firms. The system
offers an interesting vehicle for increasing available finance for the
agricultural sector, but its impact on company finances has not been
thoroughly examined.
Road Construction and Maintenance
1.20      The state of Zaire's vast road network (145,000 km) is critical
to effective marketing operations and agricultural production incentives.
The key government institution in this area is the Department of Public
Works (DTP), which is responsible for national policy and sector planning
for road infrastructure development. Zaire's road network is divided into
three categories: (i) -national- or major roads (RN) (21,000 km); (ii)
"regional" or secondary roads (RR) (37,000 km); and (iii) "local interest-
or rural roads (RIL) (87,000 km). Operational responsibility for RN and
RR, including construction, rehabilitation and maintenance activities, is
entrusted to an autonomous public sector enterprise, the Roads Authority
(OR). Due to limited funds and operational capacity, OR concentrates its
activities on selected RN, with the consequence that many RN and RR are in
poor condition and deteriorating rapidly; this poses serious obstacles to
agricultural marketing activities.
1.21      Local authorities are officially responsible for maintaining
local roads, but they have neither the technical capacity nor the financial
resources to carry this out effectively. To address the rural road
problems, therefore, DADR has financed and operated a Rural Road
Maintenance Program for the last three years; it has relied primarily on
sub-contracting arrangements with private firms or individuals. In certain
cases, agricultural projects have taken over responsibility for managing
maintenance programs for roads in their respective project areas. Some
private companies also maintain rural roads under FCD agreements (para.
1.19). An ongoing study of organizational arrangements in the road sector
will present recommendations on institutional responsibilities for rural
road rehabilitation and maintenance; identifying and putting in place a
coherent system for assuring these functions will be given top priority in
Bank-Government sector dialogue during the proposed Project implementation
period.



- 8-
Regional and Local Authorities
1.22      Zaire is divided into eight regions (excluding Kinshasa), each of
which is divided into sub-regions. The sub-regions are further divided
into zones, the smallest administrative unit. The Ministry of Territorial
Administration is responsible for local administration and works through
its appointed officers: Regional, Sub-regional and Zone Commissioners
(Zone Commissioners are also elected officials). These officials
coordinate the work of the staff of the technical ministries assigned to
their jurisdiction. Customary and elected officials at the collectivity
level play an important role in allocating land and in organizing commnity
development activities. As mentioned above (para. 1.21), they are also
responsible for maintenance of rural roads (at least in theory). When
supported and supervised properly (for example, by development projects),
the involvement of local leaders in generating community commitment to
these activities can be quite effective.
D. Government Strategy for Agricultural Development
1.23      The Agricultural Recovery Plan, presented in a report prepared in
1981-82, constitutes the basic Government strategy for agricultural
development in Zaire. The chief objectives of the strategy are: (i) to
make the country self-sufficient in food crops; (ii) to increase the
production of crops used as raw materials by local industries; and (iii) to
increase export crop production. For the short- and medium-term, the
priorities will be foodcrop development through recovery of smallholder
production and rehabilitation and maintenance of existing production
capacity. Measures designed to achieve the Government's objectives in the
sector have focussed on establishing clear procedures for cabinet level
coordination of agricultural policy, reinforcing the capacity of DADR to
plan, prepare and implement projects more effectively. and reinforcing its
capacity to address key policy problems more systematically. Action on
many of these issues has been described earlier, such as pricing and
marketing liberalization (para. 1.09), reorganization of the Department of
Agriculture (para. 1.13), and reinforcing DADR's sector planning and policy
analysis capabilities (para. 1.14). Preparation of a three year investment
program (1982-84) and strengthening the links between the annual budget
exercise and investment planning are also important steps in increasing the
productive impact of public funds channelled to the sector. Although it is
difficult to assess the impact of recent measures on agricultural
production at this early stage, the Plan represents realistic and
significant steps to address the most important institutional and policy
issues which have impeded production in the past. It is the Government's
intention to prepare a five-year global plan (1985-89) to provide a longer
term perspective and to integrate sectoral planning exercises.



- 9 -
E. Bank Group Support for Agriculture
1.24      Bank Group support for the development of Zairian agriculture has
included sector work, project financing, and a sustained dialogue with the
Government to define and address more coherently key policy issues (such as
pricing, marketing, incentives for private sector development, foreign
exchange allocation, credit, research and training). The Bank Group has
also played an important role in helping the Government coordinate the
activities of external financing agencies in the sector by taking a
leadership role in setting up cofinancing arrangements 7/, and by
organizing and chairing, under the aegis of the Consultative  Group (CG),
the 1977 Working Group on agriculture and the 1982 Special Meeting on
agriculture.
1.25      The Bank Group has financed a total of ten projects in the
agricultural sector during the past eleven years; the proposed Project
would be the eleventh (para. 1.04). Past lending operations have addressed
the rehabilitation and expansion needs of modern agricultural enterprises
(both private and mixed-capital companies) as well as the development of
basic services for smallholders. The Bank Group's agricultural portfolio
has concentrated on several subsectors: livestock (Livestock I, Ituri
Livestock Development, Ituri Northeast Rural Development), industrial crops
(Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar, Palm Oil Rehabilitation, Cotton Rehabilitation I and
II) and smallholder food crops (Kasai Oriental Maize, Kwango-Kwilu
Technical Assistance). Technical assistance support for institutional
strengthening and policy reform has also been provided through a
free-standing project.
1.26      Implementation experience with these operations has been mixed.
On the one hand, the production impact of a number of projects has been
considerable, and project activities have contributed to improvements in
sector policy and institutional arrangements. On the other hand, projects
have commonly suffered from weak management, inadequate budget allocations,
shortage of qualified staff, and non-competitive public sector salary
scales. Government attempts to nationalize major commercial enterprises in
the mid-70s also had a tremendously disruptive effect on several
operations. Projects implemented by mixed-capital companies, with private
sector- management, have not encountered the management problems alluded to
above, but have been more seriously affected by sector policies and Zaire's
foreign exchange shortage.
1.27      One underlying feature of Bank Group operations in the sector has
been the effort to identify management approaches that work effectively in
the local context. As a result, a number of management arrangements have
been utilized including classical Government management units (PMKO),
mixed-capital companies with joint public/private sector management,
(Kwango-Kwilu, sugar) and mixed capital companies with private sector
71/ Eight out of ten IDA-supported projects in the sector have involved
co-financing.



- 10 -
management (cotton, palm oil). Implementation experience has shown that
each approach has its advantages and disadvantages, and each of these
options is likely to be used in the future, as local circumstances
warrant. The focus of future Bank-supported operations will be on: (i)
improving the policy and institutional framework in the agricultural
sector; and (ii) increasing the production of food crops as well as
industrial and export crops. Intensive supervision of ongoing agricultural
projects will continue to be a key element of the Bank Group support to the
sector.
1.28      A Project Completion Report (Report No. 4863, dated Dec. 30,
1983) has been prepared for the First Livestock Development Project (Cr.
398-ZR), IDA's first agricultural operation in Zaire. The Project's
primary obiectives were to (a) increase incremental beef production (2000
t/year at full development), (b) build a nucleus of well run ranches, and
(c) provide training for Zairian staff in ranch management. The Project
achievements fell far short of appraisal expectations in terms of
production, physical works, and financial and economic returns.
Institutional development was mixed, and financial management was a
perpetual problem. Causes of the disappointing implementation performance
included heavy cattle losses and low fertility; low administered cattle
and meat prices; frequent changes in the role of the implementing agency;
poor consultant performance; difficulties in recruiting staff;
non-implementation of staff training programs; and low Government
allocations and delays in releasing local funds. Project implementation
was also affected by unusually difficult external circumstances (eg,
military upheaval in the Project area, the deteriorating economic
environment) and by rapid shifts in Government policy (eg. zairianization,
nationalization, privatization). Project supervision experience suggests
that certain issues -- such as pricing and budgetary allocations - are
more effectively addressed on a sectoral, rather than a project, basis.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General
2.01      The Project area is located in the Lulua and Kananga sub-regions
of Kasai Occidental Province. The Lulua sub-region is divided into five
administrative zones: Dibaya, Dimbelenge, Demba, Kazumba and Luiza. These
five zones are subdivided into 33 collectivities, of which 20 are included
in the Project area. These 20 collectivities cover about 29,150 km2 (or
about 50% of the sub-region's total surface area) and had a population of
about 975,000 in 1982 (about two-thirds of the sub-region's total
population). The Kananga sub-region is divided into five zones (Kananga,
Katoka, Lukonga, Ndesha and Nganza), which are highly urbanized due to the
presence of the provincial capital city of Kananga. However, within these
five zones, three collectivities are predominantly rural and are included
in the Project area. These three rural collectivities have a surface area
of about 250 km2 (or two-thirds of Kananga sub-region's total area) and a
population of about 75,000 in 1982 (or 15Z of the sub-region's total
population). The combined surface area of the 23 collectivities included
in the Project area is about 29,400 km2, and the combined population is
estimated at about 1.1 million people. This represents 50% of the total



- 11 -
surface area of the two sub-regions and about 55% of their combined
populations. The location of the Project area within Kasai Occidental
Province and the principal administrative divisions are shown on IBRD Map
17991.
2.02      The Project area is one of the poorer areas of Zaire and per
capita income is low (para. 2.08). Agricultural activities are the primary
source of income, as industrial and mining activities are limited. Food
crop productivity is low, due to soil conditions, primitive technology and
degenerated seeds; as a result, much of the rural population suffers from
malnutrition. Shortage of foodstuffs is a regional problem, and it is
estimated that the Project area and surrounding provinces (Kasai
Occidental, Kasai Oriental and Shaba) account for the bulk of the national
maize deficit (about 75%) and for about one-third of the paddy deficit. In
the past, part of this deficit was met by imports, but due to the 1983
devaluation, imports have become mach more expensive, and quantities are
declining. This changed import situtation, combined with liberalization of
marketing and pricing policies (para. 1.09), is contributing to increased
demand for locally produced food crop commodities to supply the mining
cities of Mbuji Mayi (Kasai Oriental), Tshikapa (Kasai Occidental) and
Kolwezi/Likasi (Shaba). The Project area is strategically located astride
the main road and railway axes to supply these consumptions centers, and
marketing activities have already begun to intensify during the past year.
B. Physical Resources
2.03    The traditional climax vegetation of the entire Project area is
forest. Very little of that forest remains, however, as the traditional
farming system destroys forest by felling and burning to create savanna
(para. 2.09). Where forests still remain, they are economically
significant as a source of fuelwood, building poles and preservers of soil
fertility. The area's grasslands have some potential as grazing land and
support about 40,000 cattle in a small number of large herds. However, the
potential of this resource is limited by the prevalence of trypanosomiasis
and by the very low carrying capacity of the grasslands, whose species are
of low nutritive value.
2.04      About 80% of Project area soils are derived from sandy
sediments. On the plateaux, soils are generally under savanna and are
characterized by low fertility, low water retention capacity and moderate
to high acidity (pH of 4.5 to 6.0). Their humus content and productivity
decrease when they are intensively cropped and the bush fallow period is
reduced. Maize can be grown on these soils with fertilization (either
mineral, manure or household wastes). The PNE has shown that maize
responds well to fertilization in acid depleted soils (para 2.25). Along
valleys and slopes, where there are relics of the original forest, the
soils are richer in humus, clay and nutrients and have a lower acidity
level. They are therefore more productive and preferred by farmers. The
remaining 20% of the Project area soils are derived from schist or
quartzite materials and are somewhat richer in clay, nitrogen and
phosphates. A higher proportion of forest remains on these soils, also
contributing to their higher productivity.



- 12 -
2.05      The sandy sediment soils described above are concentrated in the
zones of Dibaya, Dimbelenge, Demba and Kazumba, and in the Kananga
sub-region. The schist/quartzite soils, covering about 20% of the Project
area, are to be found primarily in Luiza zone. The proportion of forest
and savanna lands to be found in the different zones varies tremendously,
as do farming practices. Principal characteristics within the Project area
are summarized below:
(i)     Dibaya Zone:  Availability of forest land is extremely
limited, and some farmers have only savanna soils; length of fallow periods
is decreasing, adversely affecting productivity; farmers are relying
increasingly on house plots.
(ii)     Kananga sub-region:  Most closely resembles Dibaya zone
characteristics; soils have been depleted by overcropping to supply the
urban center.
(iii)     Demba Zone:  Mostly savanna but with remnants of
forest, the fallow period is five to ten years; house plots are becoming
important.
iv)      Dimbelenge Zone:  Combines Demba and Dibaya zone
characteristics.
(v)     Kazumba Zone:  Natural environment is similar to that
of Demba, with greater abundance of forest lands; house plot cultivation is
limited.
(vi)     Luiza Zone:  Forest land is readily available and soils
are better than elsewhere in the Project area; house plot farming is
minimal.
2.06      Annual rainfall is between 1,400 and 1,700 m, distributed
bi-modally to permit two annual cropping seasons: the main (or 'first-)
season from September to January (ca. 900 mm of rainfall) and the small (oc
"second)" season from February to May (ca. 600 mm of rainfall).  Rains are
well enough distributed and regular enough that drought stress should not
be a major problem for annual crops (this is less true for the second
season). However, on the area's predominantly sandy soils, water holding
capacity is reduced to the point where short breaks in the rains constitute
a drought problem, especially where cropping has reduced the humus content.
C. The Farming Population and Farming Practices
2.07      The bulk of the Project area population is Bena Lulua, who speak
chiLuba.  The southern part of the Project area (Luiza Zone and parts of
Kazumba and Dibaya Zones) is peopled by baSalampasu, baKete and a few
baBindji. These peoples are more closely related to the baLunda of western
Shaba than to the Bena Lulua, but they use chiLuba as a vernacular language
and have a long history of not entirely unfriendly relations with their
more numerous northern neighbors. The non-Bena Lulua parts of the Project
generally correspond to the areas of lower population density and to better
soil fertility. Among these populations, the transition from hunting to



- 13 -
farming is more recent and less complete. Customs differ in important
ways. The baSalampasu, in particular, farm more exclusively by burning
forest and farming on the residual fertility than the Bena Lulua (who have
less forest). They and the baKete are more matrilineal; husbands and wives
keep their own property in a marriage, the wife passing it to her sons and
the husband to his sisters' sons. This makes it difficult for family
members to farm together and greatly complicates investments, such as
"family" ownership of ox-plowing equipment and oxen.   Sex division of
labor also varies among these tribal groups.
2.08      The Project area's population of 1.1 million gives it an overall
population density of about 36/km2 -- well above the rule-of-thumb
threshold for practicing bush-fallow agriculture on the savanna without
mining soil fertility (20/km2). However, population density varies within
the Project area; it is highest in the rural collectivities of Kananga and
in Dibaya Zone, and is lowest in Dimbelenge, Luiza and Demba Zones. It is
estimated that about 82% of this population (or about 865,000 people) live
in agricultural households, with each household averaging just over 61
persons. This results in a total of about 133,000 farming units in the
Project area. All members of a nuclear or joint family are considered to
constitute a single farming unit, even though there are degrees of farming
togetherness between husband, wife, and children (para 2.07). It is
estimated that the value of typical farm output ranges from Z 18,000 (US
$600) to Z 20,700 (US $690); this is equivalent to between $90 and $105 per
person. Per capita income is less than the national average for rural
inhabitants since only part of farm output is sold for cash (para. 1.05).
2.09      The farming practices among these 133,000 units vary greatly,
largely as a function of the amount and quality of land available, social
customs, and accessibility to markets. A Bena Lulua family in a
high density part of Dibaya Zone without ready access to forest will:
devote considerable effort to its house plot, keep its goats tethered to
protect house plot crops, intercrop cassava and cowpeas or groundnuts on
sandy savanna soils before fallowing, and collect a few palm fruits to
extract the oil and sell it for cash. A baSalampasu family in a
low-density part of Luiza Zone with ready access to forest will fell and
burn forest for almost all its agriculture, growing rice or maize and then
a legume and cassava. It will practice almost no savanna agriculture and
have little or no house plot, allowing its goats to run free; the men will
do a lot of hunting. Between these extremes, a number of variations exist;
common characteristics are described below.
2.10      Farms are small.  The area under crops per farm at any one time
is about 4 ha (the two seasons combined). Moreover, anywhere from 6 to 15
ha is being fallowed at any time. Areas cultivated use only about half the
family labor available. Nevertheless, farm size is limited by labor in
bottleneck periods, such as land preparation and planting when the big
rains begin and by labor efficiency, which, in turn, is determined by the
tools available -- hoes, machetes and hachets -- and by cultural
practices. The principal starchy staple is cassava, which accounts for 60%
to 75% of land use followed by maize and rice. Principal legumes are
cowpeas and groundnuts; soya and voandzou beans are minor crops. A variety
of vegetables and spices are grown or collected, principal!7 amaranth,



- 14 -
cassava leaves, and capsicum. Oil palms produce enough oil for local
demand and for some export by bicycle or truck to Kananga, Tshikapa and
Kasai Oriental. Goats, fowl and game provide an important diet supplement,
mainly for important occasions, and constitute the only practical form of
saving.
2.11      Farming methods are notably unsophisticated compared to those of
neighbors in Kasai Oriental or Bandundu, farming under similar conditions.
Associations that would improve soil cover and retard soil leaching,
erosion and humus loss, such as associating legumes with grains or cassava,
are practiced only sporadically. Consequently, soil degradation is much
more rapid than it need be for the results obtained.
D. Institutional Infrastructure
2.12      Two principal public institutions affect the rural population in
the Project area: the Government Administration and the Department of
Agriculture. A number of other public and private organizations also
provide services in various parts of the Project area. The activities of
these institutions are described below.
Government Administration
2.13      The local Government administration in Kasai Occidental is headed
by the Regional Commissioner, appointed by the President of the Republic.
Administrative staff and police are organized at the regional,
sub-regional, zone and collectivity levels (para. 1.22). Officials in
charge at each level are responsible for coordinating and monitoring
development activities within their respective jurisdictions.
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
2.14      The Department of Agriculture in Kasai Occidental is in the
process of being reorganized as specified in the "mise en place' (para.
1.13). Under this reform program, staff numbers are being reduced and a
more systematic coordination mechanism is being introduced at the principal
administrative levels: region, sub-region and zone. This mechanism
consists of the appointment of an Inspector at each level, responsible for
coordinating and reporting on the activities of DADR staff under his
jurisdiction. Three major services operate in the field: agricultural
production, livestock production and health, and rural development; the
majority of field staff are in the agricultural production service (about
60%). Staffing levels for Kasai Occidental as a whole and for the Project
area are shown in Table 1.
2.15      The services rendered to farmers by the Agriacltural Production
Service in the Project area are minimal. The concept of extension, of
visiting farmers to give advice and to convince them to try innovations, is
foreign to DADR field staff. The village-level worker ("agricultural
monitor") is exactly that -- a monitor who enforces rules, levies fines,



- 15 -
and makes reports on cultivators, areas cultivated, and crops produced (see
para 1.10). The level of formal training of this staff is less than what
would be desirable. More important, however, once in post, they are little
supervised. They have, for the most part, no vehicle to get around; and
they are ill-paid, so that they must live partly off the land and off the
farmers that they are, in principle, supposed to help.
Agricultural Research
2.16     .No formal agricultural research is or has been carried out in the
Project area, other than the trials carried out by the PNE (see para.
2.25). The Project area has always been considered to be covered by
research done at Ngandajika Station of INERA in Kasai Oriental, which is
about 75 km east of the Project area and has the same ecological conditions
as the corresponding portion of the Project area. In fact, before 1960,
the results of Ngandajika research were applied not only in the Project
area, but over a wide range of derived savannas both south and north of the
Congo rain forest, including areas as far afield as the Central African
Republic. Ngandajika was a major station; while it has suffered from the
same difficulties that have plagued agricultural research everywhere in
Zaire (see para 1.16), the station has continued to function to a very
limited extent, most notably as an antenna of the national maize and
cassava programs (see ,ara 1.17).
Agricultural Education
2.17      Three Agricultural Technical Institutes (ITAs) operate in the
Project area, at Tshibashi, Kamponde and Salushimba. They are joint
ventures between the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Kananga and the
Government. ITA Tshibashi (Kananga Zone), which also receives Belgian
technical and financial assistance, currently has 195 students; ITA
Salushimba (Luiza Zone), which shares its buildings with a CAPSA (see para
2.18), has 140; and ITA Kamponde (Dibaya Zone), the oldest of the three and
once the center for agricultural-development thinking in the Kasais, has
about 300. The ITA diplomes have degrees in agricultural humanities (A2)
or are agricultural technicians (A3).
Input Supply
2.18      Distribution channels for tools, improved seed, and fertilizers
are not well developed in the Project area. Farm tools are produced by
local blacksmiths on a limited basis; private traders and religious
missions are also involved in this trade, selling both domestically
manufactured and (sometimes) imported implements. Planting seed is
generally held over from the previous season's harvest, and productivity is
low. Two Centers for the Adaptation and Production of Improved Seeds
(CAPSAs) are operated by the Department of Agriculture, one located at
Pania Santu (Dibaya Zone), the other at Salushimba (Luiza Zone). These
centers were constructed in the 1950s and were once well equipped and
financed. Currently there is no budgetary support for seed production
operations, and little working machinery remains. Under existing
conditions, CAPSA produce cannot be considered improved seed. Fertilizer



- 16 -
has recently been introduced under the auspices of a public fertilizer
program (PNE, para 2.25), which is currently the only source of this
input; quantities distributed are small. Local traders are interested in
handling farm inputs as part of their normal business; they have been
hampered in previous efforts by non-availibility of such goods.
Credit Institutions
2.19      The Central Bank (Banque du Zaire) and the commercial People's
Bank both have branches in Kananga. In late 1983, SOFIDE also opened a
regional office in Kananga, to handle operations for the two Kasais.
Banking facilities in the interior of the Project area are limited; the
People's Bank has a branch office at Tshimbulu, administrative capital of
the Lulua sub-region. These credit institutions lend almost exclusively to
large operators and agro-industrial firms operating in the Project area.
Information on informal credit systems is limited, but suggests that they
are not well developed in the area; informal credit transactions appear to
take place almost exclusively within the extended family.
Transport Infrastructure
2.20      The road network in the Project area includes 892 km of National
and Regional Roads (RN and RR) and about 1700 km of rural roads (RIL). The
state of thi8 road network is extremely poor due to inadequate funding
being devoted to its maintenance and particularly difficult soil
conditions. As a result, road traffic has declined in recent years,
vehicle operating costs are exorbitant, and a good part of the RIL network
has been abandonned (roads are difficult to find and many small bridges and
ferries are out of service).
2.21      As explained earlier (paras 1.20-1.21), OR is responsible for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of the RN and RR network and local
authorities, for the RIL network. OR's organization in the Project area is
headed by the Regional Director and Regional Technical Director, and
includes a "Production Unit" (an autonomous mechanized brigade) for the
Lulua Sub-region. A major OR facility for servicing heavy machinery
operating in the two Kasais is also located at Kananga. The Lulua
Production Unit is far short of the material and operating budget necessary
to maintain the RN and RR network: over the next few years, OR plans to
provide minimal mechanical maintenance on about 350 ki, with manual
maintenance by subcontractors on about 465 km.
2.22      Maintenance of the rural road network ("cantonnage manuel") has
been similarly constrained by 4nadequate funding, and sub-contracts to
local authorities, missions, and traders have covered only a small
proportion of the total network. More seriously, supervision of the
maintenance work has been virtually non-existant and the technical quality
has been unsatisfactory in many cases. Rehabilitation of ferries and
bridges has been extremely limited in the Project area; most work has been
carried out by the Catholic missions with help from local communities,
although OR and private traders also participate from time to time.



- 17 -
2.23      The national railway line (SNCZ) runs through the Project area
from northwest to southeast for a distance of about 275 km. It connects
the major river port of Ilebo to Kananga and from there continues on to the
mining cities of Shaba. Rail depots exist along the line at regular
intervals, providing adequate storage for off-loading of commodities (such
as agricultural inputs) prior to transfer to road transport.
E. Development Programs
2.24      A number of development efforts are underway within or near to
the proposed Project area, with support from bilateral, multilateral, and
non-profit organizations. The activities and implementation experience of
these different programs is described below.
2.25      National Fertilizer Program - Kasai Occidental (PNE-K.O).  The
Kasai Occidental Regional Office of the National Fertilizer Programme (see
para 1.18) began operations in 1981; the area covered by PNE-KO has been
smaller than the proposed Project area, including primarily parts of Demba
and Dibaya. The program is managed by the DADR Agricultural
Production Service, in collaboration with FAO technical support. DADR
"agricultural monitors" have been trained by PNE staff to play an
extension role; these extension agents carry out trials and
demonstrations (based on the results of the PNE Kasai Oriental Program),
and organize farmer groups for the purchase of fertilizer and improved
seed. Under the PNE-KO program, farmers have purchased these inputs on a
cash basis. The results of PNE-KO's trials and demonstration program
during the past two years are not conclusive due to exceptional climatic
conditions (drought) and, in some cases, an inadequate statistical base.
In general, results indicate a strong and consistent response to the
standard fertilizer doses used in Kasai Oriental for maize, but a varied
response on groundnut and soya. The 1984 trials program has been extended
to Luiza Zone under PPF financing. It was agreed at appraisal that trials
undertaken would no longer be limited to fertilizer usage but would also
include the major extension themes to be disseminated under the Project
(density, planting dates, hoeing and weeding, etc.). Arrangements are
being made to assure continuity of PNE-KO operations in the Project area
until the proposed Credit becomes effective (estimated early 1985,.
Thereafter, the PNE-KO program would be integrated into the larger project.
2.26      The Kasai-Oriental Maize Project (PMKO, Cr.1040-ZR), located in
Kasai Oriental region, borders the proposed Project area along its eastern
boundary. The Project receives financial support from the Government, the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), IDA, and the
African Development Bank (BAD). PMKO activities began in 1981, and built
on experience gained with previous development projects and programs in the
area. Project activities have focussed on agricultural extension, input
supply, road infrastructure improvements, and credit operations. All
agricultural extension workers in the Project area, including the FAO
fertilizer programme staff, have been integrated into and transferred to
PMKO. The extension program has been designed to provide adequate field
coverage, and to ensure regularly scheduled visits to area farmers. The
extension package has encouraged farmers to intensify cultivation of
already existing savanna through use of improved cultural practices,
improved seeds and fertilizer.



- 18 -
2.27.     Implementation experience with PMKO has been quite successful,
particularly in the field of extension services, where a more rigorous
system of training and visits has been put in place, and priority has been
given to meaningful interaction with farmers. On the output side,
incremental maize production has rearhed about 60,000 t in three years,
su'stituting for imports that would otherwise have been necessary.
Cassava, cowpea and groundnut production are also increasing. The main
factors in these increases appear to be strong demand (generated by the
booming diamond economy of Mbuji-Hayi) and price liberalization. During a
recent mid-term review of the project, it was found that the cost of
administering the credit program and handling input distribution operations
has been high, and it is not clear that this implementation approach is
sustainable over the long-term.   Implementation problems have consisted
primarily of inadequate counterpart funding by Government and insufficient
allocation of foreign exchange for fertilizer purchases.
2.28      The PMKO experience is particularly relevant for the proposed
Project because the two areas have virtually identical ecological
conditions. On technical ground, therefore, there are reasons for optimism
regarding recommended technological packages and likely production
responses. In broader terms, however, the proposed Project area is quite
different from the PMKO area, and parallels between the two should not be
drawn too glibly. First, PMKO benefitted from about 10 years of on-going
development programs so that the knowledge base of area farmers and
extension workers was much stronger than is currently the case in the
proposed Project area. Secondly, purchasing power and liquidity are much
higher in the PMKO area due to the diamond mines of Mbuji-Mayi.
Consequently, ability to purchase improved inputs such as seeds and
fertilizers has posed less of a burden than is likely to be the case in the
proposed Project area. In summary, while there are sound reasons for
expecting substantial benefits from the proposed Project, they are not
likely to be realized as quickly or to reach the same quantitative levels
as in the case of PMKO.
2.29      The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Kananga supports a number of
rural-development efforts, which vary greatly as a function of the
financial means available and of the agricultural interest of parish
priests. Efforts include promotion of soybeans and manufacture and sale of
soy cookies; veterinary care and provision of veterinary products;
organization of collective and cooperative farming groups; promotion of
animal traction; and small-bridge construction. Activities associated with
soybean cultivation and processing have been particularly successful and
have been responsible for introducing soybeans into the traditional crop
rotation. Animal traction efforts have not met with much success, due to
the presence of trypanosomiasis in many areas and local social customs (see
para 2.07). Interventions that touch small farmers are loosely grouped
under PROPA (Peasant Promotion). Several of the missions run their own
large agricultural enterprises, most notably cattle ranches.
2.30      The Mweka Integrated Rural Development Project (CEDERIM) began
operations with financial support from the Government and the French Aid
Cooperation Agency (FAC); the European Development Fund (FED) is now
providing external financing. CEDERIM operates in the administrative zone



- 19 -
of Mweka, located on the north-western boundary of the proposed Project
area. Project activities have focused on agricultural extension themes for
foodcrops, marketing and credit operations, and rehabilitation of social
infrastructure. Unlike the proposed Project, CEDERIN has developed its own
credit operation and markets farm inputs and outputs for local farmers.
The extension package is based on exp oiting the remaining forest lands
rather than on intensifying production on savanna lands through use of
fertilizers. Information on production increases is not available, so it
is not possible to evaluate the project's impact on area farmers and
agricultural output.
2.31      The Family Fish-farming Project (PFP), financed by USAID, was
initiated in 1980 and is carried out mainly by American Peace Corps
volunteers. The project's zone of operation includes the zones of Demba,
Dibaya, Mweka, Kazumba, and Luiza, and the Kananga sub-region. Activities
focus on stimulating fish production by repairing and building fish ponds
and by transporting fingerlings. The total number and area of ponds that
are operating well, however, as well as the total production, are not
significant. Theft has been a major problem which has kept fish farming
from being financially attractive.
2.32      The British-based OXFAM organization also operates in the Project
area and supports couminity level self-help activities in the fields of
agricultural and social services (medecine). With regard to agricultural
activities, OXFAM-supported efforts have focussed primarily on organizing
farmer groups and introducing improved cultural practices (including
fertilizers and animal traction). OXFAM has been working with a religious
mission in Luiza zone involved in animal traction programs (see para 2.29),
and has expanded this experience to some farmer groups in the PMKO area
(para 2.26). Implementation experience has been mixed, and project
participants are now evaluating the lessons of the animal traction programs
in order to reorient future activities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Rationale
3.01      The proposed Lulua Agricultural Development Project (PRODALU)
aims at increasing foodcrop production in the Project area by addressing
key constraints to development, notably, diffusion of useful technical
information by the extension, service, availability of inputs, transport
infrastructure, and marketing services. Increasing foodcrop production is
given top priority within the Government's agricultural strategy (para
1.23), and, as such, the proposed Project is an important element in the
country's Agricultural Recovery Plan. Increased production generated under
the Project is expected to substitute for imports which would otherwise be
necessary and will move Zaire closer towards its goal of food
self-sufficiency. The Project would benefit an estimated 80,000 farm
families.



-20-
3.02      The proposed Project is a logical follow-up to the on-going
Smallholder Maize Project in Kasai Oriental (paras 2.26-28). Project
design has been largely inspired by the PMKO experience, but has been
adapted to local conditions and to the current policy environmpnt. Like
PMKO, PRODALU will be implemented by a Project Unit which is part of DADR,
and the extension message will emphasize intensification of production.
Differences between the two projects consist primarily in implementation
arrangements; based on PMKO experience, PRODALU will not administer a
credit program nor handle marketing of inputs directly, given the
costliness and non-sustainability of this approach. Instead, every effort
will be made to associate the private sector with marketing activities
supported under the Project, in order to assure continuity in input supply
over the longer-term. This implementation approach will permit PRODALU to
maintain the minimum administrative structure necessary and will limit the
Project's fiscal impact on a recurrent basis.
B. General Description
3.03      The Project would be implemented over a five year period
(1985-89) and would include the following components:
ti) reorientation, training, and logistic support for the
agricultural extension service;
Cii) a field trials program;
(Iii) production of improved seed and planting material;
(iv) provision of agricultural inputs (e.g. fertilizers,
insecticides, tools, improved seed);
5v)  credit for trucks to be used in agricultural marketing
operations;
(vi) rehabilitation and maintenance of roads, bridges, and
ferries; and
(vii) establishment of a Project Unit responsible for project
implementation.
3.04      The Project Unit established to implement the Project ((vii)
above) would be part of DADR but would enjoy considerable administrative
and financial autonomy (see Chart 2). Other institutions in the Project
area (e.g. SOFIDE, religious missions, OR) and private traders would also
participate in the implementation of Project activities. Implementation
arrangements are described in Chapter IV.
C. Detailed Features
Extension Services
3.05      The Project would support activities designed to build an
effective agricultural extension service in the Project area. Emphasis
would be placed on elaborating profitable, realistic extension themes;



-21-
comminicating the purpose and methods of extension work to extension
agents; motivating extension staff through logistic support and salary
supplements; and providing regular training and supervision. Extension
activities would be organized along the basic principles of the Training
and Visit (T&V) system. Visits by extension staff to villages would follow
a regular schedule, and the extension message would be programmed to
follow the agricultural cycle. Extension themes disseminated would be
based on the recommendations resulting from research at Ngandajika (see
para 2.16), and would concentrate on optimum sowing density and dates,
improved seed varieties and planting material, soil protection measures,
and fertilizer use.
3.06      Project investments to support the above program would include
the construction and/or rehabilitation of offices and housing at Sector
headquarters, vehicles (bicycles for agents, motorbikes for Sub-sector
Chiefs, and jeeps for Sector Chiefs), working equipment (boots, scales,
measuring tapes, etc.), and office supplies. Project costs would also
include incremental operating costs and salary supplements for good
performance (the latter to be awarded at the discretion of the Project
Director). Estimated costs of these activities are Z 88.6 million (US$ 2.9
million) without price contingencies.
3.07      Extension Training.  Training would be primarily provided by
Extension Service supervisors in the course of on-the-job supervision and
during monthly or fortnightly meetings. In addition to this on-the-job
training, extension agents would participate in formal training sessions
organized by the Training staff of the Extension/Training Service.
Training activities during the first year of Project implementation would
be primarily orientation courses with some review of major technical
themes; thereafter, formal sessions would be refresher courses, designed to
retrain and upgrade staff skills. Participation in and satisfactory
completion of training courses would be an eligibility requirement for
receiving salary bonuses (3.06 above).
3.08      Formal training courses would be held during school holidays at
the three regional ITAs (para 2.17). Courses would last about one week to
ten days and could accommodate between 30-35 participants. Given this
class size, it is anticipated that all Sector and Sub-sector Chiefs and
about 60 extension agents would be able to participate in orientation
courses during the first year; the remaining 105 pxtension agents would
participate during the second year. Refresher courses would then be
offered on a rolling basis. Start-up of extension activities in each area
would be linked to satisfactory completion of orientation training by
extension workers in order to assure that the extension program only
operates with trained staff. Training staff would circulate among the five
sectors to work with Sector and Sub-sector chiefs in carrying out their
training functions, and in organizing informal training sessions at Sector
headquarters.
3.09      Investments to support the above-mentioned program would include
rehabilitation and repairs to the three regional ITAs, vehicles for
Training staff (jeep for Deputy Service Chief and motorbikes for



-22-
assistants), training materials, incremental staff salaries, and operating
costs, including honorariums to technical experts participating in training
sessions and transport and lodging expenses of course participants. Four
man-months of consultant support to assist with the setting up of the
training program and six months of training for trainers would also be
provided. Estimated costs of these activities are Z 16.7 million (US$ 0.6
million), excluding price contingencies.
Field Trials
3.10      Field trials in support of the Project's extension program would
be carried out by PRODALU's Trials/Seed Production Service. These trials
would rely on the basic research done at Ngandajika and by the national
commodity programs such as PRONAM, PNM, PNL, and PNR (para 1.17). The
trials program would cover primarily improved varieties, fertilizer doses,
and use of plant residues to improve soil fertility. It would also include
testing of integrated pest management approaches and biological insect
control for cassava. Trials plots would be established at the Pania Santu
Seed Farm (para 3.12 below), at the sub-sector level (one per sub-sector),
and at the farm level (two per extension agent). The program would be
closely integrated with Extension Service activities in order to train
extension agents on-the-job (they would cultivate the sub-sector plots) and
as a pre-extension exercise for farmers.
3.11      Project costs associated with the trials program include
investments in buildings, equipment, vehicles for Trials Service staff,
incremental staff salaries, operating costs of vehicles, and inputs for the
trials program. The costs of training for Trials Service staff at
international research institutes (nine months) would also be included in
Project costs. Total costs for this component, excluding price
contingencies, are estimated at Z 20.1 million (US$ 0.7 million).
Seed Production
3.12      The Project would support the rehabilitation of the Pania Santu
Seed Farm and production of improved seed and planting material for sale to
area farmers. Prior to beginning production activities, Seed Farm staff,
with the assistance of local firms, would carry out a soil survey, prepare
a topographical plan, identify planting sites, and develop a system for
recording observations. Production activities would focus on improved
varieties of cassava and maize. The basic seed or planting material would
be obtained from the national commodity programs (PRONAM, PNM) and other
development projects. Training for seed farm staff in management and
commercial production techniques would be provided. Production activities
would be self-financing, except during the first two years of Project
start-up.
3.13      The area cultivated at Pania Santu would increase from 34 ha in
the first year of Project implementation to its full development size of
125 ha in year 4. Annual output at full development is estimated at 165 t
of improved maize seed, and 250,000 improved cassava cuttings. As these
quantities are unlikely to be sufficient to completely satisfy farmer



-23-
demand throughout the implementation period, the Project would support the
purchase of additional improved seed and planting material from other seed
farms to make up the shortfall. Seed Farm staff would also organize a
network of contract farmers who would multiply improved varieties of
cassava at the farm level, in order to increase the local supply of
improved planting material. Seed production activities could be extended
to groundnuts, cowpeas, rice, and soya towards the end of the Project
implementation period, should the trials program identify improved
varieties which are adapted to local conditions.
3.14      Major investment items for the seed production program include
fixing up Seed Farm buildings and storage facilities, purchase of equipment
and vehicles, incremental staff salaries, and program operating costs.
Soils tests and topographical studies, consultant services (five man
months), and training (six months) would also be included. Total cost of
this component, excluding price contingencies, is estimated at Z 27.8
million (US$ 0.9 million).
Provision of Agricultural Inputs
3.15      The Project Unit would organize the procurement and distribution
of agricultural inputs (fertilizer, insecticides, and seeds produced at the
seed farm) to make it possible for area farmers to adopt the improved
technical recommendations being diffused by the Extension Service.
Fertilizer orders would be based on Extension Service estimates of farmer
demand; consumption is expected to grow slowly in the initial years, from
39 t in Year 1 to 1074 t in Project Year 5, for a total of about 2,253 t
for the entire Project period. Crop storage chemicals would be imported on
a trial basis, and would be purchased primarily by area traders who are
currently experiencing 30% losses on maize stocks; minimal sales are
anticipated at the farm level for seed treatment. Quantities imported over
the five year period are expected to grow from 2 t in Year 1 to 15 t in
Year 5, for a total of 42 t. The Project Unit would also organize the
procurement and distribution of hand tools, either imported or produced
locally. Project costs associated with this component include the purchase
and transport costs of the agricultural inputs, equipment and vehicles for
PRODALU's Logistic Service, incremental staff salaries, storage rental, and
operating costs. The total cost of the component, excluding price
contingencies, is estimated at Z 103.7 (US$3.5 million).
Credit for Trucks
3.16      The truck fleet in the Project area is small in size and
frequently non-functional, due to the poor state of the roads (para 2.20)
and the shortage of spare parts occasioned by the foreign exchange crisis.
To facilitate the movement of goods within the Project area and to
encourage competition in goods transport, the Project would provide a line
of credit for the purchase of about 25 eight-ton trucks and spare parts by
area traders during the Project implementation period. SOFIDE would manage
the line of credit on behalf of the Project Unit, under the terms of an
agreement approved by Government, IDA, the Project Unit, and SOFIDE (see
paras 4.13-4.15). Total component cost, excluding price contingencies, is
estimated at Z 41.3 million (US$1.4 million).



-24-
Transport Infrastructure Maintenance
3.17      In light of the serious deterioration of the roads infrastructure
in the Project area and the serious obstacle which this poses to marketing
of foodcrops, the Project would support periodic and routine maintenance
interventions on the road network, and reconstruction and repair of small
bridges and ferries. Periodic maintenance would be done mechanically, and
would include earthworks, provision of new base course materials, and in
some cases, relocation of the road alignment. (Implementation of a
labor-based rehabilitation program in the Project area is not considered
feasible at this time as population densities are not high enough to assure
adequate supplies of surplus labor on a regular basis). Routine
maintenance would be done both manually and mechanically. As the geometric
design of roads in the Project area is adequate and no improvements are
planned, there is no need for specific design standards under this
maintenance program.
3.18      The road network covered under the maintenance program consists
entirely of earth roads. Rural roads as well as priority sections of RN
and RR roads, which would not normally have been maintained by OR due to
budgetary and equipment constraints, have been included in the program.
Yearly outputs of the mechanized program are estimated to be 50 km of
rehabilitation, 78 km of relocation and reopening of tracks, and 400 km of
upgrading. The manual maintenance program supported by the Project would
cover all rural roads (1700 km) in the Project area. Project activities
will result in year-round access on RN and RR road sections, and dry
season/harvest season access on RIL. Manual maintenance of the RN and RR
sections would be handled by OR under the IDA-supported Highways V and VI
Projects.
3.19      Major investment items for the transport infrastructure component
would include equipment and operating costs of the mechanized brigade,
equipment and operating costs for manual maintenance activities, earth
works or civil works on the approaches to bridges and ferries,
superstructures for bridges (girders, steel pipes, steel trusses),
vehicles for Infrastructure Service supervisory staff (four-wheel drive,
motorbikes, and bicycles), and incremental staff salaries. Funds would
also be provided for the services of a Roads Technician during a two year
period and for two man-months of a consultant transport economist. Total
component costs, excluding price contingencies, are estimated at Z 155.8
million (US$5.2 million).
Project Management
3.20      Project management would be based at Kananga, and a liaison
office would be maintained in Kinshasa to facilitate procurement and
logistics arrangements. Project managers would give top priority to
keeping a light administrative structure and not developing an over-staffed
public bureaucracy. Major investments to support the management of Project
activities would include the repair of office buildings in Kananga and
Kinshasa, purchase of vehicles and equipment, incremental staff salaries,
and operating costs. Funds would also be provided for about six-years of
technical assistance for the positions of Deputy Technical Director and



-25-
Deputy Administrative Director, and about 16 man-months of consultant
services in the fields of financial management, monitoring and evaluation,
and auditing. Twenty man months of training in project management, finance
and accounting, procurement, and monitoring techniques would also be
included. Total Project management costs, excluding Price contingencies,
are estimated at Z 87.0 million (US$2.9 million).
D. Project Costs
3.21       Total costs are estimated at about Z 658 million (USS21.9
million), of which about 58% or US$12.7 million would be in foreign
exchange. Project costs by program are suvmarized in the following table:
ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUIIiIARY
(ZAIRE '000)            (USS '000)               Z Total
IZ Freign  Base
Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total  E:.chense  Costs
A. EXTENSION                        49,B44.8 30,690.5 80,535.3 1,661.5 1I023.0 24684.5  3B     16
D. TRAINING PROERAlt FOR EXTENSION SERVICE   8P082.1  7,094.0 15S176.0  269.4  236.5  505.9  47  3
C. FIELD TRIALS                      9,868.0  99463.3 18,331.3  295.6  315.4  611.0     52      4
D. SEED FARM                         67993.9 18,312.7 25,306.6  233.1  610.4  843.6     72      5
E. INPUT SUPPLY                     38034.0 56,232.6 94'266.7 19267.8 1,874.4 3,142.2  60     19
F. MARKET SUPPORT                   15,000.0 22,500.0 37P500.0  500.0  750.0 1'250.0    60      8
6. TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE         47,517.2 94,099.9 141I617.1 1,583.9 39136.7 4t720.6  66    29
H. PROJECT MANAGEMENT               29,417.6 49649.5 79,067.0  980.6 1X655.0 2v635.6    63     16
Total BASELINE COSTS                 203,757.5 288,042.4 491,800.0 6%791.9 99601.4 169393.3  59    100
Physical Continsencies             20i375.8 28,804.2 49,180.0  679.2  960.1 1s639.3    59     10
Price Contingencies                54,349.2 629726.7 117,076.0 1'811.6 2,090.9 3M902.5  54    24
Total PROJECT COSTS                  278,482.5 379573.4 658,055.9 9s282.8 12,652.4 21,935.2  58    134
September 21, 1984 11:45
Time phasing and a breakdown of Project costs by expenditure category are
shown in Tables 2 and 3.
3.22       Project costs were estimated on the basis of January 1984 prices,
updated by projected inflation rates to January 1985. Costs are inclusive
of estimated taxes and duties of Z 24.lmillion, amounting to about 3% of
Project costs. Without taxes and duties, total costs are estimated at Z
634 million (US$21.1 million). A physical contingency of 102 was applied
to reflect uncertainties regarding detailed quantities and the possibility
of design changes during implementation. Price contingencies for both



-26-
local and foreign costs were based on expected increases in world prices,
as it was assumed that the Government's floating exchange rate regime would
maintain the local currency's purchasing power parity over the Project
implementation period. Annual inflation rates were estimated by the
Country Economist as follows:
%
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Local                       8        9        9       9      7.5
International               8        9       9        6      7.5
E. Financing
3.23      The financing of Project conts would be as follows:
Z millions   USS Millions    Z
Government of Zaire                            62.2          2.1        10
IDA                                           372.7         12.5        59
IFAD                                          199.0          6.5        31
Total (without taxes)                     633.9          21.1       100
Taxes & duties                              24.1          0.8         3
Total (with taxes)                        658.0          21.9      103
The Government contribution indicated above (Z 86.2 million, taxes
included) may somewhat underestimate the actual amount of Zaires required,
should local inflation rates exceed the international inflation rate (see
para 3.22 above).
3.24      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 12.6 million (US$ 12.5 million)
would be granted to Government according to standard terms and conditions.
IFAD would make a loan of US$6.5 million to Government on terms and
conditions to be agreed upon.  Jointly, the IDA credit and IFAD loan would
cover 90X of Project cost (excluding taxes and duties), including 100% of
foreign exchange costs and 76% of local costs (Z 192.0 million). The
Zairian Government-would cover 10% of Project costs on a net of tax basis.
The IDA credit and IFAD loan would be cross-effective. The Project costs
that would be jointly financed by IDA and IFAD are specified below (para
3.26).
3.25      Government would pass on the proceeds of the Credit and of the
loan and its own contribution to the Department of Agriculture, which would
pass these funds on the Project authority, except in the instance of funds
for financing purchase of trucks for merchants. Proceeds of the Credit and
loan for this purpose would be passed to SOFIDE under conditions to be
agreed with the Project authority and approved by IDA (see para 4.14).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would at least
maintain in real terms its pre-project levels of expenditure in the Project
area for the Agricultural Extension Service, OR, and manual maintenance of
rural roads.



-27-
F. Disbursements
3.26      Disbursements from the credit account and IFAD loan account would
be disbursed pari passu as presented in Table 4. Disbursements would be
conditional on approval by IDA and IFAD of the annual work program. Items
under disbursement categories (a) through (f) would be financed jointly by
IDA and IFAD at the ratio of 66 and 34. Item (g) will be entirely financed
by IDA, and represents an initial advance of US $60,000 under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). This PPF was approved in January 1984 and will
finance field trials in Luiza Zone (para 2.25). An increase in the PPF of
about US$230,000 is being proposed to finance the costs of critical Project
start-up activities and would also be refunded under the Credit.
Disbursements against categories(a)-(e) would be fully documented.
Disbursements under category (f) would be against statements of
expenditures certified by the Project Director and the Chief of the
Financial Service (incremental expenses eligible for disbursement under
category (f) would be expenses over and above those incurred prior to
Project start-up). Full documentation would be retained by Project
management for inspection in the course of normal Project supervision
missions and for auditing. The Association would be administering
disbursements under the IFAD loan.
3.27      Revolving Fund.  The Government may have difficulty in
pre-financing expenditures to be reimbursed under the IDA Credit and IFAD
loan.  A revolving fund of US $0.2 million, financed under the Project
would be established in an account to be opened in the Central Bank for the
purpose and operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and
IFAD. The revolving fund would cover all eligible expenditures with the
exception of the vehicles and spare parts under the program of credit to
traders to be carried out by SOFIDE (para 3.16). The revolving fund would
be replenished on a quarterly basis upon receipt of documentary evidence to
be provided by Project management. Should any disbursements be made from
the revolving fund which are not acceptable to IDA, the Government would
deposit the corresponding amount in the Special Account. Terms and
conditions for using the Special Account were agreed at negotiations.
3.28      An estimated schedule of disbursement is given in Table 5.  A
disbursement period of 6 years has been utilized even though projects in
Zaire have averaged slightly over 8 years. This shorter disbursement
period has been considered more realistic because: (i) procurement of
roads equipment (which accounts for about 11% of Project costs) will be
handled by an experienced agency and delays are therefore unlikely; (ii)
PPF financing and intensive supervision are expected to start Project
activities off on the right foot; and (iii) agricultural disbursement
performance has been improving recently (First Ituri Livestock Project
disbursed over 6.5 years, and the on-going Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project is on
schedule).
G. Procurement
3.29      Vehicles (excluding trucks for marketing) and mechanized road
equipment (US$4.7 million) would be procured under international
competitive bidding following Bank/IDA guidelines. Trucks for marketing
(US $1.6 million) would be procured according to SOFIDE procurement
guidelines. Fertilizer, pesticides, and tools (US $1.5 million), seed farm



-28-
equipment (US$0.2 million), and manual road maintenance tools and equipment
(US $0.2 million) would be procured following local or international
shopping procedures. Civil works for houses, offices and rehabilitation of
storage buildings and training centers (US $0.4 million) involve many small
buildings and due to their dispersed locations and difficult conditions in
the Project area would be unlikely to attract foreign bids; these works
would therefore be carried out following local competitive bidding. Bridge
rehabilitation and ferry repairs would be contracted to religious missions
and private operators with proven experience (US $0.7 million). Technical
assistance (US $2.2 million) provided under the Project would be recruited
according to Bank/IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. Experts could
be recruited either individually or via private firms. Amounts and
procedures are presented in the following table; figures include physical
and price contingencies.



-29-
Procurement 8/
(US$ Millions)
Project Elements                             Procurement Methods
Other            T.A.
ICB    LCB   Proce-      N.A.  Guide-  Total
dures            lines    Cost
Vehicles                                   2.0    -       -         -      -        2.0
(1.4)                                    (1.4)
Mechanized road equipment                  2.7    -       -         -      -        2.7
(1.5)                                    (1.5)
Seed farm equipment                        -      -       0.2 c/    -      -        0.2
(0. 1)                    (0. 1)
Civil works (houses, offices,
storage houses, and                      -      0.4    -          -      -        0.4
framing centers)                               (0.2)                             (0.2)
Manual road tools and equipment            -      -       0.2 c/    -      -        0.2
(0.1)                     (0.1)
Trucks for marketing                       -      -       1.6 b/    -      -        1.6
(0.7)                     (0.7)
Fertilizer, Pesticides, Tools              -      -       1.5 c/    -      -        1.5
(1.2)                     (1.2)
Bridge Rehabilitation & ferry repairs    -        -       0.7 d/    -      -        0.7
(0.4)                     (0.4)
Technical Assistance                       -      -       -         -       2.2     2.2
(1.6)   (1.6)
Office furniture & equipment               -      -       0.4 e/    -      -        0.4
(0.2)                     (0.2)
Seeds and cuttings                         -      -       1.4 f/    -      -        1.4
(1.0)                     (1.0)
Incremental operating costs                -      -      -         8.6 y/ -         8.6
(4.1)           (4.1)
Total Project costs                   4.7    0.4    6.0        8.6    2.2    21.9
(2.9)  (0.2)  (3.7)      (4.1)  (1.6)  (12.5)
Note: Figures in parantheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
a/ With price and physical contingencies.
b/ SOFIDE procurement guidelines.
c/ Local or international shopping procedures.
dl To be subcontracted to religious missions and/or private operators.
e/ Local shopping procedures.
f/ Maize seeds to be bought from other seed farms and casaava cuttings to be bought
from local farmers working in liaison with Project seed farm.
g/ Includes US$2.9 million for staff salaries, bonuses, and allowances, and US $2.0
million for the incremental operating costs of the mechanized brigade, and US
$0.6 million for the incremental operating costs of the manual maintenance unit.
H. Accounts and Audits
3.30      Consultants, acceptable to IDA, would be recruited to set up
PRODALU's accounting and internal control systems and to provide follow-up
support, as necessary (six man months); manuals would be prepared to help
PRODALU accounting staff in applying the systems. The Finance Service
Chief and his personnel would participate in training courses (six



-30-
months). PRODALU's consultants would also review SOFIDE's accounting
system, in order to ascertain that the accounting system is adequate to
ensure that the activities to be carried out and financed through the
Project are properly recorded. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that (i) PRODALU would (a) maintain records and accounts to explain all
project activities; (b) have these accounts and statements of expenditures,
if any, audited each year by external auditors acceptable to IDA; and (c)
submit these accounts to IDA no later than six months after the close of
the financial year; and (ii) SOFIDE would (a) keep separate accounts for
Project activities managed by SOFIDE; and (b) provide these accounts and
records covering the credit program within three months after the close of
the financial year so that they may be audited together with the accounts
of the Project Unit by external auditors acceptable to IDA.
I. Environmental Impact
3.31      As discussed earlier (see para 2.03), farming as now practiced in
the Project area converts forests to savannas, and soils of moderate
fertility are degraded to the point that they cannot sustain reasonable
pasture, let alone produce grain crops. This process is not sustainable,
particularly where population densities are highest. Continuation of
existing practices would result in the destruction of much of the forest
cover in the Project area, continued mining of residual soil fertility, and
slow deterioration of productivity through the shortening of fallow
periods. The Project will encourage farmers to intensify production on the
savannas by adopting practices which conserve and improve soil
productivity. This will reduce considerably the rate of forest
destruction, thus contributing to improvements in watershed management and
general ecological conditions. However, even with the adoption of improved
cultivation practices, forest felling will continue, but the With-Project
situation will be a definite improvement over the Without-Project
situation.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. General
4.01      The Lulua Agricultural Development Project (PRODALU) would be
implemented over a five year period (see Chart 3). This time frame is
considered appropriate for achieving desired changes in extension service
behavior, farmer practices, and trading patterns. A detailed map of the
Project area, showing sector headquarters, training centers, the seed farm,
storage depots, and the proposed transport improvement program is actached
as IBRD Map 17992. Project activities would be managed by a Project Unit
with headquarters at Kananga. The Project Unit would be part of DADR, but
would enjoy considerable administrative and financial autonomy. The
Project Director would report directly to the Director of the Department of
Project Administration in DADR, to whom in particular he would send
progress reports (see para 4.23). The establishment of the Project Unit,
in accordance with the criteria outlined above, would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness.
4.02      At the national level, mechanisms have been recently established
to ensure coordination among services in the Department and between DADR
and other ministries. There is therefore no need for an additional
coordinating mechanism for the project alone at that level. Approval of



-31-
annual work programs and review of project progress would be under the
responsibility of existing services of DADR. These services are already
being strengthened (paras 1.13-14) and assurances were obtained at
negotiations that a special effort would be made to strengthen further the
Project Administration Department in particular so that it can perform its
functions more efficiently. At the regional level, a Consultative
Committee would be established to follow up on project implementation,
transmit observations to central Government authorities, and lend support
to the Project unit in resolving difficulties. It would also comment on
the draft work program. The committee would be chaired by the Regional
Inspector of DADR and would include, among others, the Regional Director of
OR, the Project Director and his deputies for technical aspects and for
infrastructure. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this
committees would be established and functioning in time to review the first
annual work program (by June 1985).
B. Project Organization
4.03      The Project Unit, based at Kananga, would consist of three
departments - for agricultural production, for infrastructure and for
administration and logistics -- each headed by a Deputy Project Director.
The Technical Department would comprise two services: (i)
Extension/Training and (ii) Trials/Seed Production. The Administration
Department would be composed of three services: Ci) Logistics, (ii)
Administration, and (iii) Finance. Outside of these departmental
structures, a Monitoring Unit would report directly to the Project
Director. In collaboration with other IDA-supported projects, a Project
liaison office would be established in Kinshasa to handle procurement and
logistic arrangements. The proposed organizational chart is attached as
Chart 2. As a condition of negotiations, the Project Director has already
been appointed; appointment of the three Deputy Directors, the head of the
Seed Farm, and the Finance Service Chief would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. Assurances were obtained at negoLiations that terms of
reference for top and mid-level management positions8/ and qualifications
of the individuals hired would be acceptable to IDA.
4.04      Management support would be provided to the Project Unit in the
form of long and short-term technical assistance. Long-term technical
assistance would be recruited for the positions of Technical Deputy
Director and Administrative Deputy Director (para 4.03), and Roads
Technician (para 4.19). This technical assistance would be necessary only
during the first three years of Project implementation in order to launch
operations on a sound footing; the positions should disappear thereafter.
Short-term consultant support would also be provided in the fields of
financial management, monitoring, training, and seed farm management; these
interventions would focus on upgrading staff skills in these areas, and
would be closely linked to formal training activities either in-country or
overseas. Consultant support for auditing Project accounts and in
8/ Deputy Directors, Service Chiefs for: Extension/Training,
Trials/Seeds, Infrastructure, Logistics, Finance, Administration, and
Monitoring; Deputy Service Chiefs for Training and for Seeds
Production.



-32-
transport economics would also be provided. Terms of reference and
qualifications of technical assistance personnel and consultants would be
acceptable to IDA.
C. Implementation of Project Components
Extension
4.05      Implementation of the extei.sion program would be the
responsibility of the Extension/Training Service, headed by a Service Chief
(AO) and assisted by a Deputy Service Chief (AO) for training activities.
The Extension Service's field organization would be divided geographically
into five sectors respecting existing zonal boundaries wherever possible.
One central field office would be established per sector, located at the
following sites:  Demba (Demba Zone), Fwamba (Dibaya Zone), Bilomba
(Kazumba Zone), Luiza (Luiza Zone) 9/, and Kananga (for the rural
collectivities of Kananga and Dimbelenge Zone). The Government would
officially grant the Project Unit the use of State-owned ex-COTONCO
buildings located at Demba, Fwamba, and Kabwanga for use as extension
sector headquarters during the Project implementation period. These access
rights were authorized prior to negotiations and documents confirming the
official authorization would be sent to IDA prior to the signing of the
Credit Agreement. The PRODALU Extension Service would retain the DADR
staffing ratios (para 2.14 and Table 1). The ratio of extension agents to
farmers would be about 1:800; during the Project implementation period it
is estimated that agents would work intensively with 350-400 farmers.
4.06      For the extension program supported under the Project to play an
effective role in stinulating production increases, the role of the
extension agent nust be transformed from that of an enforcer of
DADR cultivation norum (para 1.10) into a provider of technical support to
the local population. For such a transformation to be successful, the
practice of imposing fixed cultivation areas on the active adu'" population
ust be officially abolished in the Project area. Assurances to that
effect were obtained at negotiations. In addition, assurances were
obtained that measures will be put in place by Government to ensure that
the practice of requiring any type of imposed cultivation will cease
throughout the country by December 31, 1985. In particular, ag-ricultural
extension staff in the Project Area will not be permitted activities
falling outside their official duties. To ensure that the new extension
approach is followed by all extension staff in the Project area, assurances
were also obtained at negotiations that only one agricultural extension
service would operate in the Project area and that it would be placed under
the technical supervision of the Project Unit. The scope of the Project
Unit's authority and methods for selecting staff were discussed and agreed
at negotiations. In particular, no action affecting extension staff
assigned to the project (transfer, hiring and firing) would be made without
the approval of the Project Director.
9/ Temporary offices at Ngwema (for Kazumba Zone) and at Kabwanga (for
Luiza Zone) will be used initially while permanent accommodations are
being prepared at Bilomba and Luiza.



-33-
Extension Training
4.07      Training activities for extension staff would be directed by the
Deputy Service Chief for Training, assisted by two staff members.
Orientation seminars and refresher courses would be organized during school
holidays at the three regional ITAs (see par- 3.08). Appropriate use
agreements between the Project Unit and th   TAs would define PRODALU's
access to the buildings and rehabilitation :o be undertaken in return
(detailed cost estimates would be included). These agreements would be
acceptable to IDA, and their signature would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. Local experts (from other development projects, INERA,
commodity programs, etc.) would be retained to provide additional depth and
information to the formal training program. The bulk of training for
extension workers, however, would be carried out by line supervisors in the
normal course of extension program activities. The training unit would
work closely with extension supervisors to guide them in carrying out this
role effectively. Support for the trainers in the Training Unit would be
provided in the form of short-term consultants (4 man-months) and
specialized courses (6 man-months).
Trials/Seed Production
4.08      Implementation of trials and seed production activities would be
the responsibility of the Trials/Seed Production Service, comprising a
Service Chief (Al), Deputy Service Chief/Seeds (Al), two assistants (A2)
for trials, and seed farm staff. The Service Chief would be responsible
for sunervising trials and seed production activities, focussing
particularly on the conception, interpretation, and reorientation of the
trials program. Re would be assisted by two agronomists, one based at the
seed farm in charge of executing comportment and adaptation trials, and one
based in Kananga. Trials at the collectivity and farm level would be
carried out by extension staff and farmers, supervised by the Trials
Service staff and by extension service supervisors. Seed production would
be carried out at the Pania Santu Seed Farm, under the direction of the
Deputy Service Chief.
4.09      Trials and seed farm activities would be supported by a training
program designed to increase staff skills in relevant areas. Trials staff
would participate in courses at international research institutes such as
CIMMYT and IITA; Seeds Farm staff would attend seminars in seed farm
management and production practices, such as those organized by the FAO.
Short-term consultant support (5 man-months) would also be provided in
various aspects of seed farm management to assist with the establishment of
the seed farm and start-up of production operations.
4.10      To lay the basis for the seed farm's long-term financial
viability, agreement was reached at negotiations to the basic principle
that the Seed Farm would recover its operating costs and amortization of
its capital goods. This would be accomplished by selling improved seed
(maize) at a price not less than three times the previous local
post-harvest low and never less than the going market price; cassava
cuttings would be sold at a price one fifth the cost of dried root.
By-products of seed production activities (consumption quality maize and
cassava roots) would be sold at the going market rate. These arrangements
would be reviewed after negotiations of the proposed National



-34-
Seeds/Research Project (appraised June/July 1984) and revised if necessary
to ensure conformity with national policy in this area.
Provision of Agricultural Inputs
4.11      The objective of project activities in this area is to develop
demand for improved inputs and to put in place marketing arrangements which
will continue beyond the Project implementation period. To achieve this
long-term objective, a phased approach will be used. During the first two
years, the Project authority would be responsible for tbo procurement and
transport of fertilizers, insecticides, and tools to the Project area.
Distribution and sales of inputs (including seeds) within the Project area
would then be handled by private traders, either by purchasing directly
from PRODALU or under sub-contracting (consignment) arrangements. Traders
have the capability and willingness to carry out these activities and have
not done so until now because of the non-availability of these inputs.
Extension agents would play an important support role in this process by
estimating farmer demand, organizing farmer groups, and informing them of
the planned itinerary and dates of the trader(s) operating in their area.
Inputs would be sold on a cash basis, as is normal trading practice in
the Project area. Incremental cash outlays for inputs are estimated to be
within the financial means of area farmers, as fertilizer purchases play a
relatively small role in the overall improved technical package. After a
two year trial period it is anticipated that consignment arrangements would
no longer be necessary, and that private traders would take over all
distribution within the Project area on a direct purchase basis. A longer
term goal would be for the private sector to take over the procurement of
these inputs, foreign exchange conditions permitting.
4.12      Management and supervision of the input distribution program
would be the responsibility of the Logistics Service, in collaboration with
the Deputy Director for Administration. The Service would be staffed by a
Service Chief, with a commercial/logistics background, and five assistants
who would circulate in the zones to supervise operations. In addition to
procuring the inputs, Service tasks would include calculating the sale
price of the imported inputs ex-rail head, negotiating sub-contracts
with traders distributing inputs on consignment, and monitoring their
performance. For private sector participation to be sustained, it would be
essential that input prices reflect procurement, transport, and handling
costs; this would also have the benefit of concentrating modern input use
in areas where it is financially justified. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that all fertilizer and imported chemicals sold in the
Project area -- whether through PRODALU or other Government services -
would be sold at a price that covers all costs, including procurement and
transport to and within the Project area. This would result in a variable
price structure within the Project area based on location. Ex-railhead and
(during the initial two years) ton-km tariffs would be calculated on a
seasonal basis.
Credit for Trucks Purchase
4.13 Implementation of this component would be carried out by SOFIDE with
assistance from its regional office at Kananga. Two agreements would
define the scope and terms of this operation: Ci) an agreement between the



-35-
Government and SOFIDE, and (ii) the standard loan agreement between SOFIDE
and the truck purchaser; drafts of both agreements were brought by
Government to negotiations for review and are found acceptable.
4.14      The agreement between SOFIDE and the Government specifies:  (i)
SOFIDE's role in administering the line of credit; (ii) SOFIDE's fee for
these services; (iii) eligibility and selection criteria; and (iv) the rate
charged to credit recipients and the repayment period. It was agreed at
negotiations that: (a) SOFIDE would manage the funds on PRODALU's behalf,
selecting borrowers according to its standard banking criteria, assisting
with procurement, handling disbursements, and managing collections; (b)
SOFIDE would receive a fee in the range of 4-5% for these services; SOFIDE
would assume no risk on the operation; (c) primary residence in the Lulua
and Kananga sub-regions would be one of the eligibility criterion for
potential credit candidates; (d) credit recipients would assume the foreign
exchange risk and would pay competitive interest rates (currently 18%);
repayment would be over a two to three year period.
4.15      The loan agreement between the truck purchaser and SOFIDE would,
in addition to SOFIDE's standard clauses, specifies that: (i) the truck
would be based in the Project area, and (ii) procurement would be by
international or local shopping (with at least 3 quotations), under
SOFIDE's auspices. The borrower would select the make of truck to p2rmit
him to standardize his fleet, and to assure appropriateness to local
conditions. Purchases would be limited to a maximum of three trucks per
loan recipient, which is sufficient to assure reliable operations and yet
would not permit monopolization of the line of credit by a few users. IDA
would review the first five loans to ensure that the system is working
properly.
Transport Infrastructure
4.16      The Project would improve transport infrastructure in the Project
area, including roads, bridges, and ferries. The composition of the annual
transport improvement program would be decided by the Consultative
Committee to be established at the Regional level (para 4.02). The
committee would meet on a quarterly basis and would monitor implementation
performance during the year. Membership would include OR's Regional
Technioal Director and the Director of OR's Lulua Production Unit and the
PRODALU Project Director and Infrastructure Service Director. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Consultative Committee would be
established in time to agree on the first annual transport improvement
program (by June, 1985).
4.17      Implementation of the transport improvement program would be the
responsibility of the Infrastructure Service, which would report directly
to the Project Director. The Infrastructure Service would be organized
along the lines of an OR 'Production Unit", and the Service Director would
be equivalent to OR's 'Directeur des Travaux". The Service would be
divided into two sections: (i) a mechanized brigade for periodic road
maintenance and bridge and ferry repairs, and (ii) a unit for manual road
maintenance. OR would second management staff and skilled manpower to
PRODALU's Infrastructure Service and would provide training for Service



-36-
staff. These arrangements would be specified in an agreement between OR
and the Project Unit which would be approved by the Departments of
Agriculture and of Public Works and acceptable to IDA. Signature of this
agreement would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. It was agreed at
negotiations that OR would second the Service Director to the Project Unit
within six months of Cred:'t effectiveness.
4.18      Road rehabilitation and upgrading on the priority sections of the
RN, RR and RIL networks in the Project area would be carried out by
PRODALU's mechanized brigade. The proposed four year rehabilitation
program of the mechanized brigade is presented in Table 6. OR would enter
into a sub-contracting arrangement with the Project Unit for works on the
RN and RR sections and would supervise the brigade's performance. (At the
end of the Project implementation period, the equipment of the mechanized
brigade would be transferred to OR or to whichever institution has been
designated as responsible for rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance
(see para 1.21)). Bridge and ferry repair would be subcontracted to
missions and private operators in the area with proven expertise. Manual
road maintenance activities on RIL and upgraded RN and RR would be
organized by the Manual Maintenance Section of the Infrastructure Service.
Two implementation arrangements would be used for maintenance activities:
(i) sub-contracting to missions and private operators, and (ii) direct
organization by the Project. All draft sub-contracts for the above works
would be a acceptable to IDA (IDA would approve only the standard draft
contract for manual maintenance). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that OR would provide manual maintenance on RN and RR sections
rehabilitated by the PRODALU mechanized brigade as part of its normal
operations.
4.19      To assist the Infrastructure Service in organizing and starting
up transport improvement operations, a Roads Technician would be recruited
for a two year period and would report to the Service Director. The Roads
Technician would be reoponsible for providing advice on the infrastructure
program, monitoring operations, and backstopping the Service Director in
dealing with OR, maintenance subcontractors, etc. In addition, a transport
economist would be hired on a short-term basis (2 months) during the first
two years of Project implementation to work with the Service Director,
Mechanized Brigade Chief, and OR in establishing the technical coefficients
and terms for the subcontracts between OR and the Project Unit (para
4.18). The short-term consultant would also provide assistance (as
necessary) in defining screening and selection criteria for use by the
Roads Committee in the work program exercise. Other management support
available to the Infrastructure Service would consist of preparation of
bidding documents, evaluation of offers, and procurement and transport of
mechanized equipment to the Project area by OR. In addition, OR's
equipment maintenance center at Kananga would service PRODALU's mechanized
equipment as required. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that OR
would provide these services; tlhe agreement between OR and the Project
Unit specifying respective responsibilities would be acceptable to IDA,
DTP, and DADR and would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.



-37-
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
4.20      Monitoring activities would be carried out by a Monitoring Unit,
reporting directly to the Project Director. The unit would be staffed by a
Service Chief (Agronomist AO), assisted by a statistician (Al), and five
field workers responsible for data collection. Monitoring activities would
provide Project management and Government with information on key project
indicators, laying the basis for evaluation of implementation progress and
impact of project activities on farm families. Information collected would
be analyzed and reported to management on a regular basis, and would
constitute a critical input into semi-annual progress reports (para 4.23)
and the annual work program (paras 4.21-4.22). Short-term consultant
support (3 man-months) would be provided at project start-up and
periodically thereafter to assist with the establishment of monitoring
activities and the carrying out of a baseline survey. Monitoring Unit
staff would also have the opportunity to participate in training courses
and seminars in Kinshasa to improve their data gathering and analytical
skills. Evaluation activities would be the responsibility of the
Evaluation Unit within DADR's Project Administration Department.
Consultant support for this Department is being provided under the
Technical Assistance Project(Cr. 1244-ZR, para 1.25). Performance is
considered satisfactory and is improving with experience.
D. Reporting
Annual Work Programs
4.21       The Project would be inplemented on the basis of annual work
programs prepared by Project management and approved by the Department and
IDA. The programs would serve as a planning, implementation and monitoring
tool and would provide the necessary flexibility to ensure better Project
adaptation to local conditions. Each annual work program would include (i)
an evaluation of the previous year's performance and a discussion of how
the new program builds on that experience; (ii) a statement of specific
objectives (quantified) to be pursued during the year in question and a
description by component of the activities to be undertaken in order to
achieve those objectives; (iii) detailed investment and operating budgets
by component, showing the human, financial, and physical resources required
to carry out the proposed annual program; (iv) staffing and training plans;
(v) a financing plan which indicates the source of funds for items in the
investment and operating budgets (IDA credit categories, Government
counterpart funds, sales, etc.); and (vi) procurement plans for purchases
and works scheduled in the annual work program, including type of bidding
and timetables.
4.22      Preparation of the annual work program would follow the
Government's budget cycle in order to reduce risks of major discrepancies
between the figures proposed in the program and official government
allocations. The preparation timetable would therefore respect the
following schedule: (i) the first draft work program would be prepared
during June and submitted to the Regional Consultative Committee for
comments; (1i) a revised draft would be transmitted to the Directorate of
Project Administration in DADR and to IDA at tne beginning of July for



-38-
preliminary review and comments; (iii) DADR and DTP would incorporate
Project financing needs in their respective budgetary requests presented to
the Departments of Finance and of Planning in July; (iv) following review
of the draft program by the Department of Planning's Budgetary Committee
and by the Executive Council in August/September, a revised work program
would be prepared incorporating suggestions and amendments resulting from
the review process; (v) the revised annual program would be submitted to
IDA by the end of October to permit final review and approval before the
budget is submitted to Parliament. IDA's approval of this updated draft
would be a condition of disbursement for the activities to which the work
program applies. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the annual
work program would be submitted to IDA according to the timetable outlined
above.
Progress Reports
4.23      The Project Unit would prepare semi-annual reports describing
progress in achieving work program targets, comparing actual costs with
budget estimates, and explaining variations between actual and planned
results in these areas. Comparisons between actual results and appraisal
estimates would also be provided for selected project indicators. Another
important function of the semi-annual reports would be to analyze major
problems encountered, propose solutions to these problems, and identify
decisions and/or actions required by the Government and IDA to facilitate
their implementation.   Reports would be prepared in October and in April
for the preceding six month period; this timetable was selected in order to
provide timely input into the annual work program exercise and to reduce
competing demands on managers' time during peak periods of the agricultural
cycle. Assurances to the above were obtained at negotiations.
E. Mid-term Review
4.24      A five year implementation period has been proposed for this
project to allow sufficient time for project activities to achieve project
objectives. However, as a number of innovations are proposed, particularly
for handling input distribution (see paras 4.11-4.12), Government and IDA
will carry out a mid-term review at the end of 2+ years (by June 30, 1987)
to assess progress and to determine whether revisions to the project scope,
content, or implementation arrangements are required. As part of this
review process, an assessment of the impact of cash input sales on farmer
participation and project achievements will be carried out. To facilitate
the work of the mid-term review mission, Project management would prepare a
mid-term report evaluating progress during the 2f year period, comparing
actual results against appraisal estimates, and indicating management's
opinion concerning the project's future orientation during the remaining
implementation period. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.
F. Project Completion Report
4.25      The Project Unit would prepare a Project Completion Report by the
Project completion date, and DADR would review and submit this report to
IDA no later than six months after the Credit Closing date. The PCR would



-39-
swmmarize Project performance, evaluate its successes and problems, and
underline lessons to be taken into account in the future design and
implementation of similar projects. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. Technical Features
5.01      Innovations expected to be extended to farmers under the Project
include the following:
a) Improved cultural practices. This would involve primarily
increased plant density, optimum seeding dates, and improved weed control.
The extension experience to date has shown that these improvements have a
marked effect on yields.
b) Improved crop varieties. Most of the seed used in the area
is from originally improved varieties but the genetic purity and productive
potential has not been maintained, especially the GPS-5 which was developed
locally and has a good yield potential. Also, Salongo II and Kasai I,
adapted locally from Central America, have a good yield potential, and all
three are more resistant to the most serious diseases - downy mildew and
streak virus -- than local varieties; also varieties developed at IITA,
especially TZBSR reported to be streak resistant, deserve to be tested for
eventual introduction at the farm level. Mosaic-free clones for cassava
would be multiplied at the seed farm and by associated farmers. Other
varieties that could eventually be upgraded through nultiplication and
quality control for distribution to growers would be R 66 for rice; AGF for
groundnut (bunch type); Jupiter, TGM, S14, S17 and Otoctan for soybeans.
c) Fertilizer. Maize fertilization has been tested by FAO, and
nitrogen and phosphorous were found to be profitable. Fertilization would
be promoted on maize grown after maize or another cereal. The standard
rate on a per ha basis would be 100/Kg of diammonium phosphate (18-46-0)
applied at seeding, and 80 Kg of urea (45-0-0) side dressed one month
after seeding. Growers participating in the Project would start using the
standard rate on a portion of their field, and would increase the area
fertilized progressively. The fertilizer would have a residual effect on
the following crop.
5.02      The extension service would also promote the adoption of soil
conservation practices, since the soils are poorly structured and subject
to erosion, especially when overcropping results in reduced soil cover.
Farmers would be encouraged to practice contour cropping and to establish
contour bunds and ditches, thus conserving both water and nutrient elements
concentrated on the surface layer, and achieving higher levels of
production.
5.03      The extension service will also encourage farmers to refrain from
burning crop residues and the natural vegetation in order to help maintain
the organic matter level. The biomass would be used as mulching, or would
be incorporated in the soil during land preparatior.. The use of green



-40-
manure (lencaena, pigeon peas) would be encouraged as a substitute for
bush fallows. It is expected that the use of biomass to maintain and
improve soil fertility would not have a significant impact on crop output
during the implementation period, which will be one of testing and
promotion rather than extensive application.
5.04      At present, a significant but unknown percentage of farm
production (both legumes and grains) is lost to weevils and other pests in
household stores and trader warehouses. To reduce these losses, the
Project would import and distribute insecticide (pirimiphos-methyl) on a
trial basis to reduce damage during storage. It is anticipated that
farmers would use these products in extremely small quantities (primarily
for protecting planting seed), and that traders would be the principal
buyers. Post harvest technology trials would include testing of vegetable
oil treatment for insect control, as developed by IITA. In addition,
efforts to improve the design of traditional household storage (a platform
above the kitchen fire) are being made by PMKO (Cr. 1040-ZR); the lessons
of this experience would be passed on to Project area farmers through the
extension service and would complement the efforts described above.
Intermediate technology research would build on the experience of PMKO with
manual maize shellers, cassava grinders and simple cultivating tools.
B. Production
5.05      Out of the estimated 133,000 farm families in the Project area,
it is estimated that about 29,000 (or about 20%) will adopt Project
recommendations by the end of the Project period (1989). It is anticipated
that an additional 46,000 families will adopt these practices between 1989
and 1996, for a participation rate of about 60% at full development. The
distribution of families by major farm type is presented in the table
below.
Total            Number                Number
Number in      Participating        Participating
Model            Project Area         (1989)                (1996)
Dibaya                  20,100           12,000                12,000
Dibaya without         34,300              -                   20,600
forest 1/
Demba                   26,300            5,700                15,800
Kazumba                 31,600            6,850                19,000
Luiza                   20,700            4 475                12,450
Total            133,000            29,025                79,850
1/ In about five years farmers in parts of Dibaya and Dimbelenge zones will
lose access to forest lands due to deforestation, this farm model thus
becomes relevant after the Project implementation period proper.
5.06      As a result of improved cultural practices and use of improved
inputs recommended by Project Extension staff, yields of the major
foodcrops are expected to increase substantially. Yiela increases at full



-41-
development range from about 30% over without Project levels for legumes,
to about 90% for cereal crops (see Table 7); these yields are based on
experience gained in the PMKO area and under the PNE-K0 program. Area
cultivated is not expected to change, although the cropping pattern is
likely to evolve in response to dietary preference and market
opportunities. In general, the build up of incremental production at the
farm level is gradual, and stabilizes five years after initial farmer
adoption of Project recommendations. However, it varies considerably by
crop and by major farm type, due to changes in the cropping pattern.
Additional labor required to adopt improved cultural practices is well
within family labor availability, and no hired labor will be necessary,
even at peak periods. Production levels with and without the Project for
the five major farm types are presented in Tables 8a - e.
5.07      Full development for the entire Project area would be achieved
about 17 years after Project start-up.  This long lead time is due to the
gradual phasing in of participating farmers over a 12 year period (para
5.05) and to the five years required for achieving 'full development at
the farm level after adopting Project recommendations (para 5.06).
Production levels for the principal foodcrops without the Project and with
the Project at full development are presented below.
Without Project                With Project         Incre-
crop           Area   Average  Produc-    Area    Average    Produc-    mental  Production
Yield    tion                Yield      tion   Production  Increase
(ha)   (Kg/ha)   (t)        (ha)    (Kg/ha)    (t)        (t)          (X)
Maize         58,065      700    40,725    68,290    1,415    96,640    55,915        135
Groundnut     34,980      500    17,490    31,940       685    21,830      4,340       25
Cowpea        31,005      465    14,460    30,155       660    19,890      5,430       35
Soyabean        1,870     450       840      2,490      600      1,495       655       75
Paddy          6,960      400     2,785      6,960    i,000      6,960     4,175      150
Cassava       78,750   7,675   60$,430   71,795   10,640   764,000   159,570           25
Total      211,630                       211,630
5.08      Without the intensification of production made possible by
Project supported activities, production in the Dibaya zone would decline,
due to disappearance of forest lands, reduced fallowing, and declines in
soil fertility. It is estimated that this decline in production would
occur at a rate of 1% per year over a ten year period for savanna and
forest crops.   Production would stabilize thereafter.  The annual
production which would have been foregone, but which is to be maintained as
a result of project-supported activities (after stabilization), is as
follows: maize: 870 t (1997); groundnut: 980 t (1997); cowpea: 735 t
(1997);  and cassava:  25,940 t (1999).



-42-
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Markets and Prices
6.01      Zaire has been experiencing food deficits for a number of years
and has met deficit requirements partially through food imports. Maize and
wheat have been the principal commodities in short supply, but demand for
rice also exceeds local production levels.  Projections of production and
demand (on a national basis) show that demand for maize is likely to exceed
domestic supplies by about 275,000 t per year, while unmet demand for rice
amounts to about 208,000 t.  When national projections are broken down by
region, the immediate Project area and surrounding regions (Kasai Oriental,
Shaba) account for a large share of the national deficit; combined they
account for 85% of the maize deficit (Kasai Occidental: 47,000 t, Kasai
Oriental: 27,000 t, Shaba: 160,000 t) and for one third of the rice
deficit (Kasai Occidental: 5,800 t, Kasai Oriental 16,300 t, Shaba: 45,200
t). While foodcrop projects are underway in the area (PMKO, PNS, CEDERID),
incremental output is not expected to make a large dent in the regional
deficits, and imports are likely to continue for the foreseeable future.
6.02      Given this regional context, additional production generated by
Project activities would contribute towards meeting regional demand.
Principal markets for Project surpluses during the Project implementation
period (1985-89) would be Kananga, Hbuji Mayi and Tshikapa; in subsequent
years, the Shaba market is expected to absorb a larger share of marketed
output. Marketed grain output is expected to grow substantially over the
economic life of the Project. At the end of Project implementation (1990)
about 5,100 t of incremental maize production are expected to be marketed,
rising to about 23,000 t by the year 2000. Marketed incremental paddy
output is also expected to increase, growing from about 200 t in 1990 to
about 600 t in 2000 (tonnage figures are expressed ir terms of rice
equivalent). Marketed quantities of leguminous crops are also expected to
show a general increase over the life of the Project. No special marketing
infrastructure is required to handle Project output; however, investments
in transport infrastructure and vehicle fleets will be necessary (and are
provided under the Project, see paras 3.16-3.19) to ensure that traders are
able to evacuate Project area production effectively.
6.03      Project output is not expected to have a significant negative
impact on local prices as estimated marketed quantities represent a small
share of the regional deficit. At full development, marketed maize
surpluses (see 6.02) amount to about 10% of the regional deficit and paddy
surpluses to barely 1% (after conversion to rice equivalent). Minor
declinc3 in the maize price may be expected when the Shaba markets absorb
larger quantities of Project output, since traders will have greater
distances to cover between the farm-gate and consumer. Declines are not
expected to be substantial however (see Table 11 for projected prices). At
present, farm prices for foodcrops vary widely in the Project area,
depending on season and proximity to market. Pre-harvest farm prices are
usually about double post-harvest prices; however, due to the September
1983 devaluation of the currency, price levels in rural areas are adjusting
to changed circumstances, and it is anticipated that post-harvest prices



-43-
in 84/85 will be 60-75% of the pre-harvest level. Based on these
assumptions, 1984/85 post-harvest farmgate prices are estimated as follows:
maize: Z 7000/t (US$233); cassava (dry tubers): Z 3000/t (US$100); paddy:
Z 12,000/t (US$400); cowpeas: Z 12,000/t (US$400); groundnuts (shelled):
Z 14,000/t (US$467); and soya beans: Z 10,000/t (US$333).
6.04      Recent pricing and marketing reforms (see para 1.09) have already
had a noticeable impact on Project area economic activity. Farmers and
traders alike indicated that more trucks operated in the Project area in
1983 than in 1982, and that many came from Kasai Oriental in search of
surplus maize and cassava. This has spurred competition with local
traders, with the result that farmers were able to sell their crops for a
higher price. This process of market integration will be critical to
maintaining producer incentives in the Project area and, therefore, to
realizing Project objectives. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Government will continue to enforce its policy of free movement of
agricultural commodities between regions and of free-market pricing
(Government officials may no longer set prices administratively).
B. Financial Projections
6.05      The Project projected cash flow (Table 9) shows that in the first
three years of Project implementation, cumulative deficits would amount to
Z 21.7 million (US$0.7 million equivalent); during the next two years cash
flow would be positive, amounting to Z 58.8 million (US$2.0 million
equivalent). Revenues from cash sales of fertilizer, chemical products,
improved seeds and cassava cuttings would cover the expenses of buying,
transporting and selling them. These projections assume that Project
management would be able to fully recover the costs of these inputs (see
paras 4.10, 4.12). After Project implementation (1990 onwards) the Project
would require Government budgetary allocations of Z 16.9 million (US$0.5
million equivalent) to cover the costs of extension, infrastructure
maintenance, and management staff. An additional Z 52.9 million (US$1.8
million equivalent) would be required every fifth year to replace vehicles
and equipment for transport infrastructure improvement. These demands on
Government resources do not appear unreasonable, since extension services
and roads development will st'imulate economic activities in the region.
C. Farm Incomes
6.06      Total farm incomes, both Without the Project and at full
development With the Project (about eight years after adopting the new
technology package), are summarized as follows:



-44-      -
Farm Type
(Z I 000)
I      II      III     IV       V
Without Project
Gross income                           22.2    21.4      20.8    19.8   19.3
Production costs                        1.5      1.5      1.2     1.1    1.3
Net income                             20.7    19.9      19.6    18.7   18.0
Return to family                       50       50       48      47      46
labor (Z/manday)
With Project
Gross income                           31.8    32.9      30.8    29.2   29.1
Production costs                         1.8     2.4      2.6     2.7    2.6
Net income                             30.0    30.5      28.2    26.5   26.5
Return to family
labor (Z/manday)                     56       60       61      57     57
Additional working capital required to adopt the new technology varies from
Z 1100 to Z 1500 in the first year to Z 1600 and Z 2900 in Year 8. No
credit is being offered to cover any of this additional capital, because It
is anticipated that both on-farm and off-farm income is sufficient to meet
these additional investments. Incremental labor required is available and
no hired labor is needed. Farmers' net income with Project (excluding
value of family labor) increases between 42% to 53%, depending on farm
model. Returns to family labor show a modest increase, ranging from 12% to
25%.
D. Cost Recovery and Fiscal Analysis
6.07      Costs of providing inputs to farmers and traders under the
Project, namely fertilizer, chemical products and improved seeds, would be
fully recovered (paras 4.10, 4.12). Costs of other Project investments
(extension services, road maintenance) would not be recovered directly from
the beneficiaries as there is as yet no cost recovery mechanism for these
services. A Government cash flow is presented in Table 10. The main
foreign exchange costs of the Project would be the importation of vehicles
and equipment, fertilizers and chemical products. The main local currency
costs are in salaries and operating expenses. It is estimated that the
Project would result in an average net deficit to Government of about Z
17.0 million (US$0.6 million equivalent) per year after Project
implementation, increasing to Z 52.9 million (US $1.8 million equivalent)
every fifth year (see para 6.05). This would be partially offset by
increased duties on fuel, vehicles, and spare parts.
E. Budgetary System
6.08      Government budgetary procedures are complex and not well
understood within the technical ministries.  This has been a particular
problem for the agricultural sector, as DADR's budgetary requests have



-45-
traditionally not been well prepared and allocations have fallen far short
of needs. Obtaining release of approved allocations has also been a
problem, due to Government efforts to respect agreed ceilings under IMF
programs and to unfamiliarity of DADR and projects staffs with procedures
to follow. Inability to obtain funding in a timely manner has had a
particularly adverse effect on agricultural projects, as activities nmst be
undertaken in conjunction with the cropping calendar or not at all. The
Government is aware of the weaknesses in the functioning of the budgetary
system and is making efforts to improve resource allocation and financial
management both at the national and sectoral level. Progress is being made
in the areas of project accounting, subsector analysis, planning and
monitoring of projects. To support continued action in these areas,
agreement was reached at negotiations on an outline of an action program,
including elaboration of DADR's annual budget, financial management
procedures, performance indicators, and training of staff. Approval of the
detailed action program by IDA would be a condition of effectiveness.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Justification and Benefits
7.01      General.  The proposed Project constitutes an important element
of the Government's program to achieve food self-sufficiency.  Increased
production would substitute for food imports and would generate additional
revenues for the rural population of a particularly poor area of Zaire.
The Project would also make important contributions to institutional
development, notably by transforming the role of the agricultural extension
service and by supporting private sector market development. Project
implementation is also expected to have a positive impact on sector policy,
through agreements reached on cost recovery (paras 4.10, 4.12) pricing and
marketing liberalization (para 6.04), and financial management (para
6.08).
7.02      Quantified Benefits.  The Project would generate substantial
incremental production of maize, cassava, grounduts, cowpeas, paddy, and
soya, as outlined in para 5.07. Maize production at full development is
expected to more than double (135%), paddy production to increase by 150%,
soya productlon by about 75%, cowpea production by about 35%, and cassava
and groundnut production by about 25% each. In addition to incremental
production, Project activities are also expected to maintain foodcrop
production which would have been foregone without the Project, due to yield
declines resulting from shorter fallow periods and decreasing soil
fertility (see para 5.08). The increased production will increase
quantities available for home consumption by the rapidly growing rural
population as well as for market sales. Marketed production will primarily
supply Kananga (the administrative capital of Kasai Occidental), and the
mining cities of the Kasais (Mbuju-Mayi and Tshikapa) and Shaba.
Incremental maize and paddy production will substitute for imports of these
commodities and result in an estimated net foreign exchange savings of
about US$3.0 million per year (on average) starting in 1990.



-46-
7.03      Unquantified Benefits.  In addition to the benefits outlined
above, the Project would also contribute to considerable unquantified
benefits. The improved communications and marketing services resulting
from road rehabilitation and marketing investments would not only provide
incentives for increased agricultural production but would also improve the
quality of life of the rural population by increasing access to other goods
and services. Trials activities supported by the Project could have an
impact beyond the immediate Project area by providing information for
extension service agents throughout Kasai Occidental. Training activities
and on-the-job work experience would improve the skills of local Project
staff and contribute to long-term institutional development of DADR; in
addition, rehabilitation of the ITAs for use as training centers for
extension staff would have a secondary benefit for ITA students during the
normal school year. Lastly, adoption of Project recommended practices
would slow down the rate of forest destruction in the Project area and
would contribute to improved soil conservation practices.
7.04      Beneficiaries.  It is estimated that about 80,000 farm families
will benefit from Project activities. This target population is among the
poorest in Zaire and has not previously benefitted from large-scale
development efforts on their behalf.
B. Economic Analysis
7.05      For the purpose of the analysis, project benefits were based on
farm model estimates of incremental foodcrop production resulting from
improved yields (para 5.07). It was assumed that part of production in
Dibaya zone would have been lost without Project investments, and this
production maintained has also been treated as a benefit (para 5.08).
Incremental maize and paddy production was valued at import parity prices,
adjusted for marketing costs, based on Bank projections (see Table 11).
All other incremental foodcrop output (cowpea, groundnut, soya, cassava)
was valued at the estimated farm-gate price used in the farm budget
analysis (para 6.03).
7.06      With respect to off-farm costs, costs of the extension, extension
training, field trials, transport infrastructure, and project management
components were included in their entirety during the Project
implementation period (1984-89). Only the costs of insecticide procurement
and distribution (US$115,000 or 0.5% of Project costs) were excluded, due
to the pilot nature of this activity. During the post implementation
period (1990-2003) only the costs of the extension and transport
infrastructure components were continued at their full Project expenditure
level; management costs were assumed to decrease (due to streamlining) and
training, trials, and logistics support were expected to cease altogether.
Truck investments required to carry Project incremental output were
included in the analysis for the entire 20 year period.
7.07      With respect to on-farm costs, incremental costs for inputs were
based on farm budget analysis. Improved seeds and cuttings were valued at
a full cost recovery level and fertilizer has been valued based on Bank
projections adjusted for marketing costs. Family labor was valued at a
shadow wage rate of 50% of the going market wage in the Project area.



-47-
7.08      The Project's rate of return was computed over a twenty year
period. A standard conversion factor of 1.0 was applied, as it was assumed
that the Government would continue to apply exchange rate and tariff
policies which would eliminate distortions between international and
domestic price levels. With these assumptions and those outlined above
(paras 7.05-7.07), the Project has an internal rate of return of about 30%
(see Table 11). The present value of the net benefit stream is about
Z 880,000 (US$29,300 equivalent), at a discount rate of 12.5%. The high
overall rate of return reflects the rehabilitation nature of the Project
and the relatively low level of investment required to generate substantial
production benefits.
7.09      The Project's rate of return was tested for its sensitivity to
changes in cost and benefit levels and phasing. This analysis shows that
the rate of return is satisfactory under a variety of cost and benefit
scenarios, including lagging of benefits (see Table 12). It falls below
satisfactory levels (12%) if benefits fall by 50%, or if costs increase by
50% while benefits are delayed for three years; these eventualities are
considered unlikely. A number of additional variables were also tested to
determine their impact on the rate of return. Scenarios tested (all other
variables remaining equal) included: (a) standard conversion factor of 0.5
(to test the impact of exchange rate distortions); (b) Government financing
ceasing at the end of the Project implementation period and farmer benefits
stabilizing at the end-Project level; (c) delays in transport improvements
by one year, resulting in a two year lag in Project benefits; (d) no
production declines in the Without Project situation.  The results of these
tests showed that the Project's rate of return was not very sensitive to
these changes, with one major exception. A cutoff of Government funding at
the end of the Project period, with stabilization of production benefits at
that level ((b) above), results in an 8% rate of return; this underlines
the importance of continued Government funding of recurrent extension and
road maintenance activities on a long term basis.
C. Risks
7.10      The Project does not carry any unusual risks.  However, project
performance will be subject to some general risks associated with the
overall Zairian environment. These general risks include the possibility
of reimposing barriers to inter-regional trade and returning to a system of
administrative price setting for agricultural commodities. The Government
has stated that it intends to continue applying recent liberalization
measures, and covenants to that effect would be included in the Credit
Agreement (para 6b04). Shortage of qualified local managerial staff for
public sector development projects is another general country risk. Its
impact on Project implementation will be minimized to a certain extent by
making the appointment of key Project managers a condition of
effectiveness, and by stipulating that qualifications of managers must be
acceptable to IDA (para 4.03). Obtaining sufficient Government
contributions in a timely manner has been another recurrent problem for
agricultural projects in Zaire. The Government is making efforts to



-48-
improve resource allocation and financial management both at the national
and sectoral levels, and agreement on an action plan to improve performante
in this area would be reached at negotiations (para 6.08). At the Project
level, the most serious risk facing Project implementation is the fect that
the target population is largely subsistence oriented, and developing a
commercial production system may take longer than anticipated. The risks
outlined above do not appear in surmountable, and the likely benefits
justify supporting the proposed Project.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED ON CREDIT CONDITIONS
8.01      Conditions of negotiations were:
(a) Appointment of the Project Director (qualifications
acceptable to IDA) (para 4.03);
(b) confirmation from Government that the Project Unit has been
officially granted the use of the State-owned buildings at Fwamba, Demba,
and Kabuanga for the entire Project implementation period (para 4.05);
8.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
points:
(a) Policy Issues:
ti) the practice of agricultural extension workers imposing
fixed cultivation areas on the active adult population in the Project area
would be abolished (para 4.06);
(ii) improved seed and cassava cuttings would be sold at
prices that permit full cost recovery of production and distribution costs
(para 4.10);
(iii) fertilizers and insecticides sold in the Project area
would be valued at prices which permit full cost recovery of procurement
and distrJbution costs (para 4.12);
(iv) the Government would continue to permit free movement
of agricultural commodities across regional boundaries in the Project area
(Kasai Occidental, Kasai Oriental, Shaba); the Government would also
continue to observe a policy of not setting agricultural prices
administratively and permitting producers and traders to establish prices
freely (para 6.04);
(b) Management Issues:
(i) the Regional Consultative Committee (para 4.02), would
be established in time to review the first annual work program and the
first annual transport improvement program (by June, 1985);



-49-
(ii) terms of reference and qualifications of Project Unit
management posts would be acceptable to IDA (para 4.03);
(iii) terms of reference and qualifications of technical
assistance personnel and consultants would be dcceptable to IDA (para
4.04); and
(iv) OR would second the Infrastructure Service Director to
the Project Unit within six months of Credit effectiveness (para 4.17).
(c) Implementation Issues:
ti) all agricultural extension agents in the Project area
would be placed under the technical atithority of the Project Unit; the
Project Unit would have the right to transfer, hire, and fire extension
workers on the basis of professional performance criteria (para 4.06);
(ii) the SOFIDE-Government agreement would be signed within
six months of Credit effectiveness (para 4.13);
(iii) OR would provide manual maintenance on RN and RR
sections rehabilitated by the Project Unit mechanized brigade as part of
its normal annual work program (para 4.18);
(iv) OR would be responsible for procurement of mechanized
road rehabilitation equipment on behalf of the Project Unit (para 4.19).
Cd) Reporting Issues:
*i) the annual work program would be submitted to IDA for
review and comment by July of each year and for approval by October of each
year (para 4.22);
(ii) the Project Unit would prepare semi-annual progress
reports on project implementation for submission to IDA and Government by
April and October of each year (para 4.23);
(iii) t.e Project Unit would prepare a mid-term report
reviewing implementation experience during the first 21 years in
preparation for a mid-term review mission (para 4.24);
(iv) the Project Unit would prepare a Project Completion
Report by the Project completion date and DADR would review and submit a
final version of the report to IDA within six months after the Closing date
(para 4.25).
(e) Financing Issues:
(i) the Government would maintain pre-Project expenditure
levels in the Project area for the agricultural extension service, OR, and
manual road maintenance (para 3.25);



-50-
(ii) terms and conditions for using the Revolving Fund and
Special Account (para 3.27);
(iii) the Project Unit would maintain separate records and
accounts for Project activities, have them audited by external independent
auditors, and submit them to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal
year (para 3.30);
(iv) SOFIDE would maintain separate accounts for the credit
line managed for the Project Unit and provide its books for auditing by
Project Unit auditors (para 3.30).
8.03      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) establishment of the Project Unit (para 4.01);
(b) appointment of key Project Unit management staff (para
4.03);
(c) signature of Project Unit-ITA appropriate use agreements for
extension training activities (para 4.07);
1d) signature of OR-Project Unit agreements (acceptable to IDA,
DADR, and DTP) on secondment of management staff and
training support (para 4.17) and on procurement of
mechanized road equipment and use of maintenance facilities
(para 4.19).
Ce) approval by IDA of an action program covering preparation of
DADR's annual budget, financial management procedures,
performance indicators, and staff training (para 6.08).
8.04      IDA approval of the annual work program would be a condition of
disbursement against activities for the year to which it applies (para
3.26).
8.05      Subject to the above assurances the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 12.6 million (US$12.5 million) to the
Government of Zaire.



ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DADR Staffing - Kasai Occidental
Regional        Kasai        Lulua       Kananga
Services         headquarters  Sub-region  Sub-region  Sub-region  Total  (X)
Agriculture            10            240          292          45       587    59
Livestock              10             58           60          32        160    16
Rural
development        13             58           60          24        155    16
Inspectors/
support
services           14             24           26          25         89      9
Total                  47            380          438         126       991   100
DADR Staffing - Project Area
Lulua Sub-region                                Kananga Sub-region
SR Head-       Collec- Village          Sub-  SR Head-       Collec- Village          Sub-
Services         quarters Zone tivity   level  Other total  quarters Zone tivity   level  Other total Total
Agriculture          4      10      24    145 a/ 17 b/  200         4       6      6       25    -       41    241
Livestock            4      10      20      7      -      41        4       6      4        9    5 c/   28      69
Rural
development       4      10     20       8             42        4      6       3        7    -      20      62
Inspectors/
support
services          5      21      -       -    _        26        5     12      _        _     -      17      43
Sub-total           17      51      64    160    17      309       17      30     13       41    5      106    415
aJ   140 extension workers, 5 huissiers.
b/   Seed Farm staff:  (i) Salushimba; and (ii) Pania Santu.
c/   Kananga Slaughterhouse.



Table 2
ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PRO.XCT
Project Cosuonents by Year
(ZAIRE '000)
Post Costs                                  Total
1994     1985       1986     1987       1998       1989       ZAIRE   IUSI '000)
::::::: :::uzzxSu   *:S:SZS:  s::::uuuu uu:u:::rnu ::S::z::    3g3xU3 3St:gA5ggS
A. EXTENSION                                            209759o2 16,649.1  11,614.9  19,696,1  11,919.1   906535.3    2,694.5
P. TRAINING PROGRNA  FOR EXTERSION SERVICE           -   7s268,7  36526s2   1,266o2   2.228.7        866.2   15.176#0       505.9
C. FIELD TRIALS                                1,838.0   44085o5  2,584.5   3,109.5   3P892.0   2.822,0  I18331,3           611.0
D. SEED FARM                                  2,043.3   7,872.2  3,075.9   4,146.8   30429J3   4073942   259306.6           943,6
E. INPUT SUPPLY                                      -   4o455.9  6o773,5  14,956.9  28,115.8  40,064.6   949266,7    39142.2
F. MARKET SUPPORT                                    -  10,500.0 129000.0  150OO.             -          -   379500,0    tP250.0
0. TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE                          -  61.232s4 169193,1  22,291,2  22,099.2  19,901,2  141.617.1    4,720.6
H. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                         40135.3  220751.4 16,910,1  16,110.1  12,380.1   69890.1   79.067,0    24635,6
.......   .........  .... ..     ........   . . ...  .. ...     . .....    ... ...
Tolal BASELINE COSTS                            9,016,6 139,944,1 77,611.2  989395.5  919841.2  86t991.4  491,900.0   16,393.3
Ph,sical Continencies                           901.7  13,994.4  79761,1   89939.5   9.194,1   9.699.1   49.190,0    1,639.3
Price Contingencies                                 -   60113.5 100978,9  22,391.0  34.439s5  430164#1  1174076.0    3,902,5
Total PROJECT COSTS                             9.819,2 159952.1 96,351,3 119,616.0 135,463.7 138954.6  6589055.9   219935,2
ass:z::: us:ssuuxu  z2E:::: :ussu::uu Euuzzzuuuzn 3UUagus  atmucuso::s:W  :=:::
Taxes                                            40.0   5.130,3  6,643.0   9244.4   19439.0   1,750.9   24,247.6           90893
Foreign Exchange                             64351,9 1154076.3 49,676.4  63,297.2  76,473,9  69,697.8  379.573.4   12.652.4
Septembr 21, 1984 11144



ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Suur.v Account by ProJect Coumonent
(ZAIRE million)
TRAINING                                                                           Physical
PROGRAM FOR                                                                       Continencies
EXIENSION   FIELD   SEED  INPUT   MARKET       TRANSPORT      PROECT             -------------
EXTENSION    SERVICE    TRIALS  FARM  SUPPLY  SUPPORT  INFRASTRUCTURE  MANAGEMENT  Total    X    Amount
,uzuuuz   :.u:::1n:u.  usunas  :5::  33335w  us:uu:u    . . 3                    . ..          :5:3 ... . . . ..  ga:3333
I1 INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EQUIPHENT/SUPPLIES                        2.7           0.2     0.2   5.3      0.9        -             63,6         3.5   76.3   10.0      7.6
B. VEHICLES/SPARE PARTS                     18.3           1.9     3.8   3.0      2.4     37.5              4.5        10.4   B1.9   10.0      8.2
C. CIVIL WORKS                               5.2           3.0     2.2   2.7        -        -                -            -   13.1   10.0      1.3
D. FARM INPUTS                                 -             -       -     -    84,7         -                -            -   847   10.0     8.5
E. TRAINING                                    -           2.4     2,7   1.8        -        -                -          6.0   12.9   10.0      1.3
F. CONSULTANTS/TA                              -           1.2       -   2.0        -        -              B.O        28.0   39.2   10.0       3.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                         26.1           8.7     8.9  14.9    88.0      37,5             76.1         47.9  308.1   10.0    30.8
LII
w
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMANTAL SALARIES/ALLOWANCES         35.0          0.7      1.2   1.9      1.9        -             16.6         8.0   65,3   10.0       ..5
D. OPERATING COSTS                         16.1           4.8     7,3   8.0      2.9        -             47,3        14,6  101.0   10.0    10,1
C, PROPERTY RENTAL                          2.4           0.4     0,5   0.3      0.5        -              1.7         8.6   14.3   10.0       1,4
D.  LDG/EQUIP. MAINTENANCE                  1.0          0.6      0.5   0.2      0.8        -                -         0,0    3.1   10.0      0.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                          54.4           6.4     9.4  10.4      6.3        -             65.6         31.2  183.7   10.0    18.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                            8045          15.2    18.3  25,3    94.3      37.5            141,6        79.1  49l,8   10.0    49.2
Physical Contingencies                        8.1          1l5      1.8   2.5      9.4      3,8             14,2         7.9   49.2    0.0    0o0
Price Contingencies                          19.5           2.4     4.2   5.5    35.3       6.0             28.7        15.5  117.1    9.1    10.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                            108.0          19.1    24.4  33.3   139.0      47.2            184.5        102.5  658.1    9.1    59.8
Taxes                                         0.6           0.1     0.1   0.5      1.5     18.9              2.0         0,6   24.2    9.1       2.2
Foreign Exchange                             40.6           9,0    12,5  24,1    82.8      28.3            118.9        63.4  379.6    9.1    34.5            9
September 21, 1984 11144



-54-
Table A
-        SAIKE        - -
LLIUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOIPEIT PROJECr
DiAbgrerent- fra IDA Credt and IPAD Lan
ID'A              ITD              Parentagp
CUSS Thousands)   CUSS Thousands)    -D be financed
(C) Vehicles and EquIpant
(1) Vehiclee, spare parts and equipmnt (except for male to                 1.250              700           100 of totel expeodttures.
tranporters, transport Infraatructure. end seed farm)
(11) Vahclee and spare parts for male to transporters                        525              300            100Z of foreign exchanae by
Ciii) Vebitcls, Equlpmnt and Spare Parts for transport                     1,215              685            1002 of total expenditures.
t1fraatructure
(iv) Vehicleses Equipmnt and Spare Parts for seed farm.                      190              110           100 of total expeadituree.
Cb) Improved Input.
Ci) Purchase and transport of fertilizrr  nd tinsctctide-                    930              525           I00 of total expeoditurea.
Ctt) Purchase and transport of Improved seeds and cassava                    510              290            0I2 of total expenditures.
cuttings
(Cii) Distribution of fertilizers, Insecticides, Improved                    380              215            IOOt of total expenditurs.
seeds. and cassva cutting.
Cis) Purebse, transport and dlitribution of tools                           315              175           10Z of total expendituree.
Cc) Civil Works
It) Buildinip                                                                155               90            60Z of total ezpenditures.
(ii) lDridge  ad ferry boara                                                225               125            IW   of foreign expenditures
752 of local expenditures.
Cd) Tecbhncal Assistance
fxperts and manageent training                                             1,060              600            IOO1   of total expenditures.
(e) Studies and Audits                                                           160               90            10X of total expenditures.
(f) Iscremental Operating Costs
C1) Salaries, perforance bonuss and housing allowances                     1,150              650            1002 of total expenditures.
(ii) Vehicle operatitg costs                                                 700              400            2IW  of foreign expenditures and
'42 of local expenditures.
Ci) Office operating costs  (including lition office)                        4E0              270            1002 of foreign expediture and
602 of local expenditures.
(iv) Tral all*1ances and training expanses                                   265              155            IOO1   of foreign expenditures and
752 of local expenditures.
CO) Maul rod maintenanc                                                      115               70            402 of total expenditures.
Cvi) Mechanized road mAintensne                                             605               345           100 of foreign expeditures and
602 of local *xpenditur s.
(g) Amount withdrawn from Project Prearation Facility on credit                  290               -             1002 of amount ouottanding et
effectiveness det                                                                                            effective date.
h) Unallocateod ammout                                                         1,980              705
rz12,S00    6.1



-55-                            Table 5
ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Eativated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
(US S'000)
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year                        Quarterly                      Disbursements at
and Quarter                       Disbursements                       End of Quarter
1985
September 30, 1984 2/                    25                                    25
December 31, 1984 27                     35                                    60
March 31, 1985                          140                                   200
June 30, 1985                           200                                   400
1986
September 30, 1985                      300                                   700
December 31, 1985                       400                                 1,100
March 31, 1986 3/                       Soo                                 1,600
June 30, 1986                           500                                 2,100
1987
September 30, 1986                      500                                 2,600
December 31, 1986                     1,100                                 3,700
March 31, 1987 3/                       700                                 4,400
June 30, 1987                           600                                 5,000
1988
September 30, 1987                      600                                 5,600
December 31, 1987                       700                                 6,300
March 31, 1988 31                       700                                 7,000
June 30, 1988                           700                                7,700
1989
September 30, 1988                      700                                8,400
December 31, 1988                       800                                9,200
March 31, 1989 3/                       800                                10,000
June 30, 1989                           800                                10,800
1990
September 30, 1989                      600                                11,400
December 31, 1989 4/                    500                                11,900
March 31, 1990                          300                                12,300
June 30, 1990 5/                        300                                12,500
I/ Based on cost estimates with appropriate lags in disbursements
to reflect country experience.
2/ Disbursements under PPF.
3/ Reflects likely timing of fertilizer purchase.
4/ Completion date December 31, 1989.
5/ Closing date June 30, 1990.
September 24, 1984



- 56 -
'Cable 6
ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Four Year Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
for the Mechanized Brigade
(km)
Road        Section            Length in   Rehabili- Relocation  Upgrading
Proj.Area    tation    & Reopenlng
RIL       All Rural Roads         1,700         96          168      1,016
RN 39     Bangu-Luiza               88          22           22         88
RN 40     -ananga-Tahimbulu        120          12           40        136
RRI 707   Luiza-Bac Saiwanda        20           5            5         20
1R2 708   Luiza-Dibaya              90          18           30         84
RR2 709   Iananga-Luiza             180         36           36        216
RR 710    Tshiubulu-Dibaya          42          11           11         40
Total              2,240        200          312       1,600



57 -
Table 7
ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Yields
(rlg/ha
With Project
Without Project   (full development)   Z Increase
Maize on forest 1/             655               1,265                93
Maize on Savanna 2/            800               1,500                89
Intercropped Maize 3/          850               1,525                79
Cassava on forest            9,000              12,000                33
Cassava on savanna           7,000              10,000                43
Rice on forest 4/              525               1,000                91
Cowpeas                        450                 600                33
Intercropped Cowpeas           600                 780                30
Groundnuts                     500                 650                30
Intercropped Groundnuts        600                 780                30
Soyabeans                      450                 600                33
i/ Average of crop models grown on forest lands.
2/ Average of crop models grown on savanna lands.
31 Average of intercropped crop models.
Average of crop models grown on forest lands



-58-
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table Oa
DIBAYA FARK MODEL
Without Project          with Project (full dev.)
Incremental Production
Area     Yield     Productlon   Area   Yleld   Production   Production    Increage
(ha)    (Kg/ha)      (Kg)        (ha)  (Kg/ha)    (Kg)           Kg)
Maize            .43      735         317        .63    1,460       919          602           190
Covpea           .57      465         267        .57      620      355            88            33
Groundnut        .6       500         300        .4       650       260            -             -
Casava         1.1      7,635       8,400       1.1    10,635   11,700         3,300            39
TOTAL        2.7                              2.7
Table 8b
DIBAYA WITHOUT FOREST FARN MODEL
Without Project          With Project (full dev.)
I                              Incremental  Production
Area     Yield     Production   Area   Yield   Productlon   Production    Increase
(ha)    (Kg/ha)      (Kg)        (ha)  (Kg/ha)    (Kg)          (KG)            X
Maize            .43      820         352        .81    1,485    1,203           851           242
Cowpea          .57       465         267        .39      780      304            37            14
Groundnut        .6       500         300        .4       780      312            12             4
Cassava        1.1      7,000       7,700       1.1    10,000   11,000         3,300           43
TOTAL        2.7                              2.7
Table Sc
DEMBA FARM MODEL
Without Project         With Project (full dev.)
.                                   _  ~~~~~~~~~~Incremental  Production
Area     Yield     Production   Area   Yield   Production   Productlon    Increase
(ha)    (Kg/ha)      (Kg)        (ha)  (Kg/ha)    (Kg)                           X
Maixe            .88      670         590        .88    1,420      1250          660           110
Paddy           .2        400          80        .2     1,000      200           120           150
Cowpea          .27       490         132        .37      635      235           103           78
Groundnut        .3       500         150        .40      650      260           110            73
Cassava        1.0     8,000        8,000        .8    11,000    8,800           800            10
TOTAL        2.65                             2.65



-59-                                           TaSl. Si
ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVEWLPMENT PROJECT
KAZUMBA FARM MODEL
Without Project         With Project (full dev.)
Incremental Production
Area     Yield     Productlon   Area   Yleld   Production   Productlon    Increase
(ha)    (Kg/ha)       (Kg)       (ha)  (Kg/ha)    (Kg)          (Kg)
Maize           .8        650         518        .8     1,400    1,118           600           115
Paddy            .2       400          80        .2     1,000      200           120           150
Cowpea           .2       450          90        .3       600       180           90           100
Groundnut        .3       500         150        .4       650      260           110            73
Cassava        1.0      8,000       8,000        .8    11,000    8,800           800            10
TOTAL        2.5                              2.5
Table 8&
LUIZA FARM MODEL
Without Project          With Project (full dev.)
_ _  _                         ~~~~~~~Incremental  Production
Area     Yleld      Productlon   Area   Yield   Production   Productlon    Increase
(ha)    (Kg/ha)      (Kg)        (ha)  (Kg/ha)    (Kg)          (KG)            2
Maize          1.2        705         844       1.2     1.325    1,591           747            89
Soya            .15       450          68        .2       600      120            52            77
Cowpea          .35       450         158        .3       600       180           22            14
Groundnut       .4        500         200        .4       650      260            60            30
Cassava         .65    8.230        5,350        .65   11,230    7,300         1,950            36
TOTAL        2.75                             2.75



-O                            Table 9
ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURA=TDVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cash Flow a/
c Z '000)
Year                           1984      1985      1986    1987      1988      1989     1990-2004
Receipts
External Financing           8,778   139,500   81,500   99,900  120,700  121,230           -
(IDA & IFAD)
Cash Sales
Improved Seeds                   -       693    1,134    1,827    2,730    3,759    3,465
Cassava C4ttings                 -          -    2,282    6,143   11,681   16,322        700
Fertillzer                       -        774    2,974    7,903   16,096   27,805          -
Chemical Products                -        158      395      632       948    1,185         -
Sale of Consumption Maize/
Cassava Tubers                -        84       228      616       805      875      945
Tools                            -        240      608    1,205    2,023    2,938          -
Recovery from Roads Office         -      1,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000
TOTAL            8,778   142,449   91,121  120.226  156,983  176,114    7,110
Disbursements
Training Program for
Extension Service              -     8,338    4,378    1,713    3,287    1,383          -
Extension                        -    23,747   20,668   15,717   29,051   18,864    3,567
Field Trials                 2,022     4,674    3,208    4,208    5,741    4,504          -
Seed Farm                    2,247     9,006    3,818    5,612    5,058    7,565    3,517
Input Supply                     -     5,097    8,409   20,104   41,470   63,951          -
Credit for Truck Purchase        -    12,012   14,898   20,298         -         -        -
Road Infrastructure              -    70,050   20,103   30,164   32,596   31,606    66,565 b/
Project Unit                 4,549    26,028   20,869   21,800   18,261   10,982    3,275
TOTAL            8,818   158.952   96,351  119,616  135,464  138,855   76,924
Surplus/ (Deficit) -
Deficit to be financed by
Government contributions         (40)  (16,503)  (5,230)      610   21,519   37,259  (69,814)
Cumulative Surplus/(Deficit)       -   (16,543) (21,773) (21,163)      356   37,615  (32,199)
a/ Based on project cost tables to year 1989
b/ Replacement of road vehicles/equipment every 5th year - Z 52,886,000
September 24, 1984



ZAIU                                                                             Table 10
LULUA ACOICULTUUL DBVILOPKINT PIOJECT
Govetomnt Pro1ected Cash Flow
Tr.1   Yr,2       Yr.3   Yr,4    Yr.5    Yr,6    Yr,7    Yr,8    Yr,9    Yr,10   Yr,11   Yr,12   Yr-13   Yr,14   Yr,15   Tr.16   Yr,17   Yr,18   1r 19   *r.20   X,21
A. Infloew
IDA Credit              1.8    31.2      78.0    78.0    87.0    81.0   15.7 
Co-Vina  etr Lo4a       -       16.1     40.2    40.2    47.0    43.7   11.8         -        -        -                -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -
Office des Routes       -        2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0    2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0
Revenue from mates
of  g:T. inputs      _         1.9      7.6    18.3    33.3    52.9    5.1         5.1      5.1      5.1     5.1      5.1      5.1      5.1     5.1       5.1     5.1      5.1     5.1      5.1      5.1
Refunds an sale of
truck 4  Interest   -         -         4.5    10.1    17.6    13.1    7.5
TOTAL           1.8    51.2    132.3   148.6   166.9   192.7   42.1           7.1     7.1      7.1      7.1      7.1     7.1      7.1      7.1     7.1      7.1      7.1      7.1     7.1      7.1
5. Outflow,
Project activities    8.8   158.9        96.4   119.6   135.5   138.9    -           -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -
Govt. contributions-
Recurrent cost       -        -         -        -        -       -      20.0 bI 20.0 bJ 20.0 b/ 20.0 b/ 20.0 b/ 20.0 b/ 72.9 ab  24.1 b/ 16.5  b/ 16.5    16.5 b/ 16.5 bl 20.4 bl 69. Sb/ 16.5 h/
IDA Terms a
Co  {tet7ieurvLceI
Charges              0.8     2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7     2.7    2.7       2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7      2.6      2.6     2.6      2.6      2.5     2.5      2.5      2.5      2.4     2.4
Uepayment-cepital       -       -         -                 -        -      -        -        -       -        3.7      3.7      3.7      3.7     3.7      3.7      3.7      3.7     3.7    317       11.2
Cofinencier Ter" I/
CoMten5t/Bervice
Cbargee               -        1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5    1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5      1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4     1.4      1.3      1.3
Repaynt Charge          -       -         -        -        -               -        -        -       -        2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      6.0
9.6   163.3    100.6   123.8   139.7   143.1   24.2    24.2    24.2    24.2    29.9    21.8    81.6    33.8    26.2    26.1    26.1    26.1    30.0    78.7    37.4
met Cash P1w,          (7.8) (111.9)    31.7    24.8    47.2    49.6   17.9   (17.1)  (17.1)  (17.1)  (22.8)  (22.7)  (75.5)  (26.7)  (19.1)  (19.0)  (19.0)  (19.0)  (22.9). (71.6)  (30.3)
l/ Includes investment colts for ecquisltion of road equipment and vehicles Z 52.9 million and operctional expenoes  of Z 13.7 sillito.
/ Itcludtg operat1on1l exprox for road components 2 13.7 million of which Z 2.0 million Is refunded by Road Office (Office des Routes).
_/ Comiteent charge 1/2 of IX p,o. payablo on undisbursed  mount.
Service cbaog 3/4 of 1I p.s. payable on outstanding credit aount.
Principal repayments of 1 from years 10 - 20 and 32 from years 21 - 50.
| m  as IDA term.
September 24, 1984



-62-
70E                                                                           Table'Tableau It
Uw aml   Tuas aw                                                                   ad   s or btn or t Lat,...
ci earn
1934    3935    1900    LWr   390         113?  l             n1"  191    11"  19   199     3M       I1       1"?7   i11    39?    20m          21    70         33
Ff1=3                                   20       20      20       20      2D       20       2       20      2        2        20      a        20      21       20      2D       20      20       20      20
wons
ii1eimITKI.    Ei   lTI
POLIZE                      W                                   1442    33       60    1715   164   M9    30412   373G    440   41                  5193   540       MM         74   590nu         5   5315
w                                        -        -      60      137     32       155    1O6       51     2137     23    304    342          3n      3936    4075    4143    416       4176    4176    4176
_IITW                                    -        -       -        -       -        -       -        4     461    304?    3747    240    3062    3170   3290    4207    4373    434             4342    434
IYA 2   -67                                                              192      417     92    L0        190      24      32       3       43       43       336    M70    5473                53    5 S
S                                        -        -       -      240    1416    3193    79       35M    25zm    391   54514   7 6   9175  I10              36       1407  149    I37   150732  152
SIM                                     -        -      10       25      53      104      IZ       D7     319      37      477      537     34        2      631    649        63      614        4     654
FUM  mim Der   in
MIE                                      -        -       5       20      77      iso     in       2J      420      576     732      19      34       VI       VI      371      VI      VI       VI       VI
m                                        -           -       -        -       -        -    -   33   46   d57  m30                           9    93    M   93 m                         M m           m m
5199                                     -        -       5       33      43       *2     162      254     365      43      67        73     71       734     734      734      734     734      734     734
mimI                                     -        -       -   tU         50      1414    2        54      3064   11        147   3         223    MM3   253182   234    24    23               M4       5942
r11ZE                                    -        -       9        9                9       9        9       9        9 *              3        3       0        0       3        8       3 *              3
PAW                                      -        -       l       12      12       13      14       14      14       14      24       14       34      14       14      34       14      14       14      14
_aulEr                                   -        -      14       14      14       24      14       14      14       34       14      34       14      14       24      14       14      14       14      14
cows                                     -        -      12       12      12       12       12      12       t2      12       12      12       12      12       U2      12       12      12       12      12
caleB                                    -        -       2        2       2        2       2        2       2        2       2        2        2       2        2       2        2       2        2       2
SB                                       -        -      10       30 1t             10 le   l       1       1        30      10       10       1       10       10      30       10      30       10      t0
W43OF ImIFtTIIL FCIuroN
AIZE                                              -     30    320    27    WM             4    144   M29         27U3  25010  33   301113  410119  -                43      44035  441LV5  441729  44372
rawS                                     -        -     672             44       I535   354   227 2N 31    340U    4151  46170   502101                  55033         3M         2   5M 376   56376   53
aumi-                    -          -         -              -         - -            -            so -   *7e34 34686 2443 tA344  423  .  una M m M M w  uMM  MM  M
*EA                                                     144      00     722    5-44   14624   161    MIN    29152   3n?7   OM6   5.17   5 2   6162   44    6307   6541  M61    15146
Cm                                       -        -       -      360    2124    4710  2193   223         314   5 7   371  104  137I63  1                9  1 72  21N u   242334  739  2               73
SEA                                      -        -     3i0      250       0    14       b263     2e7     3190    393    40    3301     S4              O    6         49      630    a64       60    60
m         a ta, mIm                      _    _  47 1656  39    311  13 215   M3  41M  44 s1  6343  7434  7162t4 32476                                                               3     3  
mix                                                      43  172               ez    INS  2D4  3305 SMM   3                         620  66   a    a   a    an   31  -    S 
_m rM-                                                    -        -       -        -       -   4as       at4    9193   tiSt   12572  1U272 1362              - 1     L92  1313i    1337               13692
-                                        -        -      6       216     516 1 104   41t4    343    43                6    7404 7M OM t V                             iNS M33    03  t I                9
-      -        -     120      74    2121    443    11   3             179    24043   2933         I 33195        333   3M39     3913   31933  N31    31113
w m IFICS tTID  Tmtam                    -        -     103      50     1957    4115    3010   IW5   270          3315   4955   s3u        16a 7            6719  60 94  60M     4        47    09    a44
THIS.L Mae=                              -        -    41    16176   4U17          4   1213  2300   330   4      4540   M536    39        7320   308       W33    9      9   M6    93e        MM   T
E01W11m3N                                -   343    22         1443   24003   133    214    133   197             11947   19       132i   113       339     39       1394    2152   10    31947   33113M
TRIALS                                201     44t1    230    34         42       39M2
rIANt                                    -   3013   1ze    I212 3  567   IM1            127    220   16830   20790   Zl            31430   37420   410    440         4640            57470   M4       24
_UET  DFimtmtIM                          - OM2  IWO 24M09  MI  2135  W5 n220  23162  7012D  2020 35  23620                                                   202020020  34115 200MM   20
m1 t N        E TT                    45     24925   14        1743   3327    7477    44          4       469      3521   I2S2      33    469        3n21    25 3             46               351    35Z1 
TOTLS  FFW   F  tl CM35   l366   719    704t   735   SW    32071   0612   645   56223   61234  134    I1    MU054    09                                              34   1333   335    *0             119674
Dltl98BIL D FON CUMI
IUZE                                     -        -     444      IM     138    2192    380    45          536      613    7318    506                839      25" V9    05    on?    06        33       Us
MM141C-MM                                                 -        -       -3-5-                     -       -        -       -        -        -       -     254    5M3        769     70       76      70
Cal0DE                                   -        -      3I      205     19       3n      64       545     55       473     354       a               VD      3on1    13    313    13    13    325
390833                                   -        -      13       26      35  n           13       17      233      273      39      3        31      364     364      364      364     364      364     364
C SS      TIDIS                          -        -       -    241    Was          33   131    3722   17632   2332    23z          244   2157    2 3 22              2367    383   23MM    231         7a72 4
V                                        -        -     324    1247    3190 e       5   1        35377   21317   217    342   41337   43            491113   504   517   $13    S39           5mt   SIM
1                                                                  d -  2   226  0       214 9 7  32 1413   l3    2637  25?    30120   34           215    3706    371    37ms    23           37n33   3703a
FfILM                                                  142      292    193       =      6339    92        2        0     D33        M     33625   37690   400       43803   4420       47   6898         M7
MlMS D2    4     L ON FGM ma MS          -            -         3172 570   i 4U  2-     4213    0961   75Ys         0    1116  133so  1437   1523  120   36661  130   16w3                   1m30   13451
lOIS. miS                              W5 13Ts        7337    76327   NW        MMs  zL4   221643  1400  33136  1S50  260                 M3       234177  24303   M        3M3  2576    57           2625
NET S115-                                  -         -63   -59    -4670D  -2718   -1  17t33P  19743  2 4   25 0  37109   3M7M4  574474  6M037    a5u   525  67W3                                 206  01307
hat  16. 134  137



ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity AnAlysis
PRESENT VALUES OF NET STREAHS AT A DISCOUNT RATE OF 12.5%
o.1      UP 10%       UP 20%       UP 50%    DOWN 10%    DOWN 20%    DOWN 50%  LAD 1 YFAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
Cot             879s930,3 1,060096549  1242,001.6 1,785s108.5   698.894.7   517,859.0   -25,247.9   678,779.6   4991979.0   341,045.1
UP 1OX          786,887.7   967,923.3 1.148.959.0 i.69?,065.9   605*852.1   424,816.4  -1IB,290.5   585,737.0   406,936.4   248,002.5
UP 20%          693,845,1   874488007 1,0550916.4 1,599,023.3   512,809.5   331,773.8  -217i333.1   492,6044   313,893.8   154,959.9
UP 50%          414,717.3   595,752.9   776,788.5 1,319,895.5   233,681.6    52,646.0  -490i46049   213,5h666    34,765,9  -124,168.0
DOWN IO        972,972.9 1,154,008.5 1,335,04442 1,878,151ol   7910,37,3   610,O901,6    67094,7   771,822.2   593,021,6   434,087.7
DOWN 20X      1,066,015.5 1,247.051.2 1,4ZP,0864.  10971.193.7   884,979.9   703,944.2  .1604837.3   864.64,8   686,064.2   527713103.
DOWN 502      1,345,143.3 1,526,179.0 1,707,214.6 2,250,321.5 1,164,107.7   983,072.1   439,965,2 1,143,992.6   965,192.0   806.258,1
LAO I YEAR               -            -            -           -            -            -            -   782,160,3   603,359.6   444,425.7
LAO 2 YEARS             -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -   695,253.6   536,319.7
LAO 3 YEARS             -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -   618,003,2
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STREAMS
8.1      UP 10%       UP 20X       UP 50%    DOWN 10%    DOWN 20%    DOWN 50%  LAO I YEAR LAD 2 YEARS LAB 3 YEARS
Co1                30.939       33.453       35.766       41,832       28.168       25.057       11,615       25.047       20,862       17.754
UP 10%             28.432       30.939       33.234       39.213       25.653       22,507        8,358       22.952       19.057       16.17?
UP 20%             26.139       28.651       30.939       36.860       23.335       20,133        5,017       21.022       17.391       14,713
UP 50%             20,133       22.731       25.057       30.939       17.165       13,660       -7,497       15.930       12.998       10.884
DOWN 102           33.720       36.257       38.602       44,790       30.939       27,841       14.903       27.350       22o841       19.487
DOMN 20%           36.860       39.439       41.832       48,187       34,049       30.939       18.330       29.923       25.040      21,4J1
DOWN 50X           50.095       52.981       55,691       63,021       46.998       43,635       30.939       40.406       33.846      29.04R                 H
LAB I YEAR               -            -            -           -            -            -            -       30.939       25,047      20.862
LAD 2 YEARS              -            -            -           -            -            -            -            -       30.939       25.047
LAO 3 YEARS              -            -            -            -            -            -           -            -            -       30.939                I-A
0



* -           - 64-
ZOIRE
WLUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Orgarnion of Depadment ofAgicuIUrO and Rural Development
(-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       MAA (CfM
I                                                                              Ie
<    :~~ I                          I         S
I                I _ 1 1
L4~~J rr---
LL
I                  &              &    Iw
I
1. ~ ~   ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ 15
1                        Ve| 11ntem1on
r                                 I SlcesQ Ax I l        1 1 1
r 1l
COIIKII <                                  Adul Eo*-
t~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 80r a*-2M97



ZAIRE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODALU Organilzation Chart
Secofaoy 
DAMt          
| eportrrenl                   Dept       
Adrrmio        |    r          S tcas-  A
|    om                            OvottooI
Deouty DtecloI/                             Doputy Diroctot |D                                           r/
Technilcol                              Lnatroftute                                         Admi|nisttratio
KH 3hg             SOMC Chi         c;;  .;v    Io~e SrcNeCb/|   Dovuty Chet/l                                           SoWCO Che        OV    I~   SeWlce Chie  I              ~IeF 
Wortnd Bonre-2S59tS



R . ,., .H  I. 
A~ ~         --  |    |                                                               -. i  '  -.-              u     -i-i-  --:
F       r ______       t                                                       -                                                    - -  2111        
~~~_   _                                 1_ .. ...... _  _    ..._._I_ . __        _      -         _      :          ...___  __.....      
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .... _....._  -m-i-~~~-
._ ,.  ...                                          ,___.. ... .=_ .!'.        _ 
ff  i4 i 4     i 9;       5 t   ti |  tt 9 t    t a  }{ 2 f    t   || i tt t |      | ff    ff S    |  : 
:~                 ~ -l'                                                  XXF
}':   i                                                            _                          .~4 



-67-                               ANNEX 1
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Document No.
A. Sector/Sub-sector Reports and Studies
Al   DADR, "Plan de Relance Agricole, 1982-1984",              108.515 A
le 11 juin 1982.
A2   DADR, "Evaluation du Plan de Relance Agricole,            108.515 B
1982-1984", octobre 1983.
A3   EAPCA, "ZaIre: Updating Report on the Implementation   109.296 A
of the Agricultural Recovery Plan, June 1982-October
1983", December 16, 1983.
B. Project Related Reports and Studies
Bi   FAO Investment Center, "Rapport: Zaire Projet de          108.263 A
Developpement Agricole de la Lulua, Mission de
Preparation", le 18 aodt 1983 (No. 88/83 CP ZAI 19)
C. Implementation
Cl   Implementation Volume (Table of Contents):                108.296 B
.Annex I Detailed Cost Tables
Annex 2 Implementation Arrangements
Annex 3 Agricultural Aspects
Annex 4 Transport Improvement Program
Annex 5 Economic Analysis
C2   Agronomic Working Papers                                  108.296 C
C3   Road Maintenance Background Papers                        108.296 D
C4   Regional Population Statistics/Maps                       108.296 E
C5   PNE Background Papers                                     108.296 F
C6   OXFAM Programs in Project area                            108.296 G
C7   Department of Agriculture Annual Reports -                108.296 H
Regional and Zone Levels



20  ~~~~~~~  2r  22                                            2A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EMUA~~~~IRY 198*
\  io   t-   :),,,~~i                      i2'                    i3'                    id -                 EBSRU^ lCII^
\ EQUA TrEL'R                                           ZA IR E
r%  Y<. -5.sfOMArE 0                           LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-
.  .  | KASAI OCCIDENTAL- ADMiNISTRATIVE  DIVISIONS
Project Area
E   fSA Z O~~~~~~~GA   :>  '@                        * ~~~~~~ Regional Capitol
. .    /ALONGA
g     A   Z/NI                                                            Sub-Region Capitols
NA TIOIVAI         4
( /                   .y       1 ^ ^ ~.                           O   Zone Capitols
PA RK                                                    -      Roads of General Interest
3   .              - f                          _                          R o ilroo d s
Collectivity Boundaries
E D             E                                                 Zone Boundaries
(         0 +                       -  -  Sub- Region Boundories
Recion Boundaries
Internotionol Boundaries
i   -  ;                            1-1
I0 2    so  75  10o
I L             0                                                                                Ki fV       55
V              ,,,                                                                          5  s' 
Cf                                    t;ENt +,)t' ?.w   The N
r. id..f.      )              LU E BO                'Xr  '-~                                          '-----.''.
@7OW - GIT. YA a
awu..w0 W  F-Ce..r
.~ Sf                               (<    to Mh.,~. Me,,,                          >        O     S A  C   -
/LLr  K       .)~     D I(BPA'-                       26                       -
TSHIKK*At-PA   // t-  -A-  IL.2.;-S6 o-
CAMEROAN N  G-
-.- -!         - I2*   g    3A                                           -I  rI
7.                                                                            GABON (~~~ L-~~  7.*REI.U8:CrJ
HALBA                    ANGOLA~~~~TH
30'  31'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0Z                                                    R%rv
1-67~~~~3



20'                        21'                        22                          23'                        24'
V                      ~~~EQUIArEUIR (ZAR
-LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -
'- <      ,,                                     \   MAJOR TRANSPORT ARTERIES AND URBAN CENTERS
Project Area
---National/Regionol Roads maintained
by Project
> .. . u . _. =  _/ Rural Roads maintained by Project
S .....                                      .    National/Regional Roads maintained by OR
        Al    .                                                  -4'- /9 ..... : C ^1 /     .Railroads
(   River Ports
f              /           \~~~~~~~~~~~~1ornam/a                   FFerries
-                                                     /2 ,, ,4),i   /   , S10mG/o  +   \Airports
3  .1/  /                                      ft ~ o-  2 Mining Centers
,/ -~ 2 )                               A  Major Food Markets
X  _ _- -                                                                 u V  V   Sector Headquarters
~  EKE   SE              P                                          z  Temporary Sector Headquarters
.  4 * ~ t  1 >-a';      D   E  K> E  S  E        :          O                               a        Seed Form
. ...- .   -        Dekes.                          e                              Troining Centers
--- Zone Boundaries
Sub- Region Boundaries
A k    to Kole    ae        ~ @-  Region Boundaries
-,              -r-'- _@_Internotional Boundaries
.4.0    'IYK                                                              I-I  N                                                                       4-
[ 4 !  4tr=F   i     --k- -9 r                                                       %



I1:, R 4 ii:   r tedaries
I  to t-o   Region Boundaries
I .-zr               --  International Boundaries
To 5U/W79                                                M  W EK A     i           ,      
     A  ~~~~~~~~'     \ ~~~~~M W  E K A                                      R          
1 ,  L          E\   B C,,                 M'5w e;ko~/'                                                          9     2   5   0   75     t00
t 5 ~~~~~I  L  E             0B                    we a                                           >X Lusambo '''  
-S'  8!  /  t  n   >  ' +C-7F j o .  KILOMETERS    5'
?                                   D  kf <  ,i   B A \D MB$L  NGE o                        24                          25'
to /o                                                         U                        O t 9>   trv\>2)  imb.ISne' KANANGA SUB-REGION       N
roio IdooE  )s
1-i-' t..M.141
6-  ~     ./ m              .6                                                                                               m
Mbuji-                 . -, 
~Kmadu
A N G O L A | ) Srslu~shik   m      b      a           K   (ui                                    --------------
T$&fle9-rrv te@efrJ                { S H IAK A P A                      'Komii  4 A                                                   4_
20'                         2|1'                  *      2,2'                         23'                               20'   r                      s 4CAMGAOON\
HArZAIRE
r                                                                        p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPULI8LC)'
(.  ~       ~      ~                      M.I~~~~.ond.                              OC /0EN~~~~~~~~~ NASA?)~~ O
.-;~~~~~~~\    iI          .~~~~~~~        co     o     -~Z    A..  R,
I       I  ~~~~Z    A_ _ 
A  NG  0  LA
TIPM ,,.a~ps b e.Paewd by The WbMb05B,S SWJ A61* IN NWi WWROMO ofSA
Mu ,-..hS &,f. 6.C"A* 90V IWIW ..0   of00  TRO khU B.* .0d t. Wb-h,.Of                                                                     HA   
FrOnce Co'vah85w r  dwnamibo" ued 005 fti bof.0usdICw ml   NW m to     da 005                                                       0
np00'. an Mu pj.t of The WO0W BSot aMW f 1WM01011 FoOte C0Ma8901y XWrVA51EV                                        ANGOLA 
20             21*                   (~~~~~~~~~~~~~f tSau,,mo                     ~L~\((
22H    A)                   A



Z A I R E
LIJLUA  AGRICULTURAL
4 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAJOR FOODCROP PROJECTS
IN SAVANNAH BELT
MAJOR FOODCROP PROJECTS:
E=   CODAIK (IDA/GTZI
CEDERIM  (FED)
EZJ LULUA (IDA/ IFAD)                     |
PMKO (IFAD/IDA)
OIML  PNS (USAID)
-- Major Rivers
o   Major Cities                       (I
e   Region Capitals
Region Boundaries                (    MBANDAK.-
Internotional Boundaries        - 
PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC
OF THE CONGO
KINSHASA'
BA    ZARE   f
J BoJmATA DI                     I
;  ANGOLA
A in f, r  1
C HAD        SUA             rI
NIGERIA                                       -
)_....-CENTRAL  >.
r                      ~~~~~~~~~~~0 100
EOUAMORIAL    0N.  .                                       10     20o
GUINEA                 _                                   KILOMEIE-..
~~~ ~~Th.s anl hias bnnl pwspa
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 GABON               Wol aW .lf e.
.5\   ~  z b I R E   ib-                   n,ANDAN     rarrs-
rBdRUNDI
ANEANIA            ,    l The WoStd
ZAN         .mcd the Intwnohonal Fear
_     w                             12'  =or dflr b-' Zt1 7
a'on  dts d not Wlr'v.
)   -_>. Sl        5>}~~~~~g .nt in,- itMkl frinc Ca,
C  c  o n    ANGOLA 1                            an d         on Ihe Ie@at
/     Z A M B I A  - <  I C  ~~~~~~~of mav feIfonhrv a, snr
/  f  ZAMbIA ~       ~ ~       2w~ wc-IN
;-  _ > *   r  5     n  lch nondar,s
*~*-~-  r'00~RARWt, i_                   _



IBRD 17993
20  CENTRAL  AFRICAN                                                   28'                    AUGUST 1984
X kL                                     REPUBLIC                                                       S U D A N
rs T
cGemeno
-T5:        ff                            ~Buto                                                 0IsuroBo
H A  l T   ZA IRE
C.   \    .                                                       Bunia0   y
/  EQUATEUR    \                                                                      c                  . . ur
\                          l          t      ---Et~~~~~~~~~KISANGANI      <          
(  >;MBANDAKA              0Boe.de                                                                         I
;2/.;>$ -r,: ~~Boende      
/A;S' ~~~~~~-                                                                        710\<  '\    .gr    .
tS-we.~~K K-\\ %t    
\    g                      ~~~~~~Gomo 
i*                                                 K                                           Gma. .vd or.< 4 . _ .. t _ _gS \ . ... >, jRWANDAI
ii--      >  SX-<-l;J                    \                               BUKAVUt/
Kind 0   K   I   v   a 
BANDUNDU                                                                                               Uvra BURUND'tI/V t  \
*!l   5  ~~~~t  |                       rJ                                Usgrol~~~BURUNDIJ
4t.
j ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
xt$ ;'u-~\ JoK                     -                                 e
kwit       L.      .      \                                                               - ;iu          >
Tsbimbulu0                                    k1Z                   )       . Kofnin
01o|                                                            S   Hf   A    B A                      .
_ |    0       1~10  00   360D
_-IIz  .1                                                                                                i
<               KILOMETERS                                           Kowz
-lh VV,|Hd alh's taff -^bU-4v              t*                                    Likos            t
a. .A     ntrrnarusOfrrrrrn. W-i j-                                      t.LUBUMBASHI
5  ~    ~~~~ In mS nW do no,lv nM  VW                                                                                            12e   5 
*1L_._~IM' rrof Thr IVrWlRal]rk ana the  S{*    
2     D   -  mj  r ldnn orr k!Q5.W1u | W
'~~~~o am 1> d  mV rnor-o vw
-Y          - f mn*ot 0,Wrccr..rtof                                                  Z A  M  B I A                  ;
u c   s-hrl rxx ot.s   2D           !               2G                                 78
00    200                                                                2o



