DT ametof
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CR. AYo-2A
RePsut No. P-3907-ZR
REPORT hND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TEIE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO UStl2.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR THE
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 13, 1984
TIs uwoM  ha a es1tHudem =W my be used by recim  only inhe perfemauce Of
tlei offiei iull s le    u y  t aherwise be dchewd wkbout Wodd BDunk authrtieo.



Currency Equivalent 1/
Currency Unit   =      Zaire (Z)
Zaire 1.00       -    US$0.033
US$1.00                Z 30
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)                 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)      =     0.62 mile
1 sq kilometer (km2)  =     0_386 square miles
1 sq meter (m2)       =     10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)    =     1.13 cubic yards
Acronyms
DADR     Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Developmenc
ITA     Agricultural Technical Institute
OR       Roads Authority
PIP     Public Investment Program
FXKO     Kasai Oriental Maize Project
PRODALU Lulua Agricultural Development Project
SOFIDE   Development Finance Company
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
1/ On September 12, 1983, Zaire introduced a transitional dual exchange
rate regime comprising an official rate and a free market rate. The
two rates were unified on February 28, 1984, and a weekly float of
the rate was introduced. The exchange rate shown is the rate
applicable at the time of appraisal (November/December 1983). The
rate on December 1, 1984, was Z 38.85 to the US dollar.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ZA
LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AMD PROJECT SUM
Borrower:                  Republic of Zaire
Amount:                    SDR 12.6 million (US$12.' million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard IDA Terms
Project Description:       The Project would increase foodcrop production
in the Lulua and Kananga sub-regions of Kasai
Occidental Province. Project activities would
include: (i) strengthening extension services;
(ii) carrying out field trials;  (iii) providing
inputs (improved seeds, tooIs, fertilizer,
insecticides); (iv) supporting marketing
activities of private traders; Cv) selective
maintenance of transport infrastructure; and
(vi) training. Consultant and technical
assistance support would be provided.
Benefits:                  The Project uould benefit about 80,000
low-income farmers in the Project area.
Production of maize, cassava, groundnuts,
covpeas, paddy, and sova bean would increase
substantially, thereby assisting Zaire in its
goal of achieving food self-sufficiency.
Improved communications, resulting from Project
activities, would give area residents better
access to goods and services. Other Project
benefits include stronger agricultural
developmFnt services and reduction in the rate
of forest destruction in the Project area
through improved soil conservation practices.
Risks:                     The Project's main risks are those associated
with the overall situation of the Zairian
economy, including the shortage of qualified
local managerial staff and of local financial
resources. The impact of such risks on Project
implementation would be reduced to a certain
extent by (i) the requirement that key
managerial staff with qualifications
satisfactory to IDA be appointed, and (ii),
agreement would be reached with Government on an
This domment bm a mtiactd ditrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
then official dute Its contents may not otherwe be disclosed without World Bank authorizato.



- ii -
overall action program to improve resource
allocation and financial nanage_mt in the
agricultue sector. At the project level, the
most serious risk relates to the fact that the
target population is largely ibsistence oriented,
and developing a coercial productio  system uay
take longer than anticipitated.
Estimated Cost:              Local               Fore4g           Total
US $ Millions
Extension                   1.7                1.0              2.7
Extension Training         0.3                 0.2              0.5
Field Trials               0.3                 0.3              0.6
Seed Farm                  0.2                 0.6              0.8
Ioput Supply               1.2                 1.9              3.1
Truck Purcbase             0.5                 0.8              1.3
Transport Infr.            1.6                 3.1              4.7
Project Ngmt.              1.0                 1.6              2.6
Total Base Costs           6.8                 9.5             16.3
Physical Contirag.       0.7                 1.0              1.7
Price Conting.           1.8                 2.1              3.9
Total Project Costs        9.3                12.6             21.9
(Taxes & Duties)        (0.8)                                (0.8)
Financing Plan:          US $ Millions          Z of Total Cost
Government                 2.1                     10
IDA                       12.5                     59
IFAD                       6.5                     31
Total (w/o taxes)         21.1                    100
Taxes and duties     0.8
Total (incl. taxes)       21.9
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Years      Fn 85   FT 86  FY 87   FY 88   FY 89   FY 90
US $ Millions
Annual                  0.4      1.7     2.9     2.7      3.1    1.7
Cumulative              0.4     2.1      5.0     7.7     10.8   12.5
Rate of Return: 30% on 99.5% of Project costs
Appraisal Report: Report No. 5114 - ZR of November 12, 1984
Maps:
IBRD 17991
IBRD 179'2



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF Te.E PRESIDENT
TD THE EXECUTIVE DIRECrORS ON A PROPOSED
CREIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIR
FOR THE LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
1.        I submit the following report and recaomendation on a pro-
posed development credit to the Republic of Zaire in the amount of SDR
12.6 million equivalent (Us$12.5 million) on standard IDA terms to fiw-
ance the Lulua Agricultural Development k'roject. The Project would be
co-financed, on a joint basis, by a loan of US$6.5 million equivalent
from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). The
terms of the IFAD loan would be substantially similar to those of an
IDA credit.
PART I - TEE ECONOMY 1,
2.        An economic mission visited Zaire in March 1982; its report
was distributed in January 1983 (Report No. 4077-ZR). Its major find-
ings and those of follow-up missions in the course of 1983, are summar-
ized below.
Background
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area
and the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita,
estimaced at about US$210 in 1981, ranks among the lowest in the conti-
nent. Approximately one-third of its population of about 30 million
live in urban areas, and the population density is 12 persons per sq.
km. Urbanization has been proceedirg at a rate of about 7 percent per
annum, or more than twice the rate of population growth. Although
agriculture (commercialized and subsistence) normally accounts for 30
percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for more than three-
quarters of the population. Mining and mineral-processing normally
account for about 18 percent of GDP; this sector has traditionally been
the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds
of the country's export earnings.
4.        When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared
for the change, both technically and institutionally.  The first six to
seven years following independence were marked by violent political
strife and a severe disruption of the economy. But after the
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's
Report for the Education Technical Assistance and Trainirg Project
(P-3766-ZR) dated August 15, 1984.



-2-
restoration of political order and stability in 1967, GDP grew by about
7 percent in real terms annually until 1974. Since then, however,
Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties which are
attributable to both external and internal factors. The weakness of
world copper prices through most of this period was a major contributc
to both the severity and the duration of the crisis.
Evolution of Current Difficulties
5.        Until the late 1970s, Zaire's attempts to cope with the
crisis were uneven and uncoordinated. As a result, by 1978, coumercia-
lized GDP contracted to about 10 percent below the pre-crisis (1972-74)
level;  the overall budgetary deficit attained a record level; and def-
icit financing, together with the worsening shortage of basic consumer
goods, fuel and intermediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate
to about 50 percent. Although the decline of GDP was arrested in 1979,
the economy continued to face serious difficulties that year. The
expansion of credit to the Government (to finance the budgetary
deficit) and to the rest of the economy continued to exert pressure on
prices, which rose by more than 100 percent in the capital city during
the year. The balance of payments also remained under strong pressure,
as evidenced by the continued accumulation of external payment arrears
- a trend which had started in 1975. Although two stabilization
programs, supported by the IMF. were adopted and three debt reschedul-
ing agreements under the Paris Club were concluded during the 1975-79
period, these could not be implemented and therefore brought limited
relief.
6.        The year 1979 saw the beginning of more systematic efforts by
Zaire and its major donors to deal with the crisis. These included a
new stabilization program supported by the IHF; debt rescheduling
agrceewents with the Paris Club (December 1979) and the syndicated
private banks (April 1980); the preparation of a public investment
program (PIP) for 1979-81 with the help of the World Bank; the
installation of external advisers at the Central Bank and the Ministry
of Finance; the revamping of some institutions (the Customs Office, the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Investment Commission), and the creation
of others (a Central Pay Directorate at the Ministry of Finance).
These and other efforts produced considerable improvements in 1980.
GDP expanded by 2.4 percent in real terms, aided by a strong recovery
in copper production. The budgetary deficit was reduced substantially,
and the inflation rate was cut by more than half - to about 44 percent
- despite the devaluation of the zaire by about 30 percent vis-a-vis
the SDR early in the year. At the same time, Zaire observed all the
performance criteria under the new IMF-supported stabilization program
and complied with the debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club
and the syndicated private banks.



- 3 -
7.        Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in
mid-1981 Zaire adopted a three-year program of economic and financial
adjustment supported by an  Extended Fund Facility  (EFF) from the IMF
in an amount equivalent to SDR 912 million. Zaire also concluded (in
July 1981) a new debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club. How-
ever, economic performance during the year fell below expectations
because of external and internal factors. The weakening of the copper
and cobalt markets caused Zaire D merchandise exports to fall by about
US$540 million (or 26 percent) in nominal terms. Real imports were
lower than at any year during the crisis and amounted to 40-50 percent
of the pre-crisis level. As a result of these developments as well as
a weakening of fiscal discipline, the budgetary deficit expanded four-
fold in nominal terms - to the equivalent of 7 percent of GDP. Zaire
could not comply with either the criteria under the EFF or the July
1981 debt rescheduling agreement; it began accumulating external debt
arrears in the third quarter of 1981; and the EFF was formally cancel-
led effective June 21, 1982.
8.        World copper prices fell sharply in 1982 -  to the lowest
level (in real terms) in more than 30 years - thus accentuating
Zaire's economic difficulties. By year end, external debt arrears
totaled about US$940 million, of which US$690 million were on public
debt and US$250 million on commercial debt and invisibles. The budget-
ary deficit expanded, too, to about twice the level of 1981 (in nominal
terms), and was equivalent to about 10 percent of GDP. After recover-
ing by 2.4 percent a year in 1980 and 1981, GDP contracted marginally
(by about 1 percent) in 1982; the inflation rate edged upward, averag-
ing 37 percent; and the exchange rate came under strong pressure, the
spread between the parallel market rate and the official exchange rate
of the zaire rising to 3.5 to 1.
Government Action
9.        In mid-1981, in conjunction with the medium-term program sup-
ported by the EFF (paragraph 7), the Zairian authorities took a number
of interrelated steps toward stimulating supply, keeping the growth of
demand within appropriate limits, and improving foreign exchange mana-
gement: the zaire was devalued by a further 40 percent vis-a-vis the
SDR; interest rates were adjusted upward; and the existing price con-
trols on most goods were removed in order to stimulate the private
sector. In addition to completing a revised PIP for 1981-83, Zaire
began preparing an Agricultural Action Plan designed to bring about
improvements in the following areas: (i) strengthening of institu-
tions; (ii) policies for pricing, marketing, credit, and foreign
exchange allocation; (iii) implementation of on-going projects; (iv)
investment programming for the sector; and (v) research, extension and
training. The Action Plan was discussed at a meeting of the Consulta-
tive Group for Zaire held in June 1982. The Zairian authorities
cooperated with the IMF and the Bank in the preparation of a fiscal
study which comprised the budgetary process, (with emphasis on



-4-
the control over expenditures), tax reform and the tax regire of
Gfcamines (the state-owned company producing most of Zaire's copper and
all of its cobalt)- This study was completed in May 1982, and since
then, a number of reforms recommended by the study have been adopted by
the Government.
10.       In 1982, Zaire made additional attempts to improve economic
management and institutional performance. The Ministry of Agriculture
was significantly reorganized as part of a broad program of institu-
tional reforms for the sector. The Government appointed new, more
broadly-based Executive Boards for Gecamines and SOZACOM (the state-
owned company marketing the bulk of Gecamines' output); Important
changes were mpde in the top management of GEcamines; and a new market-
ing arrangement between the two firms was approved. Furthermore, the
Government announced the decision to 'privatize' the ownership and/or
management of 37 public enterprises, and it further relaxed the remain-
ing price controls. The Government proceeded at the same time to
implement a policy of 'decentralization' whose apparent objective is to
give Zaire's regions more autonomy.
11.       The year 1983 witnessed more systematic efforts to reestab-
lish the conditions for recovery. First, in order to facilitate the
negotiation of a new agreement with the IHF, Zaire implemented a
"shadow' progrem for six months, focused on reducing the budgetary def-
icit and improving financial management. Second, as part of a program
of major changes affecting the mining sector, the tax regime applying
to Gecamines was substantially revamped in line with the recommenda-
tions of the IMF/Bank study referred to above (paragraph 9). Third, in
September 1983, Zaire started implementing a series of ecinomic and
financial measures as a prelude to a formal agreement with the IMF and
a debt rescheduling linked to it. In support of these measures, in
December 1983, the DMF approved a 15-month Stand-by Arrangement in an
amount of SDR 228 million (US$246 million), equivalent to 100 percent
of quota. The IMF approved concurrently the purchase of SDR 114.5 mil-
lion (US$124 million) under the Compensatory Financing Facility. This
was immediately followed by a meeting of the Paris Club at which the
creditors agreed to reschedule outstanding arrears and maturities fal-
ling due in 1984 at terms compatible with the IMF agreement. In the
meantime, the authorities prepared an Interim Economic Recovery Program
which brought together under the same framework the program of economic
and financial adjustment and an updated three-year public investment
program. The Interim Program was presented to a meeting of the Con-
sultative Group which was held on December 21-22, 1983. The partici-
pants concurred with the appropriateness of the measures taken by Zaire
as well as with the priorities of the public investment program, and
they indicated their willingness to increase their support to Zaire in
the medium term.
12.       The adjustment measures announced in September 1983 and
incorporated in the IMF program comprise the following: (i) the imme-
diate devaluation of the zaire by about 80 percent vis-a-vis the US



- 5 -
dollar; (ii) the introduction of a transitional dual exchange rate
regime consisting of an official rate and a free market rate, leading
to the unification of the two rates (i.e., a total -float") in February
1984; 1/ (iii) a substantial liberalization and simplification of the
exchange and trade system as a whole; (iv) a comprehensive revision of
customs duties involving significant reductions in tariffs on essential
foodstuffs, raw materials and intermediate goods and major increases on
luxury goods; (v) a considerable adjustment and liberalization of the
interest rate structure, including the lifting of all administrative
controls on lending rates of commercial banks (except for those appli-
cable to the non-coffee agriculture sector, for which they are 15 per-
cent); (vi) the further decontrol of prices, including producer prices
of all agricultural commodities; (vii) the adjustment of petroleum pri-
ces to take full account of the change in the exchange rate; and (viii)
the decision to limit wage increases in the public sector to about 40
percent througlh 1984, well below the estimated rate of inflation. The
objective of the program is to improve Zaire's balance of payments
position and to begin reviving the economy. On the fiscal side, the
program aims at eliminating the budgetary deficit (not counting exter-
nal debt payments) in 1984, thus bringing down substantially net
government borrowing from the domestic banking system.
13.       Zaire's latest public investment program covers the years
1983-85. The thrust of the program continues to be rehabilitation of
existing capacity and infrastructure. The new program represents a
step forward in several respects. In particular, it is the product of
an attempt for the first time to tailor the program to resource avail-
abilities using a macroeconomic scenario. It is 13 percent smaller (in
real terms) than its predecessor for that reason and the projects have
been selected with a view to minimizing foreign exchange requirements.
As a result, the new program's external financing gap (US$290 million
over 1983-85) is much smaller than that of the last one in both abso-
lute and relative terms. Furthermore, the program is consistent with
both the stabilization program and the investment budget for 1984. The
program has benefitted from a continued effort by the Zairian authori-
ties since 1979 to identify and either improve or eliminate 'problem
projects-. The monitoring effort was strengthened in 1982 and 1983 and
is to be intensified with the on-going introduction of a new project
control and supervision system and strengthened inter-ministerial coor-
dination.  At the Consultative Group meeting held in December 1983, the
participants took two important steps relevant to the execution of the
Public Investment Program. They agreed on the appropriateness of con-
vening co-lender meetings on transport (highways) and G-camines, and
they endorsed Zaire's decision to reactivate the External Resources
Coordination Committee (which had not met for about two years) partly
in order to review progress in providing Zaire with assistance, finan-
cial and technical, required in the crucial and difficult years ahead.
1/ The two rates were unified on February 24, 1984 at US$1 = Z 33.0.



- 6-
Current Situation and Direction
14.       The difficulties expezienced by Zaire since 1975 have had a
heavy economic and social cost. Much of the country's productive capa-
city and infrastructure has deteriorated, and real wages and salaries
have declined by more than half. In the last two years, with the coop-
eration of the international communit;y, significant progress has been
made in defining the policies and actions necessary for recovery, and a
number of important decisions have already been taken by Zaire. The
developments of 1983 in particular represent a net gain. This can be
demonstrated by taking stock of the cumulative changes achieved with
respect to the liberalization of the economy. Three years ago, ail
commodities (industrial and agricultural) were subject to controls at
the producer, wholesale and retail levels. Today controls apply only
to petroleum products, public utilities and domestic transport. Vir-
tually all commercial bank lending rates have been liberalized. The
exchange rate has been brought to its most realistic level in recent
years, and a total float has been implemented.
15.       Overall, Zaire seems in a better position to make progress
than two years ago for several reasons. First, the measures taken
recently are more comprehensive, more coherent and better prepared than
before. A case in point is the adoption of the new fiscal regime for
Ggcamines, which enables both the Government and the company to improve
resource planning, and the revision of the Customs Code to complement
ecanges in the exchange rate regime. Second, some of the improvement
which has taken place, especially in the budgetary sphere in 1983, is
structural in nature: some expenditures have been curtailed for good
(e.g., through efforts to rationalize the government payroll); and some
categories of revenues (e.g., customs, tax contributions b, Gecamines)
have received a permanent boost through the exchange rate adjustment.
16.       Although Zaire's exports are expected to improve in the next
three years assuming a recovery of copper prices, Zaire's resource
constraints will remain severe. This is partly due to the external
public debt burden. The latest Paris Club agreement affects only
arrears and 1984 maturities; although as a result of the agreement the
debt service ratio in 1984 has been reduced to 18 percent, the
contractual debt service due in 1985-89 is equivalent to nearly 35
percent of projected exports of goods and nonfactor services - a ratio
which would seem incompatible with even a modest economic recovery.
Moreover, as a result of the sharp drop in commitments over the last
few years, the undisbursed project pipeline - the source of future
disbursements - has been reduced to US$670 million, compared to US$1.2
billion in 1975. While the donors have indicated their disposition to
increase their aid to Zaire progressively, this will take time and
depend on the improvement of external confidence.



- 7 -
17.       The Zairian authorities are aware that in these circumstances
they will need to make a determined and sustained effort to execute the
new stabilization program, implement the debt rescheduling agreement,
continue to improve economic management and stimulate the private sec-
tor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
.
18.       From 1969 to date, the Association has approved 37 credits
totalling about US$566.0 million for agriculture, transport, develop-
ment finance company operations, water supply, power, petroleum techni-
cal assistance and education projects. The Bank Group has also exten-
ded grants totalling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two
planning assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan
of US$100 million for the Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was
cofinanced by the European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab
Foreign Bank, and which provided for special repayment arrangements
linked to the project's export earnings. A Technical Assistance Credit
was recently approved to assist Gecamines with its efforts to restruc-
ture its organization, improve its manpower and prepare a long-term
rehabilitation and expansion program.  The IFC, which has a US$760,000
equity participation in the Societ'e Financiere de D;eveloppement Econo-
mique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan in 1978 for an offshore
oil production project and a US$230,000 loan in 1982 for studies rela-
ted to the development of an aluminium complex at Banana.   Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC invest-
ments as of September 30, 1984.
19.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was
established in 1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major trans-
port agencies, ONATRA, Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
(SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), Regie des Voies Maritimes
(RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), have received technical and financial
assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the
National Livestock Developmen; Authority (ONDE). In the case of
Gecamines, the Bank loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing and now
supported by a technical assistance credit, intended to define ways and
means to strengthen the management, financial position and planning of
the company.
20.       Project implementation has been satisfactory in spite of
difficulties resulting from the country's inadequate manpower and
management capability and, in recent years, because of the economic
crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the required



- 8 -
budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary
constraints. Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel,
and the deterioration of the transport network and marketing system
have resulted in severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting
and retaining adequate staff has also been difficult. In January 1980
the Bank undertook with Zairian officials an overall review of Bank
Group projects which, for the first time, provided an integrated view
of implementation problems; this resulted in an acceleration and
improvement in the utilization of Baum. Group assistance, particularly
in the agricultural sector. A second overall review, focussing on
macro-economic and sectoral issues and on their impact on project
implementation, took place in Hay 1983 and assisted the Government in
formulating the important economic measures of September 1983
(para. 12).
21.       Fourteen credits and one loan have been totally disbursed:
Credits 152, 292, 536 and 916-ZR (First, Second, Third and Fourth High-
way Projects); Credit 255-CK (River Transport Project); Credits 272-CK
and 264-ZR (First and Second Education Projects);  _edit 398 and 697-ZR
(Livestock Development and Ituri Livestock Projects); Credits 190, 271,
463 and 710-ZR (First, Second, Third and Fourth SOFIDE Projects);
Credit 625-ZR (Water Supply) and Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines). Completion
reports have been issued for all projects. Performance Audit Reports
have been issued for the First SOFIDE, the First, Second and Third
Highway Projects, the River Transport Project, the Rail/River Project
and the First Education Project. The conclusion of the audit and
completion reports was that the Bank Group's impact on institution
building had been mixed. All project entities had encountered
operating difficulties beyond their control as the economy deterior-
ated, financial resources grew scarcer and the problems besetting the
investment environment were exacerbated by the Government's zairianiza-
tion/radicalization measures. Nonetheless, effective administrations
had evolved in REGIDESO, SOFIDE and the Office des Routes, the highway
agency. Performance of ONATRA, the port and river transport agency,
had not improved as a result of the first River Transport Project but
did improve under the Rail/River Project. More attention to institution
building activities would have been beneficial in the education sector;
administrative weaknesses in the Department of Education were cited as
partly responsible for poor performance under the First Project and the
inability to implement investment components under the Second Fducation
Project which resulted in cancellation of US$18.8 million in February
1983. In the case of Gecamines, the delay in project implementation
and reorientation of project scope from expansion to rehabilitation
were not attributable to institutional weaknesses, but rather to a
combination of external forces (copper price decline, Shaba invasion)
and domestic economic crisis; nevertheless, positive results were
achieved in the areas of tax reform, marketing and management through
the dialogue established under the Expansion Project and continuing
under a Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1336-ZR), and by the return
of copper production to the full capacity level. Bank Group support to



-9-
all of the abovementioned enaities is contnuing tlbough followos
projects designed to adress the issues raised by the completion and
audit reports.
22.      The rate of dIbursent to Zaie is average for the Eastern
Africa Region. For fiscal years 1982-84. dirsts totalled US$107
million compared with new coitments of US$208.8 million. The
disparity between disbtrsemnts and conitments is a result of a
significant increase in commitmets in FY82 and F83. I thbi same
*perio, the average annual disbrsent rate was 19 percent, ooly
slightly lower than the rate for oter countries of the region. While
disburseent performance in general Is satisfactory, difficulties ae
arisen in several projects. In the case of early credits for
transport, education and livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR),
the lack of a strong project entity caused implemtation delays.
Economic conditions were also a factor in slowing project programs In
instances where governmeat counterpart funds were not available (Third
HEgbay, Credit 660-ZR; Second Fducation, Credit 624-ZR) and where the
investment environment experienced slow recovery from the aftermath of
abrupt nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE. Credit 710-ZR). Future project
implemenLation sbould be less affected by the above influences given
the strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and efforts
by the Government to improve budgetary support of IDA-financed
Projects. At the end of 1983, the Bank Group's sbare of Zaire's total
debt disbursed and outstanding was about 7 percent.
73.      In the past tbree years, the Bank Group's main efforts have
been directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development
of the  agriculture and transport sectors, In part through the design
and implementation of appropriate new policies. Investments in
industry were also emphasized through assistance to SOFIDE. Initial
efforts in support of the energy sector include the Shaba Power System
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1224-ZR) and the Ruzizi II Regional Hydro-
electric PoFr ProJect (Cr. 1421-ZR). Our lending will continue to
assist the development of the agriculture sector witbin the framework
of the new Agricultural Action Plan (see para. 9 above); to promote
the development of the industrial and mining sectors; and to support
the transport sector (in particular, the Vote Nationale). In addition,
further support will be considered for the energy sector to develop
power and petroleum resources, and minimize the cost of supplying
petroleum products to the country. A recently approved Education
Technical Assistance and Training Project to Improve the managmet of
the education sector and relevance of education programs will
contribute to relieving the manpower constraints of the productive
sectors which are the focus of the Bank Group's lending strategy.
PART III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.      General. Zaire covers about 2.3 million kmm2, and has con-
siderable agricultural potential. It is estimated that about 30% to



- 10 -
35Z of the total land area is suitable for agricultural development,
although only about 5Z is currently under cultivation or developed as
ranches. Straddling both sides of the equator, the country fall  into
four major ecological zones: (i) rain forest ("cuvette centrale"); (Ii)
mixed forest and savannah; (iii) gavannah belts; and (iv) tropical
uplands. Rural population density is highest in the savannah belts and
tropical uplands, and the population growth rate is estimated at between
2.2Z to Z.8Z per annum. Rural per capita income, about US $110, is aong
the lowest in Africa. A wide variety of agricultural commodities are grown
in Zaire. The major staple food crops are cassava, maize, rice, bananas,
and beans. The most important industrial crops are cotton, palm oil, and
sugarcane, while export crops include coffee, tea, rnbber, and cocoa. The
livestock sub-sector comprises cattle as well as small ruminants and
poultry; insects and fish are another important source of animal protein
for the local population. Zaire's forestry resources are considerable but
largely untapped.
25.       Production Trends. Agriculture provides direct employment and
support to 70Z to .75% of Zaire's active population, as vell as to an
additional 10% employed in the agro-industrial processing . Its share of
uVP has stagnated in recent years at around 30Z, while agricultural exports
have decressed in both absolute and relative terms. In 1968, an estimated
433,000 t of agricultural commodities were exported, representing about 18Z
of the value of total exports; in 1981, these figures had decreased to
146,000 t and 1OZ, respectively. During -his same period, agricultural
imports increased and food imports in particular, wath maize, wheat, meat,
fish, and sugar being major import items. This disappointing performance
stems from a variety of factors, including: Ci) difficult transport
conditions; (ii) inadequate or unclear marketing and pricing policies;
(iii) weak agricultural institutions; and (iv) limited resources devoted to
the sector.
26.       Recognizing the adverse impact Government policies and weak
sector management were having on sector performance, the Government began
implementing an Agricultural Action Plan in 1982 (para. 9) which addressed
the major weaknesses outlined above. Although it is too early to draw
definite conclusions on the impact o- this program (data are incomplete and
often unreliaole), it appears that agricultural production is recovering,
albeit slowly. Foodcrop production appears to have grown rougLly In line
witb rural population growth; significant production increases have been
recorded for industrial crops such as cotton, sugar, and palm oil; and
marketed meat production has shown a sharp increase. Within the foodcrop
subsector, maize production increases bave been particularly strong (about
10% in 1983 over 1982 levels), which should have a positive impact on the
food import bill.
27.       Structure of Production.  Modern (large-farm) and traditional
(small-farm) production systems coexist in Zaire's agricultural sector.
About 40% of agriculture's share of GDP is contributed by the modern
sector, and about 60% by the traditional/subsistence sector. The



- 11 -
large-farm sector is composed of large, corporation-owned plantations as
well as individually owned farms and ranches. The principal commodities
produced are palm oil, sugar, rubber, tobacco, coffee, cocoa, and cattle.
Modern sector output has declined since independence due to nationalization
measures in the mid-1970s, the general economic crisis and shortage of
foreign exchange, and the low priority given to agricultural investment by
the Government. The small-farm sector comprises an estimated 3 to 4
million farming units. A bush-fallow production system predominates, and
farming techniques rely on hand labor and simple tools. The principal
crops grown are cassava, maize, rice, bananas, beans, cotton, groundnats,
coffee and oropical fruits. The traditional sector also accounts for about
60Z of the national cattle herd.
28.       Sector Issues.  The Government of Zaire has in the past sought to
regulate and control the marketing and pricing of many agricultural
products. Government measures have often had a negative impact on
production and marketing, as local authorities frequently intervened to
hold prices down and to impede the circulation of goods across regional
borders. Recognizing the costs of contradictory and unclear policies in
this area, the Government began a gradual process of liberalization in
1981, culminating in 1983 in the complete freeing of producer prices and
abolition of local authorities' rights to intervene in this area.
Complementing price liberalization efforts, the Government also moved to
eliminate regional barriers to trade, freeing the circulation of
agricultural goods within the country. While these measures are too recent
to permit a comprehensive evaluation, preliminary information indicates
that they are having a powerful impact on production and marketing,
particularly in major surplus and deficit areas. For instance, the opening
up of the Shaba (deficit) market, combined with the recent devaluation of
the Zairian currency, is stimulating maize marketing activities in the
KasaIs and driving up farm-gate prices in these areas. Beef marketing and
production activities are similarly benefiting from the liberalized
environment. This process of market integration is expected to play an
important role in stimulating production increases in the proposed Project
area.
29.       Another issue which has particular significance for agricultural
development in Zaire is the role of the Agricultural Extension Service.
Since its establishment before Independence, the Agricultural Extension
Service has operated as an enforcer of norms set by the Department of
Agriculture (DADR); farmers who did not cultivate the surface area
stipulated by DADR were (and are) subject to fines. Known as imposed
cultivation-, this practice was originally introduced to encourage the
production of export crops such as cotton; it has persisted to varying
degrees in different parts of the country, particularly where there is
competition between cash and food crops. This approach has resulted in the
farmers' aversion to dealing with extension agents and to accepting the
technical packages they try to diffuse. This issue has been the subject of
constant discussion between the Government and the Bank, and was raised



- 12 -
again at negotiations. An agreement was reached that this practice would
not be continued in the Project area (Section 5.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). In addition. the Government has the intention of
discontinuing the practice throughout Zaire by the end of 1985.
30.       Sectoral Institutions.  Traditionally, the role of Government
institutions in promoting and regulating agricultural development in Zaire
was relatively restricted while the private sector dominated the
development of modern agricultural activities. In the mid-70's, the
Government tried to expand its role but with little success - in fact,
causing considerable disruptions to the sector. More recently, the
Government has established and begun to implement a new agricultural policy
relying essentially on the private sector (para.31). The Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development (DADR) is responsible for agricultural
policy, extension services, crop and veterinary services, technical
supervision of parastatal institutions, rural water supply and cooperative
development. It has recently been reotganized and is receiving technical
assistance support under an IDA financed project. Other Government
agencies which provide services to support agricultural and rural
development include: the Department of Primary and Secondary Education and
the Department of Higher Education and Scientific Research, wbich provide
agricultural education and agricultural research services; the Department
of Public Works and its operational arm, the Roads Authority, which are
responsible for developing and maintaining a large part of the national
road network; and regional and local authorities, which are responsible for
rural road maintenance. In addition, a number of parastatal institutions
have responsibilities for agricultural production, marketing, and
regulations; the private sector is playing au increasingly important role
in providing extension and road maintenance services. Credit to the sector
is provided by SOFIDE (a development f!runce institution), the Agricultural
Credit Bank, and a para-fiscal system known as Development Agreement Funds.
31.       Government Strategy for the Sector. The Agricultural Action Plan
(para.9), presented in a report prepared in 1981-1982, constitutes the
basic statement of government strategy for agricultural development In
Zaire. The chief objectives of the strategy are: (i) to make the country
self-sufficient in food crops; (ii) to increase the production of crops
used as raw materials by local industries; and (iii) to increase export
crop production. For the short- and medium-term, the priorities will be
foodcrop development through recovery of smallholder production and
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing production capacity. Measures
designed to achieve the Government's objectives in the sector include the
establishment of clear procedures for cabinet level coordination of
agricultural policy; reinforcing the capacity of DADR to plan, prepare and
implement projects more effectively; and strengthening its capacity to
address key policy problems more systematically. Preparation of a three
year investment program (1982-1984) and strengthening the links between the
annual budget exercise and investment planning are also important steps in
improving resource allocation and increasing the productive impact of



- 13 -
public funds channelled to the sector. Although it is difficult to assess
the impact of recent measures on agricultural production at this early
stage, the Plan represents a realistic and significant step to address the
most important institutional and policy issues which have hindered
production in the past.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed project was appraised in December 1983 by a joint
IDA/IFAD mission. Negotiations were held in Washington from October 29 to
November 2, 1984. The Zairian delegation vas led by the Secretary of State
for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr. Monkonda Bonza.  Representatives
of IFAD participated in the negotiations. A report entitled  Staff
Appraisal Report, Republic of Zaire, Lulua Agricultural Development
Project-, No. 5114-ZR is being distributed separately. A supplementary
data sheet is attached as Annex Ill.
33.       Background. The Project area is located in the Lulua and Kananga
sub-regions of Kasai Occidental Province. The Lulua sub-region is divided
into five administrative zones, subdivided into 33 collectivities, of which
20 are included in the Project area. The Kananga sub-region is also
divided into five zones of which three collectivities are predominantly
rural and are included in the Project area. The combined surface area of
the 23 collectivities included in the Project area is about 29,400 km:2, and
the combined population is estimated at about 1.1 million people. This
represents 50% of the total surface area of the two sub-regions and about
55% of their combined populations. The location of the Project area within
Kasai Occidental Province and the principal administrative divisions are
shown on IBRD Map 17991.
34.       The Project area is one of the poorer areas of Zaire.
Agricultural activities are the primary source of income, but food crop
productivity is low, due to soil conditions, primitive technology and
degenerated seeds. The traditional vegetation of the entire Project area
is forest. Very little of that forest remains, however, as the traditional
farming system destroys forest by felling and burning to create savanna.
Soils are generally characterized by low fertility, low water retention
e          capacity and moderate to high acidity.  Farms are small, with the area
under crops per farm at any one time about 4 ha. The principal staple is
cassava, followed by maize and rice. Cowpeas and groundnuts are the
primary legumes;  soya and voandzou beans are also gronn. Oil palms
provide a source of cash income. Farming methods are un ophisticated and
labor efficiency is low.
35.       Project Concept and Rationale.  The proposed Lulua Agricultural
Development Project (PRODALU) aims at increasing foodcrop production in the
Project area by addressing key constraints to development, notably,
diffusion of technical in'ormation by the extension service, availability



- 14 -
of inputs, transport Infrastructure, and marketing services.  Increasing
fooderop productioa is given top priority within the Government's
agricultural strategy (para.31), and the proposed Project is an important
element in such strategy. Increased production generated under the Project
is ez-tected to substitute for imports which would otherwise be necessary
and would move Zaire closer towards its goal of food self-sufficiency. The
Project would benefit an estimated 80,000 farm families.
36.       The proposed Project is a logical follow-up to the on-going
Smallholder Maize Project in Kasai Oriental. Project des4,n and technical
packages have been largely inspired by the PMKO experience, but have been
adapted to local conditions and to the current policy environment. Like
PMKO, the Project (PRDALU) would be implemented by a Project Unit which is
part of DADR, and the extension effort would emphasize intensification of
production. Differences between the two projects consist primarily in
implementation arrangements; based on PMKO experience, PRODALU would not
administer a credit program nor handle marketing of inputs directly, given
the cost of this approach. Instead, every effort would he made to
associate the private sector with marketing activities supported under the
Project, in order to assure continuity in input supply over the
longer-term. This implementation approach would permit PRODALU to maiuntain
a lean administrative structure and would limit the impact of the Project
on the Government s budget.
37.       Project Components. The Project would be implemented over a five
year period (1985-89) and would include the following components: (i)
reorientation, training, and logistical support for the agricultural
extension service; (ii) a field trials program; (iii) production of
improved seed and planting material; (iv) provision of agricultural inputs
(e.g. fertilizers, insecticidee, tools, improved seed); (v) credit for
purchase of trucks to be used in agricultural marketing operations; (vi)
rehabilitation and maintenance of roads, bridges, and ferries, and (vii)
establishment of a Project Unit responsible for project implementation.
The Project Unit would be part of DADR but would enjoy considerable
administrative and financial autonomy. Other institutions in the Project
area (e.g. SOFIDE, religious missions, OR) and private traders would also
participate in the implementation of Project activities.
Detailed Features
38.       Extension Services.  The Project would support activities
designed to strengthen the existing agricultural extension service in the
Project area. Emphasis would be placed on establishing profitable,
realistic extension themes; communicating the purpose and methods of
extension work to extension agents; motivating extension staff through
logistical support and salary incentives; and providing regular training
and supervision. Extension activities would be organized in accordance
with the basic principles of the Training and Visit (T&V) system. Project
investments to support the above program would include buildings, vehicles
(bicycles for agents, motorbikes for Sub-sector Chiefs, and jeeps for
Sector Chiefs), working equipment (boots, scales, measuring tapes, etc.),
and office supplies. Project costs would also include incremental
operating costs and salary supplements for good performance.



- 15 -
39.       Extension Training.  Training would be primarily provided by
Extension Service supervisors in the course of on-the-job supervision and
during monthly or fortnightly meetivgs. In addition to this on-tbe-job
training, extension agents would participate in formal training sessions
organized by the Training staff of the Extension/Training Service.
4       Training activities during the first year of Project implemeutation would
be primarily orientation courses with some review of major techn'-al
themes; thereafter, formal sessions would be refresher courses, designed to
retrain and upgrade staff skills. Participation in and satisfactory
completion of training courses would be an additional eligibility
requirement for receiving salary bonuses (para 38). Formal training
courses would be held during school holidays at the three regional
Technical Traiaing Institutes (ITAs). Investments to support the
above-mentioned program would include repairs to the three regional ITAs,
vehicles (a jeep for the Deputy Service Chief and motorbikes for
assistants), training materials, incremental staff salaries, and operating
costs; the conclusion of arrangements satisfactory to IDA under which the
Project Unit would utilize the facilities of these ITAs would be a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit (Section 7.01 (d) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
40.       Field Trials.  Field trials in support of the Project's extension
program would be carried out by its Trials/Seed Production Service. These
trials would rely on the basic research done at Ngandajika and by the
national commodity programs (e.g. maize, cassava and rice). The trial
program would primarily cover improved varieties, fertilizer doses, and use
of plant residues to improve soil fertility. Investigation of integrated
pest control methods would also be supported. Trial plots Would be
established: Ci) at the Pania $antu Seed Farm; (ii) on commmnity land at
the sub-sector level (one per sub-sector), and (iii) at the farm level (two
per extension agent). The program would be closely integrated with
Extension Service activities in order to train extension agents on-the-job
(they would cultivate the sub-sector plots) and as a pre-extension exercise
for farmers. Project costs associated with the trials prograi include
investments in buildings, equipment, vehicles, incremental staff salaries,
operating costs of vehicles, and inputs for the trials program. Training
for Trials Service staff at international research institutes would also be
included in Project costs.
6       41.        Seed Production.  The Project would support the rehabilitation of
the Pania Santu Seed Farm and production of improved seed and planting
material for sale to area farmers. Production activities would focus on
improved varieties of cassava and maize. Annual output at full development
is estimated at 165 t of improved maize seed, and 250,000 t of improved
cassava cuttings. As these quantities are unlikely to be sufficient to
completely satisfy farmer demand throughout the implementation period, Seed
Farm staff would also organize a network of contract farmers who would
multiply improved varieties of cassava on their farms. Seed production
activities could be extended to groundnuts, cowpeas, rice, and soya towards
the end of the Project implementation period, should the trial program
identify improved varieties which are adapted to local conditions. Major
investment items for the seed production program include repairing Pania



- 16 -
Santu buildings and storage facilities, equipment, vehicles, ircremental
staff salaries, and program operating costs. Soil tests and topographical
studies, consultant services, and training would also be included.
42.       Provision of Agricultural Inputs.  The Project Unit would procure
agricultural inputs (fertilizer, insecticides, hand tools, and improved
seeds) and arrange for their sale to farmer3 by private traders.  This
would make it possible for area farmers to adopt the improved technical
recommendations being diffused by the Extension Service. Fertilizer orders
would be based on Extension Service estimates of farmer demand.
Consumption is expected to grow in the initial years, from about 40 t in
Year I to 1075 t in Project Year 5, for a total of about 2,250 t for the
entire Project period. Insecticides would be imported on a trial basis,
and would be purchased primarily by area traders who are currently
experiencing 30% losses on maize stocks; minimal sales are anticipated at
the farm level for seed treatment. Project costs associated with this
component include the purchase and transport costs of the agricultural
inputs, equipment,vehicles, incremental staff salaries and operating costs,
and storage rental. All agricultural inputs would be sold to farmers at
prices covering their costs of production, purchase and distribution
(Section 5.05 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.       Credit for Trucks.  The truck fleet in the Project area is small
in size and frequently non-functional, due to the poor state of the roads
and lack of spare parts caused by the shortage of foreign exchange. To
facilitate the movement of goods within the Project area and to encourage
competition in goods transport, the Project would provide a.line of credit
for the purchase of about 25 eight-ton trucks and spare parts by area
traders during the Project implementation period. SOFIDE has agreed to
manage the line of credit on behalf of the Project Unit.
44.       Maintenance of Transport Infrastructure.  In lIght of the serious
deterioration of the road infrastructure in the Project area and the
obstacle which this poses to marketing of foodcrops, the Project would
support periodic and routine maintenance of the road network, and
reconstruction and repair of small bridges and ferries. Periodic
maintenance would be done by a mechanized brigade under the Project,
and would include earthworks, provision of new base course materials, and
in some cases, relocation of road alignment. The mechanized maintenance
program would cover about  50 km of rehabilitation, 78 km of relocation and
reopening of tracks, and 400 km of upgrading per year. The manual
maintenance program supported by the Project would cover all rural roads
(1700 km) in the Project area. Major investment items for this component
would include equipment and operating costs of the mechanized brigade,
equipment and operating costs for manual maintenance activities, earth
works or civil works on the approaches to bridges and ferries.
superstructures for bridges, vehicles, incremental staff salaries, and
consultant services. The national highway authority (OR) would provide
assistance to the Project Unit in the management of thia component. The



- 17 -
conclusion of arrangements to that effect between OR and the Project Unit,
satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of effectiveness
(Section 7.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       Project Management.  The Project Unit would be based at Kananga,
and a liaison office would be maintained in Kinshasa to facilitate
procurement and logistics. Project managers would give top priority to
keeping a light administrative structure. Major investments to support the
management of Project activities would include the repair of office
buildings in Kananga and Kinshasa, purchase of vehicles and equipment,
incremental staff salaries, and operating costs. Funds would also be
provided for about six man-years of technical assistance, 16 an-months of
consultant services (in the fields of financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, and auditing) and twenty man-months of training in project
management, finance and accounting, procurement, and monitoring techniques.
Project Organization and Management
46.       The Project would be implemented over a five year period. A
detailed map of the Project area, showing sector headquarters, trainiDg
centers, the seed farm, storage depots, and the proposed transport
improvement program is attached as IBRD Map 17992. The Project Unit
responsible for the implementation of PRODALU would be part of DADR; it
would enjoy considerable administrative and financial autonomy In order to
carry out project components effectively. The Project Director would
report directly, and send progress reports to the Hecd of the Directorate
of Project Administration in DADR. The establishment of the Project Unit
in accordance with the criteria outlined above would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness (Section 7.01 (b) of the draft Development Agreement).
47.       The Project Unit would consist of three major departments -  for
agricultural production, for infrastructure, and one for administration and
logistics - each headed by a Deputy Project Director. The technical
department would comprise two services: (i) Extension/Training and (ii)
Trials/Seed Production. The administration department would be composed of
three services: (i) Logistics, (ii) Administration, and (iii) Finance.
In addition to these departmental structures, a Monitoring Unit would
report directly to the Project Director. In collaboration with other
IDA-supported projects, a Project liaison office would be established in
Kinshasa to handle procurement and logistical arrangements. The Project
Director was appointed prior to negotiations and participated in them.
Appointment of the Deputy Directors for agricultural production and for
administration/logistics, the head of the Seed Farm, and the Finance
Service Chief would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 7.01
(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Terms of reference for top
and mid-level management positions and qualifications of the individuals
hired would need to be acceptable to IDA (Section 4.01 (b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
48.       Management support would be provided to the Project Unit in the
form of long and short-term technical assistance. Long-term technical
assistance would be recruited for the positions of Technical Deputy



- 18 -
Director, Administrative Deputy Director, and Roads Technician. This
technical assistance would be necessary only during the first three years
of Project implementation. Short-term consultant support would also be
provided In the fields of financial anagement, monitoring, training, seed
farm management and in transport economics. Terms of reference and
qualifications of technical assistance personnel and consultants would be
acceptable to IDA (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       At the national level, mechanisms have recently been established
to ensure coordination among the several services of DADR and between It
and other ministries. DADR would, through the Directorate of Project
Administration (para, 45), review progress of the Project and approve
annual work programs. At the regional level, a Consultative Committee
would be established to follow up on project implementation, transmit
observations to central Government authorities, and lend support to the
Project unit in resolving difficulties. It would also help prepare annual
work programs. The committee would be chaired by the Regional
Inspector of DADR. The Committee is expected to be established by June
1985 (Section 4.06-(a) and (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
this would allow it to review the first annual work program.
ReportiRg
50.       Annual Work Programs.  The Project would be implemented on the
basis of annual work programs prepared by Project management and approved
by DADR, IDA and IFAD. The programs would serve as a planning,
implementation and monitoring tool and would provide the necessary
flexibility to ensure better Project adaptation to local conditions. Each
annual work program would include (i) an evaluation of the previous year's
performance and a discussion of how the new program builds on that-
experience; (ii) a statement of specific objectives to be pursued and a
description by component of the activities to be undertaken in order to
achieve those objectives; (iii) detailed investment and operating budgets
by component; (iv) staffing and training plans; (v) a financing plan; and
(vi) procurement plans. Preparation of the annual work program would
follow the Government's budget cycle in order to reduce risks of major
discrepancies between the figures proposed in the program and budget
allocations. Preparation would begin in June, and after being reviewed at
various levels, the revised annual program would be submitted to DADR, IFAD
(para 49) and to IDA by the end of October to permit final review and
approval before the budget is submitted to Parliament. Approval of this
draft by IDA and IFAD would be a condition of disbursement for the
activities to which the work program applies (Schedule 1, para. 5 (b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The annual work progranswould be
submitted for approval by IDA and IFAD according to the timetable outlined
above (section 4.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.       Progress Reports.  The Project Unit would prepare semi-annual
progress reports in October and in April for the preceding six month
period. These reports would describe progress in achieving work program



- 19 -
targets, compare actual costs with budget estimates, and explain variations
between actual and planned results. Comparisons between actual results and
appraisal estimates would also be provided for selected project
indicators. Another important function of the semi-annual reports would be
to analyze major problems encountered, propose solutions to these problems,
and identify decisions and/or actions required. To facilitate the work of
a mid-term review mission, scheduled tentatively for mid-1987, Project
management would also prepare a mid-term report evaluating progress during
the 21 year period, comparing actual results against appraisal estimates,
and indicating management's opinion concerning the project's future
orientation during the remaining implementation period.
52.       Project Completion Report.  Project Unit management would prepare
a Project Completion Report to summarize Project performance, evaluate its
successes and problems, and underline lessons to be taken into account in
the future design and implementation of similar projects; DADR would review
and submit this report to IDA no later than six months after the Credit
Closing Date (Section 4.04 (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
53.       Total Project costs are estimated at about Z 646 million (US$21.9
million), of which about 58Z or USS12.7 million would be in foreign
exchange. Project costs were estimated on the basis of January 1984
prices, updated by projected inflation rates to January 1985. Costs =te
inclusive of estimated taxes and duties of Z 24.1 million, amounti-.g to
about 3% of Project costs . A physical contingency of 10% was applied to
reflect uncertainties regarding quantities and the possibility of design
changes during implementation.. Price contingencies on all conrponents were
calculated on a cumulative basis at a rate of 8% for 1985, 9% for 1986-88
and 7.5% for 1989. The same percentages have been used for both local and
foreign costs under the assumption that the differential in the rate of
inflation will be compensated by exchange rate adjustments.
54.       The financing of Project costs (next of taxes) would be shared
between the Government of Zaire, IDA, and IFAD in the proportions of 102,
59%, and 31%, respectively. If taxes, to be paid by Government, are
considered, the proportion would be 13% for Government, and 57% and 30% for
IDA and IFAD, respectively. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 12.6 million
(USS 12.5 million) and IFAD loan of US$ 6.5 million would finance 100% of
foreign exchange costs and 76% of local costs (Z 192.0 million). Local
cost financing is justified by the Government's difficult budgetary
situation. The proposed IDA credit and IFAD loan would be cross-effective
(Section 7.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Preparation
of an action program satisfactory to IDA and IFAD to improve financial
management and resource allocation in the agricultural sector is an
additional condition of effectiveness (Section 7.01 (e) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Action Program would also serve as a
monitoring tool.
55.       As the Government will have difficulty in pre-financing
expenditures to be reimbursed under the IDA Credit and IFAD loan, a
revolving fund totalling USS 0.2 million, financed under the Project, would



- 20 -
be established in a Special Account to be opened in the Central Bank for
this purpose and operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and
IFAD. The revolving fund would be replenished on a quarterly basis upon
receipt of documentary evidence to be provided by Project management.
Should any disbursements be made from the revolving fund which are not
acceptable to IDA and IFAD, the Government would deposit the corresponding
amount in the Special Account.  Agreement on terms and conditions for using
the Special Account was reached at negotiations (Schedule 4 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The revolving fund would cover all eligible
expenditures, with the exception of vehicles and spare parts under the
credit program to be administered by SOFIDE (para. 43).
Disbursements and Procurement
56.       Disbursemen-s.  Funds from the IDA Credit and the IFAD Loan would
be disbursed over a sLA year period. IDA would administer disbursements
under the proposed IFAD Loan. Disbursements would be conditional on
approval by IDA and IFAD of annual work programs (para. 50).  Items to be
financed jointly by IDA and IFAD would include: (i) vehicles and equipment,
(ii) agricultural inputs, (iii) civil works, (iv) technical assistance, (v)
studies and audits, and (vi) incremental operating costs. Disbursements
would be made in a ratio of 66:34 between IDA and IFAD. The two advances
of US$60,000 and US$230,000 under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
are being financed solely by IDA and would be refunded under the Credit.
Disbursements against categories (i)-(v) would be fully documented.
Disbursements for incremental operating costs (vi) would be against
statements of expenditures certiffed by the Project Director and the Chief
of the Financial Service. Full documentation would be retained by Project
management for inspection in the course of normal Project supervision
missions and for auditing.
57.       Procurement.  Vehicles (excluding trucks for marketing) and
mechanized road equipment (US$4.2 million) would be procured under
international competitive bidding following Bank/IDA guidelines. Trucks
for marketing (US $1.6 million) would be procured according to SOFIDE's
guidelines. Fertilizer, pesticides and tools (US $1.5 million), seed farm
equipment (US$0.2 million), and manual road maintenance tools and equipment
(US $0.2 million) would be procured following local or international
shopping procedures. Civil works for houses, offices and rehabilitation of
storage buildings and training centers (US $0.4 million) involve many small
buildings and, due to their dispersed locations and difficult conditions in
the Project area, would be unlikely to attract foreign bids; these works
would therefore be carried out following local competitive bidding. Bridge
rehabilitation and ferry repairs would be contracted to religious missions
and private operators with proven experience on the basis of local
shopping. Technical assistance to be provided under the Project would be
recruited according to Bank/IDA guidelines for the use of consultants.
Experts could be recruited either individually or through firms.



- 21 -
Accounts and Audits
58.       Consultants, acceptable to IDA, would be recruited to set up
PRODALU's accounting and internal control systems and to provide follow-up
support, as necessary. The Project Unit would (a) maintain records and
accounts to cover all project activities; (b) have these accounts and
statement of expenditures, audited each year by external auditors
acceptable to IDA, and (c) submit these accounts to IDA no later than six
months after the close of the financial year (Section 5.01 (c) and (d) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition SOFIDE would (a) keep
separate accounts for Project activities managed by SOFIDE; and (b) provide
these accounts to the abovementioned auditors so that they may be audited
together with the accounts of the Project Unit (Section 5.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
59.       Benefits.  The proposed Project constitutes an important element
of the Government 's program to achieve food self-sufficiency. Maize
production at full development is expected to more than double; paddy
production to increase by 150%; soya production by about 75%; cowpea
production by about 35%, and cassava and groundnut production by about 25Z
each. In addition to incremental production, Project activities are also
expected to maintain foodcrop production which would have been foregone
without the Project, due to yield declines resulting from shorter fallow
periods and decreasing soil fertility. Incremental maize and paddy
production would substitute for imports of these commodities and result in
an estimated net foreign exchange savings of about US$3.0 million per year,
on average, starting in 1990.
60.       In addition to the benefits outlined above, the Project would
also contribute to improved communications and marketing services in the
Project area, thus improving the quality of life of the rural population by
increasing access to other goods and services. Trial activities supported
by the Project could have an impact beyond the immediate Project area, by
providing information for extension service agents throughout Western
Kasai. Training activities and on-the-job work experience would improve
the skills of local Project staff and contribute to long-term institutional
development of DADR; in addition, rehabilitation of the ITAs for use as
training centers for extension staff would have a secondary benefit for ITA
students during the normal school year. Lastly, adoption of practices
recommended by the Project would slow down the rate of forest destruction
in the Project area and contribute to improved soil conservation. It is
estimated that about 80,000 farm families would benefit from Project
activities. This target population is among the poorest in Zaire and has
not previously benefitted from large-scale development efforts on their
behalf.
61.       The overall economic rate of return of the Project is estimated
at 30%. It was calculated on the following assumptions: (a) the economic
life of the Project was assumed to be 20 years; (b) incremental production
of cowpeas, groundnuts, soya, and cassava was valued at local market
prices; (c) incremental production of maize and paddy was valued at import



- 22 -
parity prices, as Zaire currently imports these commodities; (d) all
investments and incremental operating costs were included, except for a
pilot activity (insecticide distribution) representing 0.5Z of Project
costs; (e) incremental fertilizer use was valued on the basis of Bank
projections, adjusted for transport costs, and (f) family labor was valued
at 50% of the going market wage in the Project area. The rate of return
was tested for its sensitivity to changes in costs and benefits and phasing
of benefits. The results of this analysis show that the economic rate of
return falls below satisfactory levels (12X) if benefits fall by 50%, or if
costs increase by 50% and benefits are delayed by three years: these
eventualities are considered unlikely. The rate of return is most
sensitive to (i) significant declines in benefits (50%) and (ii) a cut-off
of Government funding for recurrent expenditures at the end of the Project
period. On the other hand, the rate of return is not sensitive to
depreciation of the Zaire currency.
62.       Risks.  The Project does not carry any unusual risks.  However,
project performance will be subject to the general risks associated with
the overall Zairian environment. These general risks include the
possibility of reimposing barriers to inter-regional trade and returning to
a system of administered prices for agricultural commodities. The
Government has stated that it intends to continue applying recent
liberalization measures, and agreement was reached during negotiat-ons that
the Government would continue to maintain its policy of free movement of
agricultural commodities across regional boundaries and of free-market
pricing of such commodities (Section 5 n5 (b) and (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Shortage of qualified local managerial
staff for public sector development projects .Ls another general country
risk. Its impact on Project implementation would be reduced by making the
appointment of key Project managers a condition of effectiveness, and by
stipulating that qualifications of managers must be acceptable to IDA
(para. 47). Obtaining sufficient Government's contributions in a timely
manner has been another recurrent problem for agricultural projects in
Zaire. The Government is making efforts to improve resource allocation and
financial management both at the national and sectoral levels; to support
continued action in this area, an action program covering resource
allocation questions, management procedures, and performance indicators is
to be prepared as a condition of effectiveness (para. 54). At the Project
level, the most serious risk facing Project implementation is the fact that
the target population is largely subsistence oriented, and developing a
commercial production system may take longer that anticipated.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section lCd) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.



-23 -
64.      Specal Conditios of the Project are listed In Section III
of Annex III. Special Conditions of Credit effectiveness ould be:
(a) cr    ffectiveness with the IFAD Loan (Pars. 54); (b)
establishme  of the Project Unit and appontme  of its key staff
(Paras. 46-47); Cc) conclusion of appropriate arragements between the
Project Unit and OR (para. 44); (d) conclusion of appropriate
arragements between the Project Unit and Irs (para. 39); and (e)
preparation of an action program oQ financial management acceptable to
IDA (pas. 54).
65.      1 an satisfied that the proposed Credit wold comply with the
Articles of Agreeuent of the Association.
PART VIE- DI
66.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
k.W. Clausen
President
Attachments:
Washington, D.C.
Decenber i3, 1984



-24-                                       ANEI
TABLE  31L                               Page  I  of 5
ZAZEE ~  ~       - *L  IEICAO  RAASHE
zAIE                  -SECU- Bml              OUfl S U3    UE)
lowT                OUsT RECE  ESTZAlE) lb
oeskor     LWiUcIE AFICA           mim 
196OLb  17&  ZSUAW&    SU20 OFSAKMU         AFRICA S. OF 5013
ARME  L01111 9C NOE
TlOAL                           Z35.4      2305.6       2305..
A    L.IcIL153AL                  146.4      151.2        155.7
w       conm  cos)                    70.0      110.0       IS1.0           249.1                 112
(Ifla  HS OF OIL EQUIVLE)         05.0       80.          760-           0.                    529_0
rmam         A  ,mL   SRns
POIULATOS.N1D-IEAR  (IUOSAUD)    17750.0    26B.0       30686.0
FUVAN POI1ATION (Z OF TOrAL)       15.7       ZI.6         37              12                    2.7
PO   IATIOW IV TMA 2t   ) (L)                            55.0              -
SrAIAUAY POPULATION CHILL.)                             I1? "
I!OLICO   11ITU                                           1.9.                                  
nMAnox smxr
m sq. IR.                         7.0        9.2         12.7            3275                  55.8
VW sq. m. ACI_ LMID             121.3       153.1       191.2           119.2                 111.5
POPATIS AGE  STmcmE (2)
0-14 !1s                        651        653          60.6                                  45.
1505 T                           52.9       52.9         52.4            51.5                  51.7
65 AXDADM                         3.0        2.6         2.8             2.9                    2.9
POWUTATIO atoms 301k CZ)
ToIAL                             2.2        2.0          2.9             2a3                   2.8
UN                                 ..        5.2         7.0              0.2                   5.2
CR5  KI31 RATE (1P  T                         7.8          0.0            -S                    67.0
CRUDEI37 RATE (rim 53005)          24.3       20.8        1.8             17.7                   15.2
G       DUCTON PATE                 3.0        3.0         3.0             3.e                    3.2Z
FAMLY PILAUZIG
AWTR. AU.AL (TOM)                  ..
05S CZ OF 3W135ED    5              ..
151 OF FOOD PROD. M  CAPllA
(1969-71-100)                     10l10      101.0        87.0            8e.                    91.
mEt CAPIT SUMPLT OF
CALORES CZ oF REquxiUtS)         90         Iol.o        94.0           3.4 9*.2
rEXImS (CURAS PR DAY)            30.0       37.0        33.0             9.9                   50.7
OF  t     LM ANIMAL NW PULSE    g.0        13.0         0.0 IC        1U.3                   17.0
WD CAES 1-5) DEAZE RXAE            32.0       27.0        20.0            z3.8                   26.7
LIrE EP=r. AT EuCr  (WAfRS)        50.0       43.9        50.3            48.4                   51L7
rWAr PlRT. RATE (PM TW0US)        150.0      L32.0       100.0           117.5                  102.7
ACCES TO SAFE WATER CZOO?)
TOTAL                               _        11.0       1I  id           21.5                  35.
Mtn"S                              ..       33.0        63a0 7[         6L.5                   54.1
RURAL.                                       5.0          5.0            1.2                   27.3
ACSS To ECEL DISPOSAL
(Z Or POpuLAnIo)
TOTAL                                        s5.0        22.0L           32.0
UDA                                ..        5.0        65.0 7T          0.2
RURAL                                       L5.0         S 0o7          24.                      .
POPULATION PER FICA             79620.0    30160.0      147.O it       27417.                 1190.3
FOP FM  23S15 P355               3510.0     Z290.0      1920.07         339.2                  2240.9
POP. r  OSPITAL NMED
TOnL                            230.0       3Z0.0       350.0 /I       10n9.0                 946.9
DRM                              6e0.0      100.0      150.0              S 35.2              301.7
ORAL                            170        1070.       2670.0          3094.0                 012.1
AU4ISSlCtS PR  SPrTAL MMD            ..         ..
AVERAGE SIZE OF USEW
TOAL                                .          ..
..        *.1          .                ..
AVERUE NG. OF FERSONSIROOK
eOAL.                                         ..          ..
URBA                               ..         ...
ACS To ELECT. CZ or   .LXCn   )
7TAL                                .          ..
URBA                               ..         ...
RtL                                ,           ..                          ..



A-UD II
-25-                                       PaeZyof 5
TABLZ 3
ZAIRE                 - 901L  -D          1R m
ZAIRE                               -wnm. Games EC331   DA9U15)G to
m                   CUITC  -mm cwTflIAU) 1k
esLs ir INCOb AwRICA
196db    197afb      ST=A"        SOU  OF 8*3*A        ATU sA. Or s$1RA,
ZA:  tOTAL                        60.0        M.0       90.0 I          69.2 a1.0
NAZE                   18.0       110.0       106.0    j       787 4                 90.5
Fp5lE                  32.0        6760         3.5                                  73.6
SEWS11DI: TOTAL                   3.0         9.0        23.0 A          13.1                   17.4
6MALE.                                             4.0        13.0        33.0          17.6                     23.7
FEUM                    1.0        6.0         13.0             64                   148
VUCAIog  CZ w SECW)                 26.5        9.6        10.0 IC          7.2                    5.3
lUDIT                              0O        43.0        30.0 If         46.1                   38.6
SECOR!                           20.0        20.0        21.07           25.9                   24.3
AM=T IZERAIU RATE CZ)              31.3 /b    13.0         56.5            46.3                   35.6
PASC  CARS/7XOXD 1W0                2.5         3.0          ..             3.                    20.7
RAI                    ppS D 10       ..        2.9         S.2            41.9                  lOO14
v- _WAE3SfLA     I                    ..        0.3         0.3             2.0                   18.5
UEMPA1U CMDfLY GENMRAL
_Er)  CIRCLATI
PE3  DUSAND  OIULATXZ              1.2        9.2         1.6 If          5.4                   17.2
ANUA ATE           ?0.1                  0.1           ..             1.4                   OJ
Tr ~
TOL  LAU  FORCE (OOS)             8216.0     9665.0     1266.0
UALE (ECET)                      46.4        44.5        42.4            36-5                   33d
AGEICUL?E (PRCE?)                 M0         79.0        75.0            77.4                   57.L
NDoSm (5P3)                       9.0        11.0        13.0             9.4                   17.4
PARTZCZ?ATU RATE CVUCET)
TOAL                              46.3       43.7        4.7             4U.0                   36.3
MALE                              51.9       49.8        47.7            52.1                   47.6
LUC                               4L.2       31.0        33.B            30.2                   2m1
ECQIC DEFUD_   R*.10                 1.0        1.1         1.2             1.2                    1.4
DnCur OF Para= i_a
RECEreVED B
IGST. 52 or suCU    _.                         .
urGiM  2020O HOUSEHOLDS
LOO   2l o0 BSEWNS                  ..         ..
LOOuS  0Z OF ,. ..S.. ..L .     .
'Lm     (NIIS clor
LEVEL CUSS FM CAPITA)
UtBARA                                                                  168.3                  525.3
,RAL,                              g.o.0.                                904,                  269.0
ESTIMAMTE RELATmE PMVERTY 1_3
LtVEL CUSS PER CAPtA)
IR*                                 ..         ..        76.0 Ia        107.7                  477.4
A                                   .          .4 3.0 7c                 65.0                  186.0
ESTIMAED POP  mELO9 AISOUIT
'C             1OI,T INCUS LEVE CZ)
URBA                               ''          ''                        34.7
60.0 1         65.4
Mr AVAILANE
Mr APPIA
MOTES
la  tM  group avrama  for each ladltr are r'p' t o-        .re_d a ittic   _. Covrqe of contries asig the
iicators d_pu  an evailablity of data nd In mt umifom.
/b  Unless orLda  wted, Umta for W6  refer to am  peer betti_  1959 and 1961: 'ta for 1970  et    196 and
191n; a dase for -et Recent Eetlmte  betwem 1980 md 1982.
Ic  1977; Id 1976; 1 1975; If 1979;   1978; A 1962.
JUNE. 9U



-26.-                                                                   ANNEXI
S-leIimg -                                                                        Page 3 of 5
e Itt'a  -. - 41st. Igs a-t.. att.ItUt jt It. a s.ee.t.Ne C IstlatIs. I. sn.l5 .1.. 1. .S..a lit! aly w - by latswats-ttp
nals - - It. Use - t.1554 tatlIlee - nat. - by tans... flttt. - seUSatI.. It. - I.g - -. 1at5* a-itt -
aesln eat.. - aItl t115 .g.e. - tn.5tt.tt. t.n.t. eqs. flltae.s tat... teI.s.
s e.s - -. alt . - sne a--. a et. !Sa t Ifl - te atm .114 .t bletI Satla- t In. It. 5y StI
Jo.. .. Issesat ye it, Isatat Ott f.st. aim alt. bIatla In e.n at.,.. a. .tW. ta.a - an... .t al.e.
aittall..t 1. It. ta.sts- atm 4a It. Sei - ta-lalt.t .SIaI..4 aflII - ye sstb IlS.S - - at!. - lswlty - - n-la tsa
aIm I- els IS. r tallest. a- It., SatatteS t5 tt.ttS aIm I-. tgta- at - ft. .taahtttt. - a.4 - pa-. t
SatItla. - f.tCI s-y .1 - I.w*ttt . Ie Se at-lets - at?. a- I, i 15 s.te t t.ttttts- - Itt. ty a.
a    a.       ta-as.l                                                                      lats. r        t.ta - ga-IsIs. fltt   by        1 - t.eIian
- i.t.t egy... at.. .wgltI.. let Stat .ed Set sg .alt'a. 133.                    eltIt        asflta tg   I    t.t *r*tt S       t.IIy IsL
tt.I    tnt ne                                                                     .t..a.             1   51    - Iltttat                  t C
t.lt.etIs,al - f..t. c   .I.afr..sl at..       I.a-elI. - ...s.e..:.                            t      e       ben. atatta. na-. ....tlatt              C
IC      .. a-..                                                                     .atltea. at.- n.sna       - Satat en.  a. rae! - ...IsItt  Itttat.
a. - 'wall Stilal by titlI lsS.Il tg U bltal n
m  eatee -         ...lg..aa          .e,..e       .sa...*                    atsIIaU  It   tte a. atl. eatsai a. .etll.UC             1a.t
t.3att  by -   tS5lt. atItet C lISti Se teat. St-t2    a.t.                           ..tatlatte s.c...    tlt.!a          ttttasn  e..tSatSy tt.tt.4
31145 t*tTh. -  t  tat.                                                               - S. Is-. -   tb..awt...  tlattta. w.e.eae attIUy  .aI.i.al
- - - tatSa- beat b..palaa.. atatate. latIsat b.ttb at
11t.    tInt. - nest mess ...s.s .g .at..l                                    t..t Is         t*tc.tstt  Itt        5   Sttlat In.   -    tt
atlet, tw     teic  *ta.Ia.. .....l.a.. ..-.a         a. bet.-. intta                     ta..I.   e.   tata. .11.) attb tit.. ta-a-Ia. entatt. at
-  aisIteCt .latl.ltttyt S. ttteta - *AI   S..3.t. te  t..lt. Set.                     tt.ttt t Ia-I-a tt   - Cetat it.ItSfltss
1.35., C an!  t                                                                       ad. -   Stlsl - - lIla!    g - sessIse - a Cts.e.
I- ltflSlsa. IttS - It. -. - astb.
tIIlaS..   dts' ttt!   - - a  3.li S.at3. *ei*t. -   SR                          s.e.C
--                                                                                         lIe. - t.teItIt tStin -          SbtSl - g.ttl. --   -  tent
stI- Ps-2set..S ta-I-. .1 Istslh - t..I. - .tt.-   .-...a re..tatt.                    - a   .st.l4 Isat.... a a att.e - asst.tslt            . test... met...
elves..  .tata- C ten. ateat at. Seatt stataetatee  C Ia.                                Slate. ..t.  .a..  a b..tt.. - Ir                   - tale. I.
flt.  tat. 51I* t   SW  Cats.                                              It. *ss..*a4 Fe a.tIatI.al   ....
a-l.etat NSt.1                                                                          gtt ..g -                -  - teaL -   - g.e. s-t.   g
- r.tat w.etlstat at-I-nan         Setat Se.                   a t    ,.y  a- St tEl        . a. usual tt..  inCtal
ae1                    -  a- 151 naS.I. -  tat!. 531,                            a.gt St.... n.ss.t tn.y.    aaI   .a,        en        at.wee -
ye..   .j.IIt.t.   .t.ts  Sag s-.atefy g    tmtIt. - tt..at                          S-tgIa  elIte.
ta-a. a.tn  ow. ..a.  a te... l.....att..g .tt  gn*. at.                          a.-.sas I. tS.nentr. rt.ntat -     tteinI - y.tat         C.-.?  -
esel.. las- as-a. a. esatis tat. atntv  atacnaa-c at I,..,                          cat.....ea I-tte    an Ibeleastly -  attn. m.ISt  at attlatl
mes.  -  eSIae  Ce t.ntStIg  C   alt. ... lb... tt.s4.                              - ta.L  at... -  etc.! t-ttte g....tttatly.
- ett.. t ttnt aSIC t.tttt I. tee Isata a. watt taS.
a-a. atttS.. le..a - - 1.s5 - a tan fia
tatgta- - a-talSty -  lattItIly tgt   Ce enSt.itat t.gw..                    t.aSI testS-tat atli...
talc... at..ta.tat - Ia -   It a.tb   .- -  s--..elfle   nall..                       p.ls..  .t...S - teat esa. -  la-I. - Ctt 1.154 Cl. a. itt.
gas. Se       I.  a-    I.  eats.a,   e. .-at.gttt. y.nI ml..                        s-.e:.. - .51 me - In .na-., as..! - t.ga..t    - .atw..ta-
gal..     sattI.a-g .t  - gayls.tintt tsel  St                                      .ltgart an.?-. .talt: S-5t5   tate. tttl    atta a-It
gettst ytsal.  t. .at. * ..tstalat. en han. gO  a. ca-tn                              -at.          .5 eat atlitus.I tatat  - tee            tat. eat
-  s.a  - en  satt .at. It.    at.at.as Ia at..a-.a-. 0g                             a-nfl  st.n att.attal        ass ..e.t..at   y.,rn   at.
-fl tat. Ia e      bs .teIa-.. ..e.l.ctat *Is -  s..tal -  .                        sIn -   .ta  s.s t.la              In tatlltat teitat 0.
tal. itt. wn!tCt.4 alSIt.elaI   .f ft. at.szagla. I. r                              t.ya.. t.l - let:. etil n   ta-as - eneta at Oat.   tg
es -. a el:Iat a etfll tag. *Sts - g.gtat  Sst..                               atI  vs-itt. -        I.e      a - et..I  at.n  am...fla-
gestatta.    ata - It It. Estate.!.. eseslaltat .tnII Ca tmI                             ttt4S  attt.t.  qstSlIttI    Ia-InC I51W  IletSIIa- CS
t.yn      lee tg  g..tattetl-.Iatt ltteItII,         l set..... Ita                      t. nelt, *w tZ 15 I? It  SI    Iett              a-a-
Is. -   sit.. It. ,  tssg.tafSs en la wa-   .5th. Tb.                                a-antI. tatt.Sta.
n.    U s    lstIt. It tet ,.e I It           sa - - gel, a e                     *at.gtsl ttt.ttlt..* r.aye.tg a  ....y., - l.astta-l Iinta.tIn
stale att.ty           tt.ttS I* It. *fl-t=t*t ts en tat   atm                     Stela aIl..SI.t. It5tttl  - 1111.' fl-na- ala IngSI5
It.      Ilts tI- tt.tt LII. ga-v.. at .e.ttt.S..I  s-tL lye es                     tuatestatly cat CstaItl* C tset IaItlatIa-s
Stat ta..                                                                 N.tI-t.atbtl rS.I. - .ete          .C.w. - Tttat .         ineal.t a.
PleflSIS55 tssllr                                                                      etl   I ett-tat lI-st. atSI   b.    att - InIt.55 I. Ite
U..' .1.    - t.C'I*sr wa.tatttt w.' .eta  a.!a... lIt. b.eee..S -                    I.St'.t1    Isat?..
1.151 a  It... aejI. C   ttIS Ca-.                                               tat*  L1ttet5 gas latIgall - Ultra, ate. Istls Is Utt         stInt at
-   -. -  ngg.lIsI.I Le. - Cs,a.ga at          tat .gt..l..ItI a...                  s seatatsst - lesS all w.ssl.gte satd Si           -
at,.: In.* teItla. mt Os...
1.t.Sa tat In. iggalas .t.ggs.tI - 1W! Idea It-SI Is...?.  tt.s.-. lIt-                    flat
-     I         gSt*a 1.1 ea.  a a.S  - atg..a    a at.-....                        e..... Ca. te. IS.S. a-.laIt.t - ta....'   t tttts  ette
*lta    te.. Itt',*    tIll Sea.                                                      gte esgaSe Sat- II- slate esIc.: satt.a         lnst. ans...
Italattat     t it.. g..I  - 1.1.1 - t.5.t: ala-I ett a Itl C5                        satISgI stSItI?55.
me w.getaaat we aelt-ec. nin4. -  .rfl.aI.                                         eall.  .gtatn let Ih.Ias.a eltS*ttat) - all l.ee - eslses Cs g.ata
fleaIat Cyefl ate. t.s..atlt - -    - neal se-a. y.a a .tt.t                              af5.ts It atIt: ttt.lI tsr tt.tt.      w..al.lIa. s-la
.Sslta- eS. SflI55  SItOfll. a. 11,1..:.                                              aSe.ss.sd g.Sstt. U tfltst          It rate alt gtattatS.tt- a e.at.
Cal   nb    . 1t' 155  -  .esl ale SagIls ate 115.5-s a t:a                            tlas- at slIsgI. tat ee tat-n        5 t.ye. = tttt.  slag a-C
v.a w...taaa: itt.. nC'S. a.. tati las.                                               .n.. .nt           t.....t
C1   IsatI ItIs IS.. latatdt - S.S.al  StlS psI IbSata. a   4-l..g                    Tb  telsl.. I... aSee. te.ttaO  - II tt.lt.15 IS. Itt           15
asestattate aet. t*I. -   SW  Sat..                                                 at.yal eletlg -  t         wtt-beltlI ..gte. IsIlaS  ig tst.I-tts
0.a   e.nIa         . - ely. at  a            ... a       aSS law  I.                  t.     gI. a. S. yae    a .eglayatSa a Wa...    Ia tatStI.
a-tel t.ltt..l.IC  l.gI.t 1     .S.s.Iat g...a.    .gtlt.                       n..... Cttg.lS.tS. leg lSe    eeIatIt.I -            lb. s-I.e
Ia-tate. vat..: ...aIl. essatte a.    t.tIn I. :t. tIll, a.t                         gtet.tattat a  14551 t.CWt ta-tttl atinfl  alIt-C - S t5flCl
Satl.                                                                                ntlltgatle   att.a eglfltg I. t..at. atent              II - Ia-a.
ISSlI. flatVte - alSSteC*  t...t! llb.a-.a.I -  aatI         .1  e.ttste               II -  tttl le II ..t-S., a IsSe I.e ItS, a a-b.
It Sallis.S.lfll stIllS. salt' aSts, ae .511.51 *n:. gt.SItlst                       Itt IttItt  tatI    tet Ctt    ' i.e -        at It. -      a
tell,t..                                                                              It.nla .535 5S. I.ssl. I-I          sisSIllS- - 4g151. tatSt. S.
yt. PieItt. - tei IIfl5tI at ntYIsE    -S -  tt.Ie. a dgltfi                          Sbltt  lIt.
me eg a-at-n.fl. e -s wtseIlgtl S.
StaIIlIl..t    S.ge 51 gatlg.tawlIt. It .IS att-la    . -    a                    LAn w.als
gttas-b.tgn. -   -  at-ntte         5   It-CS. Sllb..alS e.g                       tsItt l.a.. gsgls ltatstd.l - UgtalIy  ItIlat t.tes. t.tta.e ta-a
ga-ut.. .t.Igesttl.. at   at att..n   C tIns 0  a'.                                   ice.. -  at.ist -  sSst... Ints.ats-. tlattat.. at.. ga-ti..
..I..IS.It. .1 at . attttltIa- Cs ..tmn umegla
bit. a.   ItI7S                                                                          na.l.bla-. ISt  ICII    IC  tat.
tIlatI a Faa vne.t.Iat at. CstSlt SIel...?S.INt - 1.14.. .t I.e lagles               Ia-la Iat.S...lI - a-C. I.t.t falls at ..ut       at lts.S tat V nI-s
wetat a sIt II- sIfts..  It.ils.  stI                 Se.                    I..tI..tlS.s SstnsaI - I.atat l.gt. S. Iat.t. t.CnI.I.    1  a.
Ca.    tee' Istleg itS. SatII. Ca-sCtIIs. nat. attate. 1.541 S.-a-                   IIISIS.. at atlIsS.. - latSl tOg Pen. Ft-It, t*t         t   OslI
I    Ia-.a a 501 alIt a-  ttla            lWtLS IIll5SIS 15.1.                Itt-Il  (5.115.11 - I.*n. Ia-. It 5151.4. CS1.IlIt.. .a-ttIS.4s5 a.
5111.. a. gte at. .etI.         natIs IIaIIS. .1 gel t1It La                          aa.ttlt.-tlt.   sl a.    - t-lIeS    .1 lI-at t.a. flee.. lIlt. SePt
b-t.a . s-Ia-I .-y.e lt.i attn ISItlIa.  SI-at. SIll. -  Itt.                        ..SI  Alt..
Ia..                                                                                l.ell.InIIat *SIS St-list.1 - S.t.I  t.Is    Is-!. - pt.IIdISttt  Il
est eagle. ..nt. a tst.gI.. It-wall .t n...te.tI.I - Cm.a.4 1g..                       attUll,  S.t. ate lpIsI - lISt. els. C  e...l. l.a.. flIat at
a-lw  5e5155t5tI SI     a. ..tI.t at.ltaS. et .mw. e.g 1.9th.                         w.r.st.e. a last. ests t tlg  eS.I- 51 att   t tsswtlIIttlyt
4y.   .tS.S. t.aISI..I.t.ltS. *egS.tt tt=.ttt.... Ia-t.5 St..                       Ital, Slut* ..  St-I dse.  tI-S set -     - Eta. gstlltl.Sttt. ta
tOll, a. tt.  tstltet.  tel   SlIt. .Sgtsd   tIt.I tatt ss..*                         ItlIggIl..    15t SIltl 115 Si 115   .latt..     In. Ite 115.4. a
.tlSS   .1.4 It In. wCst...t. -   tS   St dS.IglI.I*5t.   C.t,s.                       5 t.115stt. -  Il.. .eIestI    ttt..
stat st.tsst.  - i.tbt-a at ees.aae..at t... e.g taste                        eg.ss. b..atatgt  .1. - 1511. .1 wtt.IatIt. Se  tie. *S    -t IS
tIhlallI a.  sstll .a-I*rIw  t.sIg..I t.tyalsn. b.4. dalI..                           Il,  stSfl C  teteSslIa tIltS        11.43.
* a. at. detIgIltItat .1 esatlstlaa. a. 511.51.4 55 ategssI Ia. aS.
S. Sesli  5..!: IetI.ab. tIPO a. Stn ASS.                                         I-In  atlItlS.?tt.
gg s-I-S *ttt a attest. lame -  45,1 - 11.1.11 Is-tI- a -  eaf lit                      i.sl... - eea..g. test. tS.tII I.. eb atl blsC -  atl   by ISISase I
a-     tp SI IC  atI Ni.   I       t1 sl ytt  It 5.II    - tts.  n                    eStlatI. IttI 11 15115.1. taSeti 30 lSlltS. a. wels5I a tell5at a
tatla-Ils fat alt t114.e t.ttMlttad - Ia- 114.14. tat Slia-                           beeblt.
atle a aV a tIlt .tat.tt As. - St a-a- a et! a.
.3.. ata.t.. a 5111* It age        tl t. asSet ratst...  lan                        flll Is-fl
ata.fl       ta-v en. a.-. a ut .a- a n.a te..as a. St a-a-                        It. l.Ilattte SS.155 at* sIt ategettelt t.me.t ti tely  IntS, a.
a   ltel w.aIsII S. at asset tat It. ssflS. attftate - IS. It Ct.                    IISIS t. lat.gteSIsE WI-b ca-tgelts 11.11.1.
ItlIgI SetS It-A    gt.s  I.e-It. See, -  tI Sat.                                   taI.eI.A  .15.1.15 gss.at. ISgse Iaet gIll at. .atlttl . an. a. gtgtl -
1st 15th. atse.ts steele let. stdI a. --  - pItst. .s.gl. ti 15.4                     lnIttlI es-nI In   t.-tI as lbS. 1St-at I.ssl ntt. alele a atIt.t
.iI.sd Itt. .5.5.1. a. gets.. I- aye -  Ate: lIlt-ti. late a. It?1                   ntgtlla-tt.        1g 41.1 elSIS ssSSt.tat st..tC  etatl.e  as tet
tat                                                                                   SIe.I..tt.
01114 lasts t..l tetIt laIs 15.1 rbasta.aI . S-set atSIn at. Ifs-sal Ic               yetSe.A  nIsgte IsiI. 15.5w ISts! flU  esy estIlal . .tla a. east -
*        i-a isaI. Ia elI ISIS. It lets et aset. let-al       I5eSt                  aIgtl Ittat..    ity In   ttt.t t s--C.Ifl   a-5O  ts           SS
tglSa las 4.iI-a feat ttts lalt.: St.S. ItIt -   It.! ISIs.                           eSeSasat lISa- a -  la-fly.          la-I II  ttC  Igt. lb. The,.
tset ella tAistewa tat bIg me a tltt.. as en. S-at.
11.15154 ItateatI.. atIts ItIa Iat.tty I.t.t. tasst It.It.SII - tIlt.
tataI-aea a   IlIb I.aataS . ls.g.at      .1 a-.. a Stlt    IsIt.                  -   IsysS   etl.ifl a .tetattat asIn5 a. .V5SI a.e. t.Sstslt
C Itelt USC. lIt. -   tat Sea,                                                        at...
ills- laIIli nt. leg 1.55.14 . e...at 41st. - IsiS-t.al. at
fse a.aty - etat Ctflet: SIlt. IC'S a.4 aIta..
n a ..t. *...y asst....l at .a..tatt.t - last ten., a. ItIst
See    einas IflISS.    I a. .Ststl sIte gsata-,lf stISat St fit                                                        Ca..s.Sat Stl,at. a. Isle lIsl.tat
ale tseelg It.t.4ss ttsstsC s.ett.. in.ga C saII...sA tsl Yt.atsSe t,aas gsjateas- ..eI
.Steaatsst.A s-SI s-b OS. I rat EtItetSd bttlat. Itetllt5 a. - a
tCIatp eta.) at atI .It a Itlg t.sett.IC t.g.tSIIa-. 15at
ate, a psealt I.t - tIsesI tagalsd 5w. lIe is. at....
lIt. a le -y e. ea-ablsa - bIlla stIlts v.sn.bla snea Si lIne
Se.  Ia gS-i          e.atsa.als attSt. a-tI latty In. It. Sessit...
ue tt Its      51a - tel tat. tt aat  a SsateesnIs esIt te
aIS. a., ae ealeblt. It. IsSfls at- ten.
Agt es latest. sls.latd) . east .Ies. tar.!
-       -        .7s.aa 5.t-.a .1
tSeaa 15154 t.*be. a- 115*3 t.s II 5att515 ItmesI at
.tIlSt. Si !l5t usa-If Ia pSS1aIIa-. latt.t. lIsteSsI . t.Itte.
tIe t.tlsnta a. ElsIe.!. elI, a .11.5 !gtts 51 Se
St-s-ag C. a-.e-t.e .tsls alt. - .1 1I eel.t.a ata
sIe la-atktta-.



- 27 -
Al I
P4M 4 of 5
-          1     e oof (P at
(WuI    5  At    A_} Pd_ _ M              &=ml (kath Raw CZ)
:e.!!  pdceu    (at  a    price)        (a  t          1970 idm)
___9           _____               1990      1981     198
(kas         P. j   2,      56238              100.0              2.5       2.9     -2.2
t~~~~~a  a l           AizS )         (419.4)              (75.6)           (2.4)      2.9)    (-2.9
AgrLcuta                  1963 4               35.7             28       2.7        2.0
Inustry                   1019.1              19.8             4.4       4.8     -3.6
Sevc                      22447               41.2            -0.1        1.5     -2.6
OQzuf                       4aM6.7              74.0              7.7       1.7     -9.5
GosInvem                    1314.1              24.1             81.8    -24.7    -21.3
E1pots E QFS 3/             1810.0               333             23.8       9.2     15.4
Iioz of CIES                1708.0              31.4            121.5    -199      -12.5
(mss Nltjaul Swvgs          1223                22.5             52.9    -353        5.3
PHX FIRR (cca G              t)
(MilflionZ)                        z of MP
A c t u a I                    (at adikt em)
1981       19M       1983 P        1981      L91      193P
Oarre     m                 485883     6259.1    la88.0         20.4      20.0       18.4
Ource    ei. eidie          5884.1        8.I    12715.0        26.5      27.0      21.3
Orrest dfId                -9733      -2189.0    -171.0          4.1      -7.0      -2.9
Caitaleqeidtozes             744.9      M.9         667.0         3.1      3.5       1.1
OuezaU defiri              -17182     -3273.9    -2366.0        -7.2    -10.5       -4.0
-r. CEDM A)D PEniC
1981     198       1983
=1i4o Z astiai  emf pi[)
y and Qi Ymq                                                   4664.9    8S0      140M.0
Back Credlt to Paiblc Setor                                    3783.6   7887.7   1522
Pdtk Ilt to Private                                            1342A     1931.1    2s81.8
(  P gas or Iid  Nhbers)
tey ad Qoei !oxI  {m Z of GDP -  dcet prices)                   19.5      25.7      23.041
Ox,amr Price In&= (1975 - 100)                                 1813.1   2487.9    4375.3
Asl1 peioneW daim in:                                          38.1      37.2      75.9
Qx~r }Price Imoc                                                 62.4     108.5     30.0
Blk Credit to Ptb:Ic Setor                                       32.3     43.9      49.2
Book Credit to Private Sector
:M- All cwersi. to dDllars in this table a  at tim avrne ercbIrge zete prevallit
Aszg tie peied c a
I/ Zdirim retixma am==s bmw motmrog  ad sild be
-           E  cation-
2/ At iet pciw, c ms ae epeas&d at               ost ad dl it aId &ee to tte
e.l1i  of vet frffrect tic  ad aidies.
31 BMWd CM xatimml auxtS dataA  Rd   of pasC8s esctitU    gien In
pFe 2 we ue  re1dble.
4/ latlae.



- 28-
P4e 5 of S
ZAW - E-03UC W]DaM
qAI( OF PAwOM  Otnt US)               1980       196         198        1983
Expax of goods ad                   12153       1632.0      15613      1622.8
of -Mld   I      _evum1uP F.O..   (038.2)   (1499.9)   (1456.1)   (19223)
Tliots of goods dld 2eias            Z23.6      2300.6      21263      2090.9
of iiidu  1       !dwId    . F.OJL  (1472.0)   (1290.0)   (11283)   (1112.8)
Private t        (net)               --79A        -3.5        -8.8      -21.4                                       9
Curent Alot   Rd                      417.7     -672.1 i   -3.8        - .5
Official grts (not)                   286.8      267.6       161.2      168.9
PIblic cita. (net)                    -22.1     -168.6      -156.8     -5.6
Priva  cpital (et) aid errows
ad admBs                            -2.0      -147.4       -70.8       833
SCAocatc                               20.8       18.9        -           -
Oter Finzwdyg                         282.4     6EEA        CZ4.9       518.5
Chge in mm 1teoutka e1 ies
(- - incea)                         -482       1132        353        -55.6
EXCOUC RJM:                          (7AUS)    (US$/Z)    (siP/Z)
ugis 24. 1979-Febary 22. I98           2.05                  0.35
FEbaLy 22. 1985-Jaue 19, 1981           3.5        0.33       0.2625
Jize 19, 1981-Swter 12. 1983            5.fZ       O08        0.1575
SWtaizer 12. 1983 1i                   2.93        0.04       OM52
(29.93)     (OM)
Fdbmry 24. 1984 1/                     33.0        0.03       O28
AVERAE ERE RAS:
'~)
1978                                   026
1979                                    1.29
198D                                   2210
1981                                  46384
1982                                   5J50
1983                                   12J.89
EaSM
?fleEalS ad Petroleum                1421.0      922.0       978.0     1050.4
Odom                                  617.2      577.8       476.1      672.7
Ttal                               33.2       1499.8     1454.1      1523.1
ECMRIL       (As of Dec. 31. 1983. Mill. 1SS)
PeblUc Dt.  iL. guaranteed                             4193
Nse-OzaMrA,zee                                         235
Ixal aststadizg & Disborsed                            462
DEBT SMIZ  FiaO RE  1983
Pube Deb   L. guaraned                                                   13.9 2,
Nr-Gzaratd Private Debt                                                   5.8
MImA LUH
CAs of S%teer 30. 1984., x.11- USS)
fzstonidix   Disbursed                                 29628
1Zu1iai                                                 270.16
ststaairg. 1x1. Umlsbxraed                             566.46
1/       t 2calber 12. 1983, Zaire Introducd a tranitioa1 duale h1ge rae
nW-e, conistig of an official race ad a free mark  ate, slm in
pareztesis obaue. Mm> tworates weu udfied a  Fbruary 24, 1984;
bcforth, t2e rate  ill floa  on a eady bads.
2/ Reflectssatem  piubk debt servic  arualy paid.
FA2SC
Daer 198;



- 29 -                             p1 a 2
s, ar 1mm mm c(EDE iZ
A. SADN  CF Mm uD     AMD MA                 (As of Simber 30, 194)
4kedit   Yewr                                              Amontk U $ 1fllJcz
Thmier   Sime    Borzu.                               Book      fL~ 1/   UxI1shzad
PrT r
tD JtMe   kmgo &    mwsport                  91.58 2/
1960   0traOD   T            se
(ke ITan  Wlly Dlsb d                                 100.00
Ebutr Cedits FUlly Disbursed                                    166.86
571      1975     ZA3RE      Eail-Rer n                        26.00         0.08
660      1975     ZAIE        Dttm t aabdiltati                 8.oM          0.62
796      1978     ZAI3E      ml Palm                             9.0O         7.23
902      1979     ZAIRE      hIys                              20.00          5.75
998     198E                 Fifth 1kv. Fiz                     18.50         3.72
1040     1980      ZSIulbolder Iki                               11.00         7.68
1089     1981      ZI            l R.ag& 9gar                   26.40 3/       5.47 3/
1152     1981      ZAIRE       .go-qr   n1chicalu b              2.903/        1.383#
18       1982      ZIE        CNAI  11 I    zatm                26.00R 3/     19_2 3
1224     1982      ZAIr      P a          SysReab1litatim  19.00 3/           15.753/
1241     1982      ZAIRE      Wter Sapply Il                    18.0031       11.26 3/
1244     1982      ZAIRE      Agrl=m1i T.L                       5.0013        3.723/
1264     1982                 second (bttoa                     11.30 3       10.633
1273     1982      ZAIRE      Sixth E1C                         21.503/       15.553/
1290     1982      ZAIEE      HEgmy v                           43.503/       28.913/
1325     1983      ZErth East Ewal 1eelopmt                     21.03/        11.31 3/
1335     1983      7A3W       Ebrts 'ehRblitatiox               25.00 3/      24.83 3/
1336     1983      ZAIRE      (cod    T.A.                       7.00 3/       7.00 3/
1409     1983      ZAIRE    1Etrole  Sector T.A                  4.5D 3/       4.07 3/
1421     1984                 RzI 3l ydroelectzie               15.00 3/      15.00 3/
1475 4/  1984      ZAIRE      Ealwys I                          26.00  /      26.00'17
1492 /   1984    S R           weEth iK                         36.00 3/      36.00 3/
L519      1985     ZAIRE        xatian Tewhtcal Ansistare        9.00oy        9.00 y
Total (less cancellations):                 191.58   568.46         270.16
- of .hich bas been repaid                  130.95      2.02
Ibtal i o tstaxtr.g:                         60.63   566.44         270.16
Amamt sold:                      54.47
of vhch has beea repadd        54.47
MIbtal noib hed by Emk and mIk 1/            60.63    566.44
Ibtal tUdLsbwrsedl                            0.0                   270.16
1/ Prior to exbag  adjustUnt.
2/ Oranteed by the Kingc  of BeigLus.
3/ US dollars amts compted at the rate of Credit egotiaton   .
S[gd but not yet effective.
?      oued  hit not yet sigred.



- 30 -
AIMI
Page 2 of 2
B. srA(w1 CF IFC DEsf115 (As of Septed3er 30, 1984)
Fiscal                           Type of           hAmt in U1S$ fhiona                  )
Year    ahugor                   BLvdness          jm    Fiv  Tbtal
1970    Sxiht4 Fin icMe de       1Ec                 -      0.76    0.76
1979    7aire Qilf 01C   y       aul pOdCtion      2.50             2.50
& excpl. Qmqmy
1979    Zaire Petroleaw (2mpaay   Oil prodzxin    1.61             1.61
& expl. (knay
19813   NDrd-Swi Ikidustrie-
FIbFF GMB, for studies
on an aluniniua project                  0.23      -      0.23_
Total gmss cmrtsmts                        4.34    0.76    5.10
Iess repayuits                             3.70      -      3.70_
k7 by :EC                                  0.64    0.76    1.40
)



- 31 -                          ABRE III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:                  June 1982
(b)  Preparation by:                  FAO-IBRD Cooperative
Program
(c)  Appraisal Mission:               November/December 1983
(d)  Negotiations:                    November 1984
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:   May 1985
Section II:  Special Project Implementation Action
Preparation of Annual Work Programs (para. 49)
Section III:  Special Conditions
(i) The practice of "imposed cultivation- to be discontinued
in the Project area (para. 29);
(ii)  Agricultural inputs to be sold at prices covering costs
(para. 42);
(iii) Government to continue to apply its policy of free-market
pricing and free movement of agricultural commodities
(para. 62);
(iv)  Approval by IDA of annual work program as condition of
disbursement (para. 56);
(v) Special conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a) cross-effectiveness with the IFAD Loan (para. 54);
(                            (b) establishment of the Project Unit and appointment of
its key staff (paras. 46 and 47);
(c) conclusion of appropriate arrangements between the
Project Unit and OR (para. 44);
(d) conclusion of appropriate arrangements between the
Project Unit and ATIs (para. 39) and
(e) preparation of an Action Program satisfactory to IDA
on financial management and budget procedures of
DADR. The Program would also serve as a monitoring
tool (para. 54).



IBRD 179
N (QUA TEUR~~~~~~~ ZA IR E
\_r;:.   --  OMrUR                          $LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
N(.   \,    \                             |     KASAI OCCIDENTAL - ADMINISTRATIVE  DIVISIONS
%. y       ol_~_)   ?>_          t                                           Project Area
A  I:O GA                                                           Regiaonl Capital
i:   ESAZONCd        :}- '*u                                    x   Sub-Region Copitols
NA rIONAI                                                     0   Zone Capitals
v  t  !  PA RK                                           -     Roods of Ceneol Interest
-ArK                                      <l  vt- | ,->/- Railroads
V%~~~.s--                                                               Rivers
Collectivity Boundaries
DE 5E SEE K-                                                   Zone Bundaries
i.1...      (          0                Sub- Region Boundarie
- !   X                             --   Region Boundaries
j  j t     <                      -   Irternotional Boundaries
0   25   50  75  100
I  L  E    0   1IL    L                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
S.                                                                                                                                S.,|L    i     {g 
J~~~~C. N                                                         >a                       _e__
F,. fj kwi                    L U                                      E, : O 5tW =_ , " 
Q4                                                   ro A%-. A%.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.v.. ? 
?    )    J     t KA|Z ~U MB 8 AS 
)2     ;    l_ #    2  DI~~~~~BA  'A                          2 7 W
'  - U? A R          SU AN
CAMEROON                               6*
'V~~~-
'  {         R           |        _        k   r   x               V~~~~~~~~~~~~~EOPLE5S ( EOC  `0C
-   ABN  O        i ?5*km*dn 
l  l    u   fl   z A          ( JMSZA*E;            j.d, 
G  o  ,    A   1  \    /              |    ,                  z                   ;r~~~~~~~~~~~~kT    e
AN4GO LA    ~ S'
209 -   5    H           A   - A -                  AA
215    22                                            JI 12                         ZI



q      -                                                                            E 
20'                       219                       22'                       23'                       24
-2*EOUvgA rEtER   LULUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -
'--   \    \\                         \ MAJOR TRANSPORT ARTERIES AND URBAN CENTERS
X   >  a-..                                                                Project Area
-'      Nalional/Regional Roads maintained
v   )   J   s  v    r                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by Project
- _ ..Ruror Roads maintained by Project
4-".,                                        -   ^~ ... National/Regional Roads maintained by OR
(SA LONGA                /   \                                             Railroads
rAI /VA rIONAI                                                       6 4! River Ports
* /     RA RK          .                                                      Ferries
3'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                                     't' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Airports
'3'   9     /  .~ ,>2  _/~'                           w  Mining Centers
-k /                                                                 > > , q 1 ^ Major Food Markets
*  Sector Headquarters
It<  ~ ~~~~~~~aTemporary Sector Headqluarters
,   a (   D  E  K fiE  S E  '                                    a  Seed Farm
.   ..XDekese  (0                                      *  Training Centers
Zone Boundaries
Sub-Region Boundaries
(     O                .>, a --  Region Boundaries
-    -/-International Boundaries



4              -  -~~~~Sub Regiort Boundaries
ha /Ca /0                     --Region Boundaries
t q _ -*-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
T     \         )  X~~~~M  W E K A    t)                       t   
t   8   I  L  E gB  O   e   ,            >Es           1j;         Luwmbo            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 25    50   75   100
/   '~~       4           4       8     ^  \D,:{MENGE                 7       2,4'                      25'    | \~
A  N  G  O     L     A                 |            . .\ 1/                8         _                           .sA Z U   t. i-   i
e"Wll-w jeeo_ z fi So   Km  ....                                                    f A  P A  _O  .1                              L... Nrk   J AUBA.  
20~~~       ~      ~     ~~~~           ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2K!iw        r 2943



