Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                              X
Report No. 3 3 8 7 -PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 19, 1982
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Peso (P) 1.00   =  US$0.123
P 8.10          =  US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)       =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.62 miles
1 sq km           =  0.386 square miles
1 kilogram (kg)   =  2.205 lb
1 ton             =  1,000 kg
= 2,205 lb
1 hectare (ha)    =  10,000 sq m
= 2.47 acres
4?                     ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      -  Asian Development Bank
MNR      - Ministry of Natural Resources
BFAR     -  Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
PFDA     -  Philippine Fisheries Development Authority
FIDC     -  Fishery Industry Development Council
FAO/CP   -  Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
DBP      -  Development Bank of the Philippines
PU       -  Project Unit
GOVER1,1MENT OF THE PHILIPPINES FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.   PROJECT BACKGROUND . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
A.  Introduction . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  Fisheries Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    I
C.  Past Bank Lending for Fisheries Development.                       8
2.   FISHERIES AGENCIES OF THE MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES  . . . .   10
A.  General  .                    . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .    10
B.  Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources  .   . . . . .  .   11
C.  Philippine Fish Marketing Authority. . . . . . . . . . . .   15
D.  Fishery Industry Development Council    ..21
E. Proposed Reorganization    ..23
3.   THE   PROJECT  .    .  .  .    .  .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
A.    Objectives   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
B.  Description  . . . . . . . .   . . .  . . . . . . . . . .    24
C.  Detailed Features. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
D.  Cost Estimates . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
E.    Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
F.  Implementation Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
G.  Procurement  . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
H.  Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
4.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES  . . . . . . . . .   35
A.  Area Development Subproject  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .    35
B.  Institutional Strengthening  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
C.  Lending Terms and Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
D.  Accounts, Audit, Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . .   38
5.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
6.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .                       . . . . . . . . .  42
7.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
This project was appraised in October 1980 by Messrs. Khoo, MacGregor, Kada
(Bank), Gunawardena (FAO) and Mornement (Consultant). Messrs. MacGregor and
Hindle updated the Appraisal Report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
1. Present Organization - Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
2. Proposed Organization - Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
3. Present Organization - Philippine Fisheries Development Authority
4. Proposed Organization - Philippine Fisheries Development Authority
5. Main Features of the Area Development Subproject
6. Tables
1. Area Development Subproject - Total Estimated Costs
2. Institutional Strengthening - Cost Estimates for FIDC
3. Institutional Strengthening - Cost Estimates for PFDA
4. Institutional Strengthening - Cost Estimates for BFAR
7. Area Development Subproject - Implementation Schedule
8. Area Development Subproject - Proposed Organization for the Corporation
9. Area Development Subproject - New Pump Boat Financial Analysis (Table 1)
- New Pump Boat Cash Flow Summary (Table 2)
10. Area Development Subproject - Corporation Cash Flow and Financial
Analysis
11.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
12. Additional Documents and Data in the Project File
Charts
Layout of Proposed Facilities at Cataingan - IBRD 15436
Layout of Proposed Facilities at Catbalogan - IBRD 15437
ayout of Proposed Facilities at Miaga - IBRD 15438
G.neral Layout of Proposed Site at Placer - IBRD 15439
Layout of Proposed Facilities at Placer - IBRD 15440
Layout of Proposed Facilities at San Jacinto - IBRD 15441
Layout of Proposed Facilities at Santo Nino - IBRD 15442
General Layout of Proposed Site at Bulan - IBRD 15443
Layout of Proposed Facilities at Bulan - IBRD 15444
Design of Pump Boat - IBRD 22247
IBRD 15435



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested the Bank-s assis-
tance in financing a National Fisheries Development Project. The project
forms part of a Government program to expand fish production and improve
marketing efficiency mainly for the benefit of municipal fishermen, who belong
to the lowest income group in the country. The project would also strengthen
the operations of the Government-s fisheries agencies. Prepared by the
FAO/CP, the project was appraised in October 1980 by Messrs. S.J. Khoo, J.
Macgregor, F. Kada (Bank), H. Gunawardena (FAO), and P. Mornement
(consultant). This report, based on the findings of the appraisal mission,
has been updated by Messrs. Macgregor and Hindle.
B. Fisheries Sector
Resource Base
1.02      A nation of 7,107 islands, the Philippines with its long coastline
of about 18,400 km and extensive marine and inland waters, is well-endowed
for fisheries production. The extent and distribution of marine waters
under its jurisdiction and inland waters suitable for fisheries production
through fish ponds and fish pens are given in Table 1.1 below.
Table 1.1: TYPE AND SIZE OF WATER BODIES
Body of water                      Area (sq km)              x
Marine oceanic /a                      1,216,570             81.48
Marine coastal 7H                        266,000             17.81
Freshwater swamps                          1,275              0.25)
Brackishwater swamps                       2,475                   )
Freshwater fishponds                          60              0.12)
Brackishwater fishponds                    1,760                   )
Lakes, reservoirs and rivers               5,000               0.33
Total                             1,493,140             100.00 /c
/a  Areas beyond the coastal waters which are generally 200 m deep.
7i  Generally up to 200 m deep.
7Y  Percentages do not add to 100 due to rounding.
Source: Ministry of Natural Resources.



-2-
1.03      Despite marine waters totaling about 1,482,600 sq km, fishing
operations have been concentrated in coastal waters (266,000 sq km) because
these are easily accessible and are the traditional fishing grounds of
municipal fishermen (para. 1.07). However, the concentration of fishing in
coastal waters has resulted in overexploitation of available resource6 in
some of the areas.  On the other hand, the larger areas beyond the coastal
waters have been to some extent left untapped, signifying that the greater
proportion of any significant expansion of marine fisheries production in
the future would need to come from this area. The extent of the potential
expansion is indicated by rough estimates of maximum sustainable yields
ranging from 1.7-2.5 million tons a year.  Comprehensive data on assessment
of fish stocks and their sustainable levels of production are not available
although some work on this is underway. It is essential that the Government
push ahead with the collection of such data, beginning in areas which have
reportedly been overfished. Systematic resource surveys are vital for
proper management and conservation of the fisheries resource in the country
and also for the fisheries industry.
1.04       Production from marine waters can also be expanded through mari-
culture which is already being practiced on a limited scale. Its potential
in production of mussels and other mollusces, crustaceans (shrimps) and
seaweed is significant but largely unexploited.
1.05       Inland fisheries have considerable potential for expanding
production. Of the approximately 10,600 sq km of areas suitable for fishponds
and fish pens, only about 1,820 sq km have been developed for fishpond
production (see Table 1.1 above). In addition to the large area available for
development, significant increases in yields from the existing fishponds can
be achieved through improved technology and other inputs.  The extent of the
increases that can be obtained is indicated by current yields ranging from the
national average of less than 1 ton per ha/year to 6-10 tons for the
technologically advanced ponds.
Contribution to the Economy
1.06      Fisheries production in 1979 valued at some P 10.5 billion
(US$1.3 billion) accounted for 4.8% of the GNP. Most of the fish is consumed
locally as it is a staple and major source of animal protein in the Filipino
diet. Per capita consumption of fish amounted to an estimated 34 kg in 1978
which accounted for about 60% of all the meat consumed. Tuna, shrimp, squid
and other higher value species worth US$92 million and accounting for about 5%
of total fisheries production were exported in 1979. Although exports
comprising essentially high value species have been increasing significantly
in recent years, they have been partly offset in value terms by imports of
cheaper fish consisting mainly of canned sardine and mackeral. In terms of
quantity, imports have been well in excess of exports during the 1970s,
reflecting the rising domestic demand for fish.



-3-
1.07       Some 500,000 artisanal or municipal fishermen, 42,000 commercial
fishermen, and 194,000 people in aquaculture are engaged in fisheries
production. An additional 55,000 persons are employed in fish processing.
Municipal fishermen are officially defined as subsistence and other small
scale producers who fish from boats of 3 gross tons or less or without boats
in inland and coastal waters. Commercial fishermen are larger-scale producers
using boats of more than 3 gross tons who are legally required to fish only in
waters deeper than 13 m (7 fathoms) and beyond 3 km from the coast.
Production
1.08      Increasing at an average annual rate of about 5% during the 1970s,
fisheries production amounted to an estimated 1.6 million tons in 1979.
Marine fisheries accounted for about 80%, inland fisheries 12%, and aquacul-
ture the remaining 8% of total production during 1977-79.
Table 1.2: FISHERIES PRODUCTION 1970 AND 1976-79
Marine            Inland          Aquaculture           Total
'000 tons   %    '000 tons   %        000 tons   %    -000 tons   %
1970                                                                 989    100
1976       1,127    81        153      11        113       8       1,393    100
1977       1,231    82        163      11        116       7       1,509    100
1978       1,282    81        180      11        118       8       1,580    100
1979       1,239    78        209      13        133       8       1,581    100
Source:  Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR).
Note: Breakdown of total production for years prior to 1976 is not
available.
1.09      The bulk of the fish caught in marine waters is tuna, scad,
sardines, mackerel, slipmouth, anchovies, bream, snapper and perch species.
They accounted for about three-fourths of the catch in 1979. Milkfish,
shrimp and tilapia are the main types of fish derived from inland waters and
aquaculture. The majority of the catch from inland waters comes from Laguna
de Bay, a 90,000 ha lake situated south of Manila. Brackishwater ponds
account for most of the aquaculture production.
1.10       The contribution of municipal fishermen to total production has
been estimated at some 55-60% with commercial fishermen accounting for the
remaining 40-45%. As of 1979, there were 2,133 licensed commercial vessels
of over 3 gross tons (GT) involved in fishing operations. Only one vessel
(purse seiner) was larger than 1,500 GT.  Vessels ranging in size from 3-20



-4-
GT and from 21 to 100 GT accounted for 55% and 35% respectively of the total.
Trawl, bagnet and purse seine are the principal gear being used for fishing.
1.11       The number of fishing vessels operated by municipal fishermen has
been estimated at some 250,000 or an average of about 2 fishermen per
vessel. These vessels, referred to as bancas, have wooden hulls usually
fitted with outriggers to provide stability. About 45% of the bancas are
motorized. Motorized bancas are widely referred to as pumpboats. The
most commonly used fishing gear are handlines, gillnets, small liftnets, and
casting nets which are low cost and easy to operate.
1.12       Fisheries production by municipal fishermen and other small-scale
producers has been hampered by inadequate landing and marketing facilities,
low productivity, poor handling of fish, and unfavorable prices received for
fish sold. The low catch per vessel, estimated at 1-2 tons a year, is due to
traditional fishing methods. Most fishermen use only one type of fishing
gear (para. 1.11), fish in areas which are being overfished, and are unable
or reluctant to fish in deeper waters. Lack of ice, improper methods of fish
handling, and poor insulation of the vessels result in significant losses.
To avoid any significant deterioration of quality and with inadequate nearby
marketing centers, fishermen have no recourse but to sell to individual
buyers either at sea or their usual landing places at unfavorable prices. To
pay off their debts, many fishermen also sell to buyers who supply inputs on
credit which in turn restricts their marketing outlets. Limited access to
high priced urban markets as well as the lack of ice and cold storage
facilities also require that the catch in excess of local fresh fish demand
be sold for sundrying, salting, smoking and fermenting, for which fishermen
receive lower prices. These problems and the general absence of alternative
employment opportunities have relegated municipal fishermen to the lowest
income group in the country. Recent socio-economic surveys indicate that the
average household income of municipal fishermen was less than half the
poverty threshold income for all households in 1978. Declining availability
of sustainable fish resources in some of the coastal waters owing to
overfishing, and growing competition from commercial fishermen operating in
these waters aggravates the problem.
Marketing
1.13      Although there are more than 100 landing sites spread throughout
the provinces, infrastructure and facilities in support of marketing are
inadequate. The Navotas Fishing Port and Fish Market in Manila is the only
commercial fishing port in the country (para. 2.23).
1.14       Ice produced by existing ice plants for fisheries is likewise
inadequate. The significant shortage is indicated by the fact that most of
the privately-owned ice plants (about 100) with capacities ranging from one
to 160 tons a day are geared for nonfish uses, and that only 3 of the 16 ice
plants for fisheries with capacities of 5-40 tons a day and owned by the



- 5 -
Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) are operational. Moreover,
many of the plants, including those operated by BFAR, are located some
distance from the fish landing sites.
1.15      About 60-70% of total fisheries production is sold fresh, while
30-40% is sun dried, salted, smoked, canned, processed into fish meal, sauce
and paste, and frozen for export.  In general, fish of lower quality are
consumed in local areas and those of higher value marketed in the cities.
1.16      Fish supplied by municipal fishermen are seldom more than a day old.
Part of the supply is sold directly to consumers, often by members of the
fishermen's families. Fish distribution at this level is usually limited to
the immediate hinterland. The remaining supply, especially where the catch
volumes are larger and concentrated, is collected by middlemen/buyers for
transport to the larger markets. These buyers usually purchase the higher
quality fish owing to its demand in the major cities. Varieties such as
sardines, anchovies and slipmouth, which have a limited market in wet form,
are absorbed by the local fish processors.
1.17      Although commercial fishermen land their catch at more than 100
sites, the bulk of the landings are concentrated at a few major urban markets
accounting for about 80% of the total commercial catch.  At present, commer-
cial fisheries operate without proper fishing port facilities with the
exception of the Navotas Fishing Port in Manila. Consequently, a large number
of commercial fishing vessels land their catch at various types of landing
sites of which only a few (those at or near the larger coastal cities and
towns) have marketing sheds. Most of the sites are just landing places where
the fish are sold in the open.
1.18      The focal point of the marketing chain is the fish broker.
Virtually all the commercial fisheries catch goes through a broker at either
the provincial or major market level. When the fish is landed, it is sold
either to a middleman called a buyer/seller at an agreed price, or consigned
to a broker. Consignment is the prevalent practice with the broker often
supplying operating funds to the vessel operators. The buyer/seller sells to
wholesalers who in turn sell to retailers at the various urban markets.
1.19      Under these conditions and with limited storage capacity, leftover
fish are sold at a significant discount for drying and other processing.
Brokers charge 5-7% commission. The buyer/seller adds 15-20%, wholesalers
20-25% and retailers 10-20% margins to their respective costs. Fishermen are
thus likely to receive only about 40% of the price paid by consumers.
1.20      Most of the marine fisheries catch to be sold fresh is brought to
the main urban markets by sea, whereas fishpond production is usually brought
in by trucks or jeepneys. Road transport is generally undertaken by the
brokers, sellers/buyers and wholesalers.  Some large operators use their own
insulated vehicles to transport high quality fish to urban markets for local
consumption or export. Fish landed at the Navotas Fishing Port and



- 6 -
provincial markets are usually delivered in galvanized buckets or tubs, each
holding between 30 and 40 kg. Use of these containers combined with poor
icing, lack of refrigeration in most of the commercial vessels, and the
general absence of properly insulated fish holds in the traditional fishing
boats have resulted in significant bruising and loss of quality.
Institutional Support
1.21      The Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) is responsible for fisheries
development through its three fisheries agencies, the Bureau of Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (BFAR), Philippine Fisheries Development Authority (PFDA),
and Fishery Industry Development Council (FIDC). The performance and
operations of these agencies are described in some detail in Chapter 2 below.
1.22      Other important institutions supporting fisheries development
include (a) the Development Bank of the Philippines, the Land Bank and rural
banks which provide credit to fishermen and fisheries companies; and (b)
research and training centers comprising the Southeast Asia Fisheries
Development Center, a regional organization engaged in aquaculture research;
University of Philippines Brackishwater Aquaculture Center; Central Luzon
State University with expertise in freshwater aquaculture research; UNDP-s
Brackishwater Demonstration and Training Centers; Philippine Council for
Agriculture and Resources Research which coordinates all research work on
fisheries; and the International Center for Living Aquatic Resources
Management, an international organization established in Manila in 1977 to
conduct, stimulate and accelerate research on the development and management
of aquatic resources in the less developed countries. In addition, FAO-s
South China Sea Project and the University of Philippines undertake surveys on
marine fisheries resource assessment.
1.23      Efforts by the Government to assist fisheries have included
technical assistance and credit programs for the construction and equipping
of fishing vessels, establishment of ice plants, and development of
brackishwater ponds; aquaculture research; fisheries training; and the
establishment of the Navotas Fishing Port in Manila (para. 1.13) and small
fish landing sites in the provinces. These programs, including the Bank-
financed projects (paras. 1.28-1.35), have been oriented towards commercial
fishermen and larger-scale fishpond operators. Measures to improve the
incomes of municipal and other small fishermen, which have hitherto not been
supported by the Bank, have been limited to credit schemes for the purchase
of boats and engines. These schemes, of which the earlier Selda loans and
on-going Biyayang Dagat Credit Program are by far the most important, have
had little success mainly because many beneficiaries considered the loans
provided as Government grants which need not be repaid.  Input supplies and
technical extension support to increase fish catch were lacking, and some of
the beneficiaries reportedly were unable to sell their catch due to
inadequate local market outlets. Small fishermen and fishpond operators
could best be assisted by projects integrating the provision of improved



landing and marketing facilities with input supplies, including credit for
their purchase, and technical extension support.  This approach, which the
Government now wishes to adopt as part of its efforts to assist small
fishermen, would be incorporated in the proposed project (para. 4.01).
Development Plans and Priorities
1.24      The Government accords high priority to the development of the
fisheries sector. Its development objectives for the sector in the 1980s are
to expand fisheries production to meet domestic consumption needs and export
demand, improve the efficiency of production and its distribution and
utilization, achieve proper management and conservation of the fisheries
resource, and promote and coordinate the interests of the private and public
sectors to ensure the sound development of the fisheries sector. Production
is targeted to increase annually by 5.5% to about 2 million tons a year by
1983 with municipal fisheries contributing 50%, commercial fisheries 37%, and
aquaculture and inland fisheries the remaining 13% of the projected increase.
To increase production, municipal and other small fisheries would be assisted
through credit programs for investment in fishing boats, gear and other
fishing supplies, and aquaculture would stress yield increases with less
emphasis on expanding the fishpond area. Yield increases would be achieved by
expanding farms for the production of fingerlings and upgrading the quality of
technical extension support.
1.25      Major projects to be implemented over the next few years include the
establishment of a fisheries complex in North Palawan financed by ADB, the
Fisheries Training Project and Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project
(paras. 1.32-1.33) being financed by the Bank, credit schemes under the
Biyayang Dagat Credit Program, and the construction of five regional fishing
ports financed by Japan. The Government also plans to expand and improve the
facilities of the Navotas Fishing Port, and establish an additional five
regional fishing ports, about 100 small fish landing sites and a fisheries
complex in Zamboanga during the 1980s.
1.26      Additional major efforts by the Government to assist fisheries
development in the 1980s should accordingly include measures to:
(a)  improve and expand the collection of fisheries statistics;
(b)  intensify efforts to assess the fisheries resource and its proper
management and conservation;
(c)  prevent overfishing in coastal waters and reverse the growing
competition between commercial and municipal fishermen to ensure
that production increases do not exceed the maximum sustainable
yields;



-8-
(d)  increase facilities for the efficient movement and marketing of
fish and reduce the current high fish losses and increase the
supply of better quality fish to consumers;
(e)  encourage fishing in deeper waters, especially following the
recent 200-mile extension of its marine waters;
(f)  increase the participation of small operators in fishpond
development; and
(g)  develop and promote devices and techniques to economize on the
use of fuel for fishing.
1.27      BFAR, PFDA and FIDC need to be strengthened considerably, by
upgrading the skills of the technical and other professional staff through
training and provision of supporting equipment and facilities. High priority
should be given to augmenting BFAR-s capability to assess and manage the
marine fisheries resources and to providing its field officers with increased
mobility to carry out statistics collection, enforcement of fishing
regulations and other activities pertaining to fisheries conservation and
extension support.
C. Past Bank Lending for Fisheries Development
1.28      The Bank's lending for the fisheries sector, channelled through nine
projects (para. 1.29), has been aimed at assisting the Government achieve its
objectives of increasing production, mainly for domestic consumption, and
improving the efficiency of fishing operations and the quality of the catch.
Three projects were wholly for fisheries development. The remaining six
projects included funds for other purposes in the agriculture sector.  Funding
for fisheries comprised mainly the provision of credit for commercial
fishermen and fish pond operators through the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP), rural banks and the Land Bank; and the establishment of a
national system of fisheries training.
Fisheries Projects
1.29      Fisheries Project I (Loan 891-PH).  Signed in May 1973, the project
with a Bank loan of US$11.6 million provided funds through DBP to fisheries
operators for (a) procurement of 60 fishing boats, 10 fish carrier boats,
three ice plants, two slipways, and fishing equipment for existing boats; and
(b) rehabilitation and improvement of 11,900 ha of existing fish ponds and
development of 100 ha of new fish ponds.  Funds were also provided for
technical assistance. Project funds were fully disbursed in August 1979.



- 9 -
1.30      According to the Project Completion Report (PCR) dated July 22,
1980, actual lending for pond fisheries covered about 12,700 ha which exceeded
the appraisal estimate, but subloans for the marine sector financed only
35 fishing boats, an ice plant and slipway, due mainly to rapidly escalating
costs and lack of demand. It is clear that the fish ponds financed by the
project have generally shown significantly higher yields than estimated during
appraisal. On the other hand, the marine sector appears to have achieved
little better than half of the incremental fish production estimated at the
time of appraisal. For the average 25 ha fish pond, the financial rates of
return range between 29% and 59% and the economic rates between 26% and 53%.
In the marine sector, the financial rate of return on a 75 gross ton trawler
is about 22% and the economic rate about 28%. These rates are in line with or
higher than those estimated at appraisal. The nonquantifiable benefits of the
project have been significant. The project has provided incremental
employment opportunities, dispersed improved technologies, and developed a
successful training program for extension officers in pond fisheries. The
major lessons learned include the need to (a) provide some flexibility in the
financing of specified investments so as to enable project lending by DBP to
respond to changes in the needs of the industry as they arise, and (b)
undertake project reporting and sample surveys in the early phase of project
implementation in order to provide for proper evaluation of the project
following its completion.
1.31       Fisheries Project II (Loan 1270-PH).  A continuation of the first
project, this second project financed by a Bank loan of US$12.0 million was
signed in July 1976. The project provided funds to (a) construct and equip
17 fishing boats, convert 4 secondhand boats into fish carriers, and establish
three ice plants and a slipway; and (b) develop about 9,100 ha of new and
existing fish ponds. The loan was fully disbursed in February 1981. Subloans
approved for marine fisheries financed three ice plants and 46 fishing boats,
significantly more than projected. No demand exists for the projected fish
carrier boats and slipway. Actual lending for fish ponds is in line with the
appraisal estimates. The project has generally met its objectives of
increasing the volume and improving the quality of the fish catch. However,
the profitability of the project fishing boats has, so far been significantly
lower than anticipated owing to the escalating-cost of fuel and many boat
owners have been unable to repay their subloans on time. A PCR is under
preparation.
1.32      Fishery Training Project (Loan 1786-PH).  Financed by a Bank loan
of US$38 million, the project, which became effective in May 1980, is to
support the Government's Integrated Fisheries Development Plan by establishing
a national system of training aimed at strengthening the development of tech-
nology and human resources for the sector.  The system would (a) strengthen
the capability of the University of Philippines College of Fisheries in the
Visayas and seven Regional Institutes of Fisheries Technology in research and
training, and (b) establish seven regional centres for the training of
fishermen to improve their knowledge and skills.  The above institutions are
expected to provide some of the training envisaged under the proposed project.



- 10 -
Other Projects with Components for Fisheries
1.33       Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project (Loan 1894-PH).  This
project signed in August 1980 provides funds to (a) DBP for on-lending to
subborrowers for investments in livestock and fisheries development, and (b)
DBP and other concerned agencies to finance programs and technical assistance
in support of the project. Funds for the fisheries component would finance
fishing boats ranging in size from the small boats (bancas) of municipal
fishermen to vessels of up to 150 GT, fishing gear, development of new fish
ponds and improvements to existing fish ponds, and technical assistance in
support of the component. Implementation of the project is progressing
satisfactorily.
1.34       First, Second, Third and Fourth Rural Credit Projects (Loans
432-PH, 607-PH, 1010-PH and 1399-PlH respectively). These loans included
credit for fishermen and fish pond operators to procure fishing boats and
equipment and for development of fish ponds. The credit funds were channelled
to subborrowers through the rural banks.
1.35       Small Farmer Development Project (Loan 1646-PH).  Although no speci-
fic lending for fisheries is indicated in the project which is being imple-
mented by the Land Bank, subloans for fish pond development are eligible for
reimbursement. A number of such subloans have been financed by the project.
2. FISHERIES AGENCIES OF THE MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES
A. General
2.01       The fisheries agencies of the Ministry of Natural Resources which
are central to fisheries development are the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources, Philippine Fisheries Development Authority and Fishery Industry
Development Council. The legal definition of their roles is contained in
Presidential Decree (PD) 704 of 1975, PD 977 of 1976 as amended and Letter of
Instruction (LOI) 459 of 1976. A memorandum of understanding drawn up by the
three agencies in 1978 further defines their functions. However, these
documents have not delineated sufficiently the respective functions of the
agencies, as a result of which there has been duplication and overlapping of
some of their important programs and activities and consequently, wasteful use
of scarce resources. Other major factors which have hampered the performance
and operations of the agencies are lack of skilled staff, inadequate funding
by the Government, and organizational problems.
B. Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR)
Funct ions
2.02       BFAR has five main functions:
(a) regulation of the capture and culture of fish and fisheries
products through the issuance of licenses for fishing vessels and



- 11 -
enforcement of regulations for proper management and conservation
of the fisheries resources;
(b)  extension and training for greater and more efficient production
and utilization of fisheries products;
(c) research and demonstration activities through operation of fish
hatcheries, nurseries, demonstration farms, experiment stations,
and research vessels;
(d) preparation and implementation of production programs and their
extension support as inputs to the Integrated Fisheries Development
Plan; and
(e) compilation of fisheries statistics.
Organization and Management
2.03      BFAR is headed by a Director, with two Assistant Directors for
research and conservation respectively. It has six administrative and nine
technical divisions. Also attached to the Director's office are the Manage-
ment Information Unit, the Fishermen's Training Center (located in Cavite),
and the Committee on Fishpond Conflicts. There are thirteen regional offices
which are responsible for implementing the field activities, such as exten-
sion, licensing, statistics collection and conservation. Each regional office
reports to the Director and oversees several of the 72 district fisheries
offices at the provincial level which are the smallest units of field opera-
tions. Under the existing system, the Assistant Directors have no line
management responsibilities, and the Director directly supervises all the
division chiefs and directors of the regional offices. Furthermore, there
are no clear lines of contact between regional offices and head office divi-
sions (which generally set guidelines for field operations) except through
the Director. A chart on BFAR's present organizational set-up is given in
Annex 1.
Staffing
2.04      BFAR has staff of about 3,300 employees, some 260 below its
authorized strength. About 28% work at the head office, 70% at the
regional offices, and 2% at the Fishermen's Training Center. Of the total
staff, 38% are classified as permanent technical officers. Over 40% of the
1,005 regional technical officers are assigned to fisheries development and
extension and a further 20% to conservation and law enforcement. About 30%
of the staff have tertiary qualifications, and another 30% have undergone
formal in-service training. Although over 30% of the staff are assigned to
such technical functions as extension, research, and fish farm management,



- 12 -
the lack of support facilities for field work and the large amount of
clerical work (mainly reporting to the head office) mean that far fewer staff
are actually carrying out technical functions. Regional Directors can and
do reassign staff to other than their formal functions. Moreover, most
technical staff are inadequately trained to service the needs of fishermen,
fishpond operators and fish processors.
Operations
2.05      The functions of the technical divisions can be grouped into
three broad areas of research, extension and training, and fisheries
resource management and conservation. Since more than one division works on
each of the three areas and the division chiefs report directly to the
Director, some overlapping of their functions occurs.
2.06      The Research Division conducts marine fish stock assessment and
other oceanographic studies using the 490 gross ton (GT) MV Researcher
(acquired in 1966), monitors water quality in Laguna de Bay, assesses
commercial fishing gear technology, and catalogues fish species of potential
use in aquaculture. The Utilization Division develops new fisheries
products and improvements in quality control. The Technological Services
Division does applied research on fishing gear, boats and sails. The
Propagation Division does some verification of technology in the fish
culture centers operated by the regional offices. The centers consist of 25
freshwater, 20 brackish-water and 14 marine farms. For research on
aquaculture, including yield improvements, heavy reliance is placed on the
work of the Southeast Asia Fisheries Development Center (para. 1.22).
2.07      Research efforts are hampered by a lack of trained staff and
shortage of funds (para. 2.12) for supporting equipment and operating costs,
including maintenance, which is particularly evident in the case of the MV
Researcher and seven other vessels. Several of the seven vessels have
lain inoperable for long periods, and although most have recently returned
to operations, operating funds are still inadequate for all vessels. BFAR
will consider selling or scrapping vessels for which operating funds are
chronically short, since vessels incur crew costs even when idle.
2.08      The Extension Division provides training and extension mainly for
fishpond operators and fish processors, prepares manuals and information
packages, recommends to the Propagation Division field tests for promising
new technology, and assists fishermen in procurement of supplies and
applications for credit. The Fishermen's Training Center, which is operating
well, conducts courses for skippers, master fishermen and engineers for
commercial fishing vessels. The Propagation Division as part of its
demonstration efforts, produces for distribution to fish farmers carp,
tilapia, milkfish and prawn fry and fingerlings, and mussel and oyster spat
at the fish culture centers indicated in para. 2.06. The Engineering



- 13 -
Division is in charge of 16 ice and cold storage plants to demonstrate the
advantages of icing fish.
2.09      Major problems relating to the training and extension efforts
include the following.
(a)  Lack of training facilities for fishermen which, however, is
expected to be remedied by the establishment of seven regional
fishermen's training centers under the Bank-financed Fishery
Training Project (para. 1.32).
(b)  Shortage of trained extension officers, especially for municipal
fisheries. This is reflected by the present high ratio of one
extension officer for about 4,900 municipal fishermen and fish pond
operators. The extension officers have generally been poorly
trained, although the deficiency with regard to pond fisheries will
be alleviated by the training being provided by the FAO/UNDP
Brackish Water Demonstration and Training Centers which can train
125 extension officers a year. The first batch of trainees was
graduated in June 1981. The efforts of the extension officers are
also inhibited by the lack of vehicles and shortage of supporting
equipment and well-formulated extension packages.
(c)  Many of the fish culture centers are either not operating well or
are inoperative. BFAR is undertaking a study to determine which
centers should be closed and which ones rehabilitated or expanded.
(d)  The 16 ice plants have been poorly managed and maintained.  Most
of the plants are in a state of disrepair with only 3 of them
operating. Moreover, many of the plants are improperly sited,
being away from the fish landing sites. Since the idle plants
have imposed a needless burden, BFAR has transferred them to PFDA
which will operate them on a commercial basis.
2.10      Fisheries resource management and conservation efforts are carried
out by the Research, Economics and Information, Licenses, and Conservation and
Enforcement Divisions. Their respective responsibilities are stock
assessment, monitoring of the fish catch, licensing of commercial fishing
vessels (over 3 gross tons) and approving leases of Government-owned land for
use as fishponds, and enforcing regulations aimed at proper fisheries resource
management.
2.11      BFAR's budget for conservation has been inadequate in the face of
growing evidence of resource over-exploitation in some areas. The licensing
function is used as a source of revenue rather than as a tool of resource
management, but is not notably effective even in this role. Instances have



- 14 -
been cited of commercial fishing boats successfully avoiding licensing by
being classed as municipal boats, a misclassification which not only results
in revenue losses, but also enables such vessels to operate in the traditional
fishing grounds of the municipal fishermen (para. 1.07). As in the case of
the extension officers, the 342 enforcement officers of the Conservation and
Enforcement Division have insufficient support to do their job effectively.
The Division has its own vessels for enforcement in only one province. In
other provinces, it has to charter vessels or rely on the Coast Guard and
Philippine Constabulary to catch violators. Since the two agencies accord low
priority to this task, violations such as the use of explosives, poisons,
electricity, small-mesh nets, and commercial boats fishing in municipal waters
are fairly widespread.
Funding
2.12      Many of BFAR-s deficiencies which have been cited are the result of
its inadequate funding by the Government. BFAR-s expenditures in 1978 and its
budgets for 1979 and 1980 are shown in Table 2.1 below. The budgetary
allocations reflect the major and increasing emphasis accorded to the
development of aquaculture and other inland fisheries.
Table 2.1: BFAR BUDGETS (1978-80)
1978                1979                 1980
Amount             Amount               Amount
(P million)    %   (P million)   %    (P million)  %
Aquaculture and other
inland fisheries
development                 16.4    20          29.5      28         50.4       40
Commercial fisheries
development                  9.0    11           8.1       8         10.5        8
Municipal fisheries
development                 10.8    13          11.2      11         14.3       11
Utilization                  15.8    19           18.7     18         16.1       13
Law enforcement and
conservation                 8.7    10          11.2      11          8.1        7
General administration       22.1    27           25.8     25         25.1       20
Total                    82.8   100         104.5    100         124.5     100
Note: Percentages do not add up to 100 due to rounding.



- 15 -
2.13      Although BFAR had proposed a budget of P 124.5 million for 1980
the approved sum amounted to P 119.2 million owing to the overall budget-
ing constraints faced by the Government. The 1981 appropriation was even
less at P 107.8 million. BFAR's budgetary constraints would be eased
somewhat if the gross revenues from its income earning facilities (such as
fish culture centers) could be used for their proper operation and mainte-
nance. As it is BFAR is required to remit the revenues to the Treasury.
Priority Needs In The 1980s
2.14       In marine fisheries, the rapid expansion in the number of motorized
municipal fishing boats and improvements in fishing gear have increased the
catch significantly. The increase has, however, been unevenly distributed in
that some fishing grounds are overfished while others have barely been
tapped. Production in the overfished areas will decline in the future.
Thus, the total catch cannot be held at a maximum sustainable level unless
(a) the fisheries resources and their growth rates are assessed and
monitored, and (b) regulations to manage the exploitation of these resources
are well formulated and strictly enforced.
2.15       In aquaculture (including mariculture), the potential for
expanding production is substantial (para. 1.05). To help achieve this,
BFAR would need to (a) undertake surveys to identify suitable aquaculture
sites, and (b) provide an effective technical and extension support to pond
operators to increase their fish yields.
2.16       In the training of fishermen, fishpond operators and BFAR's exten-
sion and other technical staff, the needed expansion in local training would
be met by the various training centers cited earlier (paras. 2.08-2.09).
Overseas training is also required for some of BFAR's technical staff to
enable them to operate proficiently.
2.17       In fish handling and processing significant improvements would
need to be made in reducing losses and improving the quality of processing.
Especially at the village and town market level, BFAR can play an effective
role in developing and demonstrating appropriate fish handling and process-
ing techniques. Its Utilization Division has been quite successful at this
in the past, but needs more support in the 1980s.
C. Philippine Fisheries Development Authority (PFDA)
2.18       Inadequate and inefficient landing, marketing and communication
facilities characterize the movement and marketing of the fish catch and
are reflected in (a) its high losses, erratic price fluctuations, generally
poor quality, and lower prices to fishermen and higher prices to consumers
than necessary; and (b) the fact that some areas have surplus fish while
certain others are in short supply.  PFDA has been established to assist
in dealing with these issues.



- 16 -
Functions
2.19      PFDA-s major functions are to:
(a)  establish and operate fishing ports and fish markets and other
marketing facilities, such as ice plants and cold storage;
(b)  improve the handling, preservation, marketing and distribution of
fish;
(c)  provide market information, advisory and promotional services to
the fishing industry; and
(d)  establish subsidiary operating corporations for area fisheries
development.
PFDA seeks the maximum participation of the private sector in all these tasks,
and undertakes business ventures on its own only when the private sector shows
no interest in them.
organization and Management
2.20      PFDA is a corporate body with a Board of Directors chaired by the
Minister of Natural Resources. The other Board members are the Administrator
of the National Food Authority, the Minister of Public Works and Highways
Minister of Trade, Minister of Agriculture, and two representatives from the
private sector. A General Manager executes Board policies and controls the
day-to-day operations of the agency. He is assisted by an Assistant General
Manager. PFDA is divided into three main departments (operations, financial
management, and planning and development) and four supporting service
divisions (general administration, legal affairs, public relations and
management system development). Directly under the General Manager are the
Auditor's Office and the Navotas Fishing Port and Fish Market (para. 2.23).
Staffing
2.21      PFDA has a total staff of 305, of whom 28% are permanent, 8% tempo-
rary and 64% casual employees. In the professional grades, about 50% are
graduates, 45% undergraduates, and 5% vocationally trained. Of the graduates,
about 75% hold business administration, liberal arts or education degrees,
while the rest have degrees in fisheries sciences or engineering.
2.22      None of the staff has academic training or adequate experience in
fish port planning, port operations, fish handling or marketing, although this
is partly counterbalanced by energetic and resourceful management by an
enthusiastic young staff. Because salaries for professional staff are legally
limited to Government levels which are substantially below corresponding
private sector salaries, PFDA is unable to hire mature and well-qualified
staff and accordingly has had to rely on its training program to develop
young graduates into competent professionals. However, due to budgetary
constraints the program has so far included only local training for short



- 17 -
periods on management, human resources development, and fish identification
and foreign training of short duration for three staff members in fish
processing and marketing, fisheries manpower training and public enterprise
policy.
Operations
2.23      PFDA's major operation is the Navotas Fishing Port and Fish Market,
a 67 ha complex on the northern seafront of Metro Manila. Navotas, the
construction of which began in 1971 with an Asian Development Bank (ADB) loan,
commenced operations under PFDA's management in January 1977. Navotas
regulates the entry of fishing boats, including fish carrier vessels into the
port, their docking, unloading, and berthing.  It also checks the volume of
fish unloaded to determine the fees to be charged for this activity, provides
auction halls and brokers offices, maintains security, monitors prices and
total landings, and operates the port and market facilities.
2.24       About 80% of the fish consumed in Metro Manila passes through
Navotas. The port handles about 16-18 boats a day excluding bancas. Daily
fish landings range from 200 tons in lean months (December to February) up to
800 tons in peak months (March to June). Total landings in 1979 amounted to
155,000 tons or 89% of the port's designed capacity. Port revenues exceeded
the repayments on the ADB loan for the first time in 1979. The revenues net
of debt amortization are expected to be significantly higher following the
completion of an ice plant, cold storage and fuel depot in the near future.
2.25       In addition to the shortage of qualified staff (para. 2.22), other
major problems facing Navotas include the following:
(a) 1,500 GT trawlers now call at Navotas although it is designed to
handle ships of only up to 500 GT. Increasing traffic of the
larger vessels would require dredging the port;
(b) with the continuing increase in the number of vessels more
berthing space would be needed to avoid queues;
(c) the physical infrastructure, especially the breakwater, parking
area, jetties and dockfenders have not been properly maintained
and funds for this purpose have been inadequate; and
(d) utilities, including the electrical, drainage and water supply
systems and road network are overloaded, so that brownouts,
flooding and traffic congestion are fairly frequent.
2.26       PFDATs other operations consist of the following:
(a) a fish market news service and fish price monitoring system which
gathers, and disseminates to the public, statistics on fish landings
by species and quantity, and wholesale and retail prices in Navotas
and five other major fish landing and marketing centers.



- 18 -
(b) an economic and market research service aimed primarily at
determining improvements in the fish marketing system.
Funding
2.27      PFDA has the potential to operate at a surplus because of the earn-
ing capacity of Navotas. However, this is not likely to take place because
PFDA is required to remit all its earnings to the Government. Although it can
apply to the Ministry of the Budget for release of the earnings (e.g. for
improvements or maintenance of Navotas), this process is slow and has not
always been successful. Similarly, by law PFDA can borrow money and issue
bonds, but only on approval of the Minister of Finance and the President of
the Republic. The income statements of PFDA for 1978, 1979 and the first half
of 1980 are shown in Table 2.2 below.



- 19 -
Table 2.2: PFDA INCOME STATEMENTS
(P '000)
1980
1978          1979       (Ist half)
Income
Operating and service income                3,690         4,901         3,211
Contribution from the Government            8,920         8,800             -/a
Subtotal                             12,610         13,701         3,211
Expenses
Personnel                                   2,111         3,221         1,560
Other services /b                           2,469         2,365         1,130
Supplies and materials                      2,930         1,440           731
Other /c                                      195           750           925
Subtotal                              7,705          7,776         4,346
Net income                                    4,905         5,925          n.a./a
Less:  Government contribution                8,920         8,800          n.a.7a
Net income (loss) excluding
Government contribution                    (4,015)       (2,875)       (1,135)
/a  In 1980, PFDA switched its accounting system based on the Government-s
accounting rules to that used by commercial enterprises, and did not
list the Government's contribution as an income source.
/b Includes travel, communication, transportation and other services.
/c  Includes water and power, motor vehicle maintenance, rent and grants-
subsidies-contributions for 1979. Additional items such as deprecia-
tion, extraordinary expenses, representation and books were included in
the amount for 1980.
2.28      The "other expense" category for 1980 (first half) is affected by
changes in accounting procedures and therefore is not comparable to those
for the preceding two years. However, even including large new items such
as depreciation in the 1980 expenses and based on the assumption that the
expenditures and operating income for the second half of 1980 are the same
as for the first half, expenses for 1980 would increase by 12% over 1979 and
13% over 1978, while the corresponding operating incomes would increase by
31% and 74% respectively.



- 20 -
Development Programs in the 1980s
2.29      The major growth of PFDA's activities in the 1980s is expected to
come from infrastructure development and marketing assistance. Infrastruc-
ture development would include:
(a)  expansion of Navotas from the present landing piers and market
halls into an integrated fisheries industrial and commercial
complex, with ice and cold storage plant, petroleum bunkering,
dry-docking and repair facilities, fish processing plants, banks,
restaurants, and expanded utilities. Some of these facilities
would be leased to private operators;
(b)  construction and management of five regional commercial fishing
ports funded by a US$46.3 million loan from the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan to be completed in 1983. These ports
will be in Sual, Camaligan, Lucena, Iloilo and Zamboanga;
(c)  construction and management of an additional five regional fishing
ports in Bacolod, Cebu, Tacloban, Cagayan de Oro and Davao.
Pre-feasibility studies are now underway with the assistance of
the Ministry of Public Works and construction is expected to be
completed by 1988;
(d)  construction or improvement of 54 municipal fishing ports by 1983,
and a further 50 thereafter. The ports would handle less than 6
tons of fish landed per day, and would be located in areas (many
designated as depressed areas) where fish spoilage and marketing
losses are reported to be high; and
(e)  the US$24 million Northern Palawan Fisheries Development Project
financed by an ADB loan of US$18 million. The project which is
expected to begin operations in 1983 will provide landing and
marketing facilities, ice and cold storage plants, fishing and
fish carrier vessels, and credit assistance to fishermen.
2.30      Marketing assistance would be provided through the expansion of
several activities comprising:
(a)  operation and expansion of the chain of ice plants recently
obtained from BFAR;
(b)  additional communication links and the systematic use of marine and
inland transport facilities, which would link all fish collection
and distribution points and allow fish to be transported quickly
from surplus to deficit areas;



- 21 -
(c) expansion of the fish market news service and price monitoring
system (para. 2.26(a)) to cover all the regional fishing ports and
other major fishing areas; and
(d) technical assistance for the formation of fishermen-s and fish
retailers cooperatives.
D. Fishery Industry Development Council (FIDC)
Functions
2.31      Created in 1975 FIDC's major functions are:
(a) formulation and coordination of fisheries policies, including
review of policy-related proposals from implementing agencies,
such as BFAR and PFDA;
(b) interagency planning for fisheries development at the national and
project level, including setting development priorities, prepara-
tion and updating of the Integrated Fisheries Development Plan, and
monitoring and evaluation of projects and programs;
(c) promotion of investments in the fisheries industry; and
(d) coordination of private sector and Government efforts for fisheries
development which includes obtaining feedback from the fisheries
industry on policy issues and explaining to the industry the
reasons for Government actions.
Organization and Management
2.32      FIDC is composed of a Council served by a Technical Board and a
Secretariat. The 12-member Council comprises the Ministers of Natural
Resources, Agriculture, National Defense, Trade, and Public Works, Governor
of the Central Bank, Chairmen of DBP and the Board of Investment, President
of the Philippine National Bank, Director of BFAR, and representatives from
the Inland Fisheries Association (1) and the Marine Fisheries Association (1).
2.33      The Technical Board, composed of representatives of the Council
members and other agencies and chaired by the Assistant Minister of MNR in
charge of fisheries, reviews the studies and recommendations prepared by
FIDC staff and serves as a forum for discussion of policy issues, programs
and projects. Its members group themselves into working committees on
various subjects such as investment, credit, joint ventures and resource
assessment. Only representatives of MNR and BFAR serve on all the
committees which report to the Council their findings and recommendations on
specific issues.



- 22 -
2.34       The Secretariat is managed by an Executive Director and Deputy
Director. It has three technical sections for program development and review,
investment promotions, and planning and policy, and an administrative staff
for support functions such as finance, data monitoring, publication, and
equipment operation and maintenance.
Staffing
2.35       FIDC has a total staff of 70 of whom 30 are in technical positions.
Most of the technical staff are young with little or no working experience
prior to joining FIDC. All the technical staff have bachelor's or master's
degrees of which 17 are in natural sciences, mostly fisheries-related, and six
in economics. Although pay scales are higher in FIDC than in BFAR and PFDA
because of its status as a special council rather than a line agency, they are
not high enough to enable FIDC to compete with private sector salaries.
Operations in the 1980s
2.36       FIDC's planning function has been and is likely to remain of para-
mount importance. Its coordination function, while of lesser importance, will
continue as in the past. The major changes will come in the evaluation of
projects and programs and in policy research.
2.37       The late 1970s brought several new projects under implementation,
and the early 1980s will add still more. FIDC will accordingly need to
monitor and evaluate the projects to ensure that they are well managed, and
that the distribution of their benefits would accrue to the various groups of
particpants as envisaged.  In view of the fact that the fisheries resources
are increasingly exploited to their sustainable limits and that some of the
traditional fishing grounds are being overfished, a major focus of FIDC's
policy research function should include studies to (a) determine appropriate
measures for proper resource conservation and management, and (b) develop a
strategy for optimal resource exploitation, including policy measures aimed at
encouraging fishing in deeper waters, preventing overfishing, and ensuring
that resources are equitably shared by both municipal fishermen and commercial
operators.
Major Constraints
2.38       FIDC's operations are hampered by inadequate funding and shortage
of expertise. Like the other two fisheries agencies, FIDC cannot attract
experienced professionals from the private sector because of its lower
salaries. It would therefore need to upgrade the expertise of its staff to
enable it to carry out its designated functions fully and effectively. The
upgrading required is in resource management, fish processing technology,
marine fisheries, aquaculture, economics, and other technical disciplines



- 23 -
necessary for planning, policy research and formulation and project
evaluation.  In addition, FIDC needs funds to bring in consultants when
required to help deal with specific issues and problems, and for equipment to
support the performance of the staff which has been lacking.
E. Proposed Reorganization
2.39      The Ministry of Natural Resources is currently evaluating organi-
zational changes within BFAR, PFDA and FIDC in order to improve the perfor-
mance of the agencies and to integrate more effectively their operations. The
recommendations would, as part of the proposed project, be submitted to the
Government's reorganization panel by December 31, 1982.
BFAR
2.40      The nine technical divisions would be reduced and reorganized along
clear functional lines. They would be grouped into three categories for
research, extension and training, and resource management and conservation.
Each would be supervised by an Assistant Director and more responsibility
would be delegated to the field. Coordination of activities between the
divisions and the regional field offices would also be improved. An organi-
zation chart indicating proposed changes is given in Annex 2.
PFDA
2.41      The organizational changes proposed for PFDA in response to the
anticipated expansion of its future operations are designed to facilitate its
major functions in fishing port management, coordination of municipal and
regional ports in fish marketing, management of ice plants, market information
monitoring, transport of fish, research, and personnel development. The major
organizational change is the proposed establishment of five operating units
comprising a transportation department in charge of fish transport vehicles, a
Metro Manila Fish Terminal handling operations at Navotas, and three regional
departments to supervise the operations of the regional and municipal ports in
Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao. Subsidiary corporations would be established to
operate area development projects and other similar projects with private
sector participation. PFDA's present and proposed organizations are given in
Annexes 3 and 4.



- 24 -
FIDC
2.42      Because FIDC-s staff is small its form of organization is not of
major importance. Certain changes would streamline its functioning. First,
many of the Council's members are heads of ministries and other agencies
with only a peripheral interest in the industry, so that it is difficult to
convene the Council frequently. The Council would therefore be reconstituted
to include only representatives of of agencies and interests having primary
concern with the industry.  Second, this change would allow the Technical
Board to be abolished.  The ad hoc committees and working groups would
continue to function as in the past.  Third, the Secretariat would be
organized into four main divisions to address FIDC's major responsibilities
(para. 2.31).
3. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The project would (a) assist municipal (small-scale) fishermen in a
specific geographic area in increasing their incomes through the establish-
ment of facilities for the efficient collection, transport and marketing of
fish, and provision of input supplies; and (b) strengthen the operations of
BFAR, PFDA, and FIDC. The project is designed to provide the Government
with an effective approach in increasing the incomes of small-scale
fishermen, and the institutional strengthening of its three fisheries
agencies is expected to assist the Government to cope effectively with the
major challenges facing fisheries development in the 1980s. Other
objectives of the project include reducing the current fish marketing losses
and providing consumers with increased supplies and better quality fish.
B. Description
3.02      The project would consist of the following components:
(a)  an area development subproject comprising the construction of
landing places, ice plants, ice and chill storage, carrier boats,
marketing and other supporting on-shore facilities in seven sites
serving the adjacent Masbate/Ticao and Western Samar regions, and
provision of input supplies to fishermen. The regions are
depressed areas and their development is accorded high priority
by the Government. The seven sites are Bulan, San Jacinto, Miaga,
Cataingan and Placer in the Masbate/Ticao area with some 25,000
fishermen, and Catbalogan and Santo Nino in Western Samar with
10,000-12,000 fishermen (see attached Map IBRD 15435); and



- 25 -
(b) institutional strengthening of BFAR, PFDA, and FIDC involving
upgrading the skills and capability of the technical and
other professional staff through the provision of training,
equipment and technical assistance.
(c) funds in the area development subproject for incremental working
capital and in the institutional strengthening component for
operating and maintenance costs of the equipment and facilities
during the project period, and studies to assist fisheries
development.
3.03      A corporation to implement the area development component has been
formed and a Project Unit will be established to implement and operate the
area development subproject and assume responsibility for the implementation
of the institutional strengthening component (paras. 4.02 and 4.14).
C. Detailed Features
Area Development Subproject
3.04      A brief description of the features of the subproject area is
given in Annex 5. Investments at the seven subproject sites would include:
(a) a reclaimed area to accommodate the on-shore facilities;
(b) a landing place of which the prevalent form in the Philippines is
concrete stairs so situated that shallow draft fishing boats can
approach them at all times;
(c) a landing place for the carrier boats with a water depth of two
meters below low water, except in Cataingan, Catbalogan, and San
Jacinto where existing facilities can be used. In the other sites
jetties must be provided. These will be typically a jetty head
supported on concrete or steel piles connected to the reclaimed
area by an access partly on piles and partly constructed as a
causeway. Owing to excessive wave attack, a breakwater
will be provided at Placer to enable the safe berthing of the
carrier boats;
(d) an ice plant, ice store, and chill room, except at Catbalogan
where BFAR has built an ice plant and cold storage complex
which would be adequate for the subproject in that area. The
complex is suitably located and would be transferred to the
project. San Jacinto will not require an ice plant because of
the short distance from Bulan and the relatively small volume
of fish to be handled. Its ice requirements would be supplied
by the carrier boats from Bulan;



- 26 -
(e)  an office, sheds for receiving and icing fish, toilets, stores,
staff housing units and ancillary buildings;
(f)  utilities - water, electricity, including generators with standby
capacity, radio communications and drainage (septic tanks would
be provided for sewerage, and oily water separators for the areas
around the fuel handling and storage facilities);
(g)  fuel storage areas.  Generally gasoline and diesel in bulk would
be stored in underground tanks and supplied in bulk by the
Philippine National Oil Company. In the island sites of San
Jacinto and Santo Nino fuel storage compounds only would be
provided and a limited supply of fuel in drums or cans will be
stored there. Fuel for San Jacinto and Santo Nino, to be stored
in bulk at Bulan and Catbalogan respectively, would be taken
over to the island sites on the carrier boats when needed. Fuel
supplies would be piped to motor generators supplying
electricity for the ice plant and other facilities and to the
carrier boats at Bulan. Supplies to the municipal fishermen and
other users would be disbursed into cans; and
(h) insulated boxes and manual trolleys for fish handling, office
furniture and miscellaneous tools and equipment.
At full development the project would include: twelve carrier boats to
transport fuel, ice, and other input supplies for fishermen from Bulan to the
other sites and to ferry fish from these sites to Bulan and Catbalogan; seven
1/2-ton pick up trucks for use of staff at each site; and five insulated
trucks to transport fish to market.
3.05       Other facilities required are auction halls, offices for fish
dealers/buyers, and related items for Bulan anld Catbalogan where the fish
would be auctioned. As the main center of operations, Bulan would also be
provided with a slipway and workshop for the repair and maintenance of the
carrier boats. The specific facilities and their dimensions and layout plans
for each of the seven sites based on the availability of fish to be handled
are given in Annex 6 and Maps IBRD 15436 through 15444.
3.06       In addition, the subproject would include:
(a)  funds to meet administrative costs incurred during construction of
the facilities;



- 27 -
(b)  incremental working capital covering three months of operating
costs and one month's purchase of fish; and
(c) input supplies for fishermen, comprising mainly motorized bancas
or traditional fishing boats with engines (para. 1.11), replace-
ment engines and hulls, spare parts, fishing gear, sails and
rigging, fuel, ice and lamps.
Institutional Strengthening
3.07      Through the provision of training, supporting equipment and
facilities, and consultant services, this component would enable (a) BFAR to
undertake proper stock assessment and management of fisheries resources,
provide extension support to fish pond operators, and improve the handling
and processing of fish; (b) PFDA to operate and manage its fishing ports and
fish market facilities; and (c) FIDC to improve its performance relating to
national policy formulation, project preparation and monitoring and
evaluation of project proposals. Specific items to be financed under the
component, details of which are given in Annex 6, are indicated in the
paragraphs below.
3.08      The items for BFAR would comprise:
(a) replacement of BFAR's existing research vessel with one of
about 200 GT;
(b) contracting for surveys and assessment of pelagic fish stocks;
(c) a 10 GT research vessel equipped for reef fishing to undertake
continuous monitoring of reef fisheries' resources;
(d) twelve 7 m patrol boats with 25 HP motors and 72 bancas with
16-20 HP engines (para. 1.11) to assist in preventing widespread
violations of fishing regulations; 400 motorcycles (100 cc), 12
four-wheel drive vehicles, and 125 sets of field extension
equipment for analysis of soil and water samples to strengthen the
extension support for pond fisheries; 7 SSB transmitter/receiver
sets to improve communication between the regional offices and
main office in Manila; 4 sets of survey equipment for surveying
potential areas for fish pond development; 2 cars and a
duplicating machine for the main office; and desk calculators to
facilitate the computation of fisheries statistics. The patrol
boats, fourwheel drive vehicles, SSB transmitters/receivers,
survey equipment and desk calculators would be provided to the
regional offices, and the motorcycles, motorized bancas, and field
extension equipment to the provincial offices. BFAR would provide



- 28 -
the motorcycles to its field officers on hire-purchase arrange-
ments with the amortization payments to be withdrawn from their
monthly salaries and travel allowances;
(e) equipment for the existing fish processing laboratory for research
to improve fish handling and processing; and
(f) overseas training of staff on fisheries resources assessment and
management, fish processing technology, including quality control
and product development, fishing boat and gear technology, ocean-
ography, and related fields. A total of 168 months of training
would be provided at an estimated cost of US$204,400 or an average
cost of US$14,600 per year, which includes travel, tuition/fees,
subsistence, and minor items. The training would range from 6-24
months with the latter leading to a masters degree or equivalent
level.
3.09      The items for PFDA would consist of:
(a) consultant services of an internationally recruited port
engineer/planner (36 months) and a fishing port operations
specialist (24 months) costing about US$627,000 or US$10,500
per month which includes the individuals fees, international
travel, and local allowances. The specialists would be given
operational responsibilities and would train PFDA staff for their
eventual take-over of the responsibilities. The terms of
reference of the specialists to be drawn up by PFDA would be
subject to the Bank's approval;
(b)  foreign and local training of staff.  Foreign training costing
about US$355,000 would comprise 22 fellowships of one-year duration,
11 in port engineering and maintenance and the other 11 in port and
market operations, and five three-month study fellowships for senior
management and operations staff to broaden and deepen their profes-
sional competence. Local training consisting of short-term
academic and practical courses for middle level technical and
other professional staff would be provided mainly through the
Asian Institute of Management, the Development Academy of the
Philippines and the University of Philippines College of
Fisheries. A sum of US$200,000 would be provided for this
purpose; and
(c) boats, vehicles and equipment, comprising (i) a 7 m boat with 25 HP
engine, 1-1/2 ton mobile crane, 1/2 ton pickup truck, tractor with
scoop loader, canpressor for power tools, cash registers, walkie
talkies, desk calculators, and miscellaneous tools; (ii) ten 7 m
boats with 25 HP engines, 10 jeeps, 20 walkies-talkies and 7 SSB
radio/transmitter sets for the 10 regional fishing ports to be
established; and (iii) two cars, three trucks and office
equipment for PFDA-s main office.



29 -
3.10      The items for FIDC would comprise:
(a)  foreign and local training of staff to acquire expertise which
FIDC lacks. The training would comprise three foreign training
fellowships in fisheries management (12 months), resource
economics (12 months), and fisheries industries development
(24 months), and 10 fellowships totalling 240 months for local
training;
(b)  consultant services consisting of a marine fisheries management
specialist (24 months), a marine biologist (12 months), a
resource economist (12 months), a fisheries industries specia-
list (12 months), a sociologist (12 months), and a financial
analyst (24 months). Funds would be provided to cover (a)
60 months of internationally recruited consultant time at about
U$10,500 a month which includes the individuals- fees, inter-
national travel and local allowances, and (b) 36 months of
local consultancy costing about P 20,300 a month; and
(c)  vehicles and equipment comprising three cars, two 4-wheel drive
pick ups, and office supplies.
3.11      In addition, the project would, over the period of its implementa-
tion, provide fuel and repair costs for the vehicles, boats, and equipment
under the institutional strengthening component (about 36% of the component)
to ensure their proper use and maintenance. Inadequate funding for this
purpose by the Government has been a major problem for BFAR, PFDA and FIDC.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the Government would
provide adequate funds for the proper use and maintenance of the facilities.
A sum of US$500,000 would also be provided by the project (a) to develop
designs of more efficient small fishing boats and determine the technical and
financial feasibility of mussel farming; (b) to assess the export market
prospects for dried fish; and (c) other studies within the jurisdiction of
MNR.
D. Cost Estimates
3.12      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$36.6 million of
which $16.5 million or 45% would be the foreign exchange costs. Included in
project costs are certain withholding taxes on civil works contracts and
refrigeration equipment amounting to about $350,000 (net of tax cost is
$36.2 million). A summary of the cost estimates, detailed in Annex 6,
Tables 1-4, is shown in Table 3.1 below.



- 30 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Foreign
--- (P million) ---   -- (US$ million) --    (%)
A. Area Development
Site preparation            21.7    8.4   30.1       2.7    1.0    3.7        27
Buildings                   15.5    7.1   22.6       1.9    0.9    2.8        32
Machinery & equipment        6.0    8.9   14.9       0.7    1.1    1.8        61
Carrier vessels/
fish boxes                 3.9    5.5    9.4       0.5    0.7    1.2        58
Engineering design
& supervision             6.2    0.2    6.4        0.8    *        0.8       4
Administration               4.3    0.7    5.0       0.5    0.1    0.6        14
Working capital              6.2    1.0    7.2       0.8    0.1    0.9        11
Supplies to fishermen        3.9    5.6    9.5       0.5    0.7    1.2        58
Base cost estimate    67.7   37.4  105.1          8.4    4.6   13.0        35
B. Institutional Strengthening
BFAR                        13.0   30.6   43.6       1.6    3.8    5.4        70
PFDA                         4.1   11.7   15.8       0.5    1.4    1.9        74
FIDC                         2.2    5.9    8.1       0.3    0.7    1.0        73
Studies by MNR               4.0    -       4.0      0.5    -        0.5       -
Base cost estimate    23.3   48.2   71.5          2.9    5.9    8.8        67
C. Total Project
Base cost estimate    91.0   85.6  176.6    11.3   10.5   21.8            48
Physical contingency         6.1    4.5   10.6       0.8    0.6    1.4
Expected price
increases                64.8   43.9  108.7        8.0    5.4   13.4
Total Project Costs  161.9  134.0  295.9    20.1   16.5   36.6             45
D. Front-End Fee
-       3.2    3.2      -       0.4    0.4    100
Total Financing        161.9  137.2  299.1    20.1   16.9   37.0           46
* Less than $0.1 million
Subtotals rounded.



- 31 -
The cost estimates are based on prices updated to December 1981 to which is
added a physical contingency of 12% for civil works, materials and
equipment. The total project cost also includes a price contingency of 57%
of total base cost plus physical contingencies based on the expected price
increases shown in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2: EXPECTED % ANNUAL PRICE INCREASES
1982      1983      1984     1985      1986    1987
Local costs                10.0       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0    8.0
Foreign costs               8.0       8.0       7.5       7.0       6.0    6.0
E. Financing
3.13       Of the total project cost of US$36.6 million, the Bank would finance
$22.0 million (about 60%), Government $14.3 million, the private sector
participants in the equity of the corporation to implement the area develop-
ment component $0.2 million, and subborrowers for fishing supplies $0.1 mil-
lion. The Bank's funding would be equivalent to the foreign exchange costs
plus $5.5 million of local costs. Financing of the two components of the
project is summarized in Table 3.3 below.
F. Implementation Schedule
3.14       The project would be implemented over an eight-year period
commencing in 1982. An implementation schedule for the establishment of
facilities in the seven sites under the area development component is shown in
Annex 7, Chart 22275. The schedule indicates that the sites at Bulan and
Placer are planned to be operational about 3-1/2 years after project
effectiveness, Miaga, Cataingan and Catbalogan five years, and San Jacinto and
Santo Nino seven years.



- 32 -
Table 3.3: PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING PLAN BY COMPONENT
(US$ million)
Source of finance
Government  Private    Sub-
Component                 Bank        PFDA       firm    borrowers   Total
A. Area development
Civil works              3.25        3.25       -          -          6.50
Machinery &
equipment              1.10        0.70       -          -          1.80
Carrier vessels          1.20        -          -          -          1.20
Engineering design       0.80        -          -          -          0.80
Administration           -           0.40       0.20       -          0.60
Working capital          -           0.90       -          -          0.90
Supplies to fishermen  0.70          0.40       -          0.10       1.20
Subtotal           7.05         5.65       0.20       0.10      13.00
B. Institutional
Strengthening
BFAR                     3.60        1.80       -          -          5.40
PFMA                     1.50        0.40       -          -          1.90
FIDC                     0.70        0.30       -          -          1.00
MNR                      0.50        -          -          -          0.50
Subtotal           6.30         2.50       -          -          8.80
Contingencies                   8.65        6.15       -          -          14.80
Front-End Fee                   0.40        -          -          -           0.40
Total             22.40        14.30       0.20       0.10       37.00



- 33 -
G. Procurement
Area Development
3.15      Establishment of landing facilities, ice plants, ice storage, chill
rooms, slipway and repair shop, buildings, other structures and development of
the sites would be carried out under a single contract with a prequalified
contractor and in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Sub-contracting of the civil works at the various
sites to enable the participation of small local contractors would be allowed.
The single contract arrangement is most appropriate because it would be
essential that one contractor take overall responsibility to synchronize
installation of the equipment and civil works. For locally manufactured
goods, a preference margin limited to 15% of the import price (c.i.f.) of such
goods, or their prevailing custom duty, whichever is lower, may be applied in
the evaluation of bids. The engineering firm to prepare detailed designs,
specifications, and tender documents for all the facilities and assist in
evaluating bids would be selected from prequalified firms acceptable to the
Bank. The contracts for the on-shore facilities and engineering firm would
require the Bank's prior approval.
3.16      The wooden-hull carrier boats (12) costing about $1.2 million would
be procured from prequalified local shipyards through local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures. There are many local shipyards which are competent
to build the carrier boats and foreign suppliers are unlikely to bid. Local
firms have been building boats of similar design and construction for use in
transporting interisland freight. Owing to the small size of bid packages LCB
would likewise be applied to the procurement of the 5 insulated trucks
($0.28 million), fishing boat hulls ($0.4 million) and engines ($0.5 million),
and 7 pickup trucks ($0.07 million). Procurement of the sails ($0.15 mil-
lion), communications equipment ($0.08 million), spare parts for fishing boat
engines, fishing gear, lamps, and other minor equipment items, comprising
mainly small tools and office furniture, would be through local shopping
using the three bid method.
Institutional Strengthening
3.17      The Project Unit established within MNR to implement this component
(para. 4.14) would procure all the items financed under the component.
Replacement of the marine research vessel ($0.9 million, excluding scientific
equipment) will likely involve purchase and appropriate conversion of a used
fishing or research ship under ICB. Such ships are currently in surplus
globally and buying one currently laid up is cost effective. Prior to pur-
chase, the vessel would be inspected by a qualified marine surveyor who would
prepare a list of works to be done to prepare the vessel for its assigned
research program. All the scientific equipment required for research and
extension would be grouped under a single lot ($0.8 million) and procured
through ICB. ICB would also be applied to the 25 4-wheel drive vehicles,
seven cars, 400 motorcycles, three insulated trucks, mobile crane, and tractor



- 34 -
with scoop loader which would be procured as a group. A preference margin
limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or prevailing custom
duty, whichever is lower, may be applied to locally manufactured goods.
3.18      Hulls and engines for the bancas (72) and other vessels (19) would
be procured separately. Construction of hulls ($0.2 million) would be awarded
to prequalified local shipyards based on LCB. To ensure timely procurement it
is anticipated that the construction of the hulls would be awarded to three or
more builders. The engines (US$0.2 million) would likewise be procured
through LCB. Prudent shopping would be used to procure the communications
equipment ($0.08 million) and other minor equipment items consisting mainly of
miscellaneous tools, spare parts and office equipment.
3.19      Suitable candidates for training would be solicited through
announcements issued at appropriate times within BFAR, PFDA and FIDC. The
candidates to be trained would be selected by the Project Unit (PU) which
would coordinate and approve the training needs of the three fisheries
agencies. The training programs and candidates for training from the agencies
would be submitted to the Bank for approval. In consultation with the
agencies concerned, the PU would recruit the consultants whose terms of
reference, qualifications, and terms and conditions of employment, would be
subject to the Bank's approval. The terms of reference would, inter alia,
require that the consultants assist in the training of the staff of the
fisheries agencies and to identify their training needs.
3.20      Land for fish landing facilities and ancillary structures has been
leased by PFDA under a 50-year renewable contract. Feasibility grade designs,
layouts and drawings have been prepared for all seven sites. Construction
quantities have been estimated for all structures, and all hydrographic work
done.
H. Disbursements
3.21      Disbursements of the proposed Bank loan of US$22.4 million
(Annex 11) are expected to conform to the profile for fisheries and to extend
over 1982-89 as follows:
CY           US$ million
1982              0.6
1983              1.3
1984              3.7
1985              4.9
1986              4.5
1987              3.5
1988              3.1
1989              0.8
Total          22.4



- 35 -
Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation. Disbursements
for the area development component would be 50% of expenditures for civil
works except for the ice plant at Catbalogan, which would be financed by
Government; 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
vehicles and materials, 100% of local expenditures, ex-factory, for locally
manufactured items, and 65% of local expenditures for locally procured items;
and 100% of expenditures for consultants for engineering design and
supervision. For the institutional strengthening component, the disbursement
rates are 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported vehicles and
equipment, 100% of local expenditures, ex-factory, for locally manufactured
items, and 65% of local expenditures for locally procured items; 100% of
expenditures for studies and consultant services; 100% of foreign expenditures
for foreign training; and 60% of expenditures for local training.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
A. Area Development Subproject
4.01      Integrating the provision of adequate input supplies to increase the
efficiency and volume of fish production with facilities for the efficient
marketing of the fish catch, including wider access to distant urban markets,
would be an effective approach to raise significantly the incomes of municipal
fishermen in the subproject area. The subproject is designed to accomplish
this.
Proposed Organization
4.02      PFDA has established a subsidiary corporation to operate the
subproject. The powers and functions vested in PFDA enable it to create such
a corporation. The managing agent of the subsidiary corporation has purchased
an equity share in it amounting to P 312,500, with an option to purchase up
to 40%.
4.03      The corporation has a board of directors composed of representatives
nominated by Government and the private managing agent. Policies established
by the board would ensure that the economic and social objectives of the
subproject are met, while ensuring the financial viability of the corporation.
The firm's general manager attended negotiations. Upon their appointment,
two deputy managers would assume responsibility for the day-to-day management
of the corporation and its implementation of the subproject. The continuity
of management, through the various phases of implementation and operation of
the facilities, is important for the success of the subproject. It would
ensure that the views of those operating the subproject would be fully
reflected in the design, construction and procurement of the facilities and



- 36 -
equipment for their sound commercial operation. As an initial task, the
deputy manager in charge of finance would prepare efficient systems of
internal control, accounting, management information and internal audit.
4.04      The corporation would establish a temporary office at PFDA's head-
quarters for the implementation of the subproject during its initial phase,
the major tasks of which would include recruiting staff as required and
selecting the engineering firm to prepare detailed designs, specifications and
tender documents for the facilities and equipment to be procured (para.
3.15). The firm would also assist in evaluating bids submitted in connection
with the above.
4.05      Prior to the commencement of construction, the corporation's office
would be shifted to Bulan which would be its main operational center. During
the pre-operational phase, the corporation would publicize its proposed
activities to be undertaken in the subproject area, recruit staff for the
various positions as required, and with the cooperation of the local fisheries
offices select municipal fishermen for participation in the subproject. A
proposed organization chart for the corporation is given in Annex 8.
Financing Plan
4.06      The private firm participating in the subproject has taken up a
minority share of the corporation's equity. The corporation would maintain a
debt to equity ratio not to exceed 2.5:1.
4.07      The profits made by the corporation would be retained for reinvest-
ment and/or distributed as dividends to its shareholders.  Some of the profits
could also be distributed to the fishermen participating in the subproject
based on the value of fish supplied by them during the preceding year.
Operations
4.08      Control of the subproject facilities and their operations at the
seven sites will be centered in Bulan (para. 3.02). The subproject-s princi-
pal operations can be grouped generally into three broad categories:
(a)  the day-to-day function of buying fish at the sites,
transporting the fish to Bulan and Catbalogan for auction,
conducting the auction sales, and operating a fleet of
insulated trucks to transport fish from Bulan and Catbalogan
for sale at the larger urban markets. Most of the fish from
Bulan is expected to go to Manila and from Catbalogan to
Tacloban and other markets in the south;
(b)  operation and maintenance of landing places, ice plants, chill
storage and other on-shore facilities; and
(c)  provision of input supplies to municipal fishermen.



- 37 -
4.09      Procurement of fish would entail purchasing directly from fishermen
at all the subproject sites. After weighing, grading and cleaning, the fish
would be packed in boxes with ice and stored in chill rooms (00 C). Fish
destined for Bulan and Catbalogan would be shipped there by the carrier boats.
Prices paid to fishermen for any given day would likely be linked to the
previous day's auction prices at Bulan and Catbalogan as well as the most
recent prices received by the corporation for fish it sold directly in the
main urban markets (para. 4.08a). Accordingly, Catbalogan would determine the
purchasing prices for Santo Nino, and Bulan for all the other sites.
4.10      Fish dealers participating in the auctions would be prequalified.
Each dealer would establish a line of credit with the corporation and make
full settlement of his accounts for fish purchases and services before the
purchased product is removed from the auction premises (except for well-
established and proven creditworthy dealers who may avail of up to weekly
settlements). Space would be available for dealers to ice and pack their fish
in a packing hall situated near the auction floor, and chill rooms would be
available for rent.
4.11      The ice produced would be used mainly by the corporation for the
fish procured and sold to fish dealers and fishermen participating in the
subproject. Only ice surplus to the requirements of the subproject would be
sold to buyers for other purposes.
4.12      Input supplies would be provided to fishermen under contractual
arrangements requiring that they market their fish catch through the corpora-
tion which would deduct the cost ot the supplies from the proceeds of the
fish marketed based on an agreed repayment schedule (para. 4.14). Supplies
would also be made available to fishermen for a cash payment. Prices charged
for the supplies would be their costs to the corporation plus overheads.
B. Institutional Strengthening
4.13      A fisheries committee would be established to coordinate the
efforts and activities of the fisheries agencies. The committee, comprising
an MNR Assistant Minister as the chairman, the directors (chief executives)
of the agencies, and a representative from MNR's Planning Department would
be the Project Unit (PU) responsible for the implementation of the
institutional strengthening component. Decisions and other actions of the
PU would be carried out by a secretariat to be established within MNR.
Establishment of the PU and its secretariat along the lines indicated above
would be a condition ot loan ettectiveness.



- 38 -
C. Lending Terms and Conditions
4.14      The Bank's loan of $22.4 million would be provided to the
Government at the prevailing interest rate and standard repayment period of
20 years, including 5 years ot grace. A subsidiary loan of $12.0 million
equivalent would be loaned to the subsidiary corporation on the same terms
and conditions. Commitment fees and a foreign exchange risk premium would
be paid by the subsidiary corporation. Input supplies to fishermen would
carry an interest rate of 14% per annum, which is expected to be positive
in real terms. Repayment periods for fishing boats with engines and
replacement engines and hulls would not exceed 6 years, including 1 year of
grace. For other input supplies they would be determined by the corporation
on a case by case basis. The investment items themselves where appropriate
may be used as collateral. A minimum ot 5% downpayment would be required
from subborrowers. Assurances on the above would be obtained during
negotiations.
D. Accounts, Audit, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15      The accounts for the project would be maintained in accordance with
sound accounting practices. The Project Unit (PU) would ensure that separate
accounts for the institutional strengthening component be maintained by
BFAR, PFDA and FIDC. These accounts and those of the corporation would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
audited accounts (including balance sheets and income statements of the
corporation) and auditors' reports would be submitted to the Bank within
four months after the close of each financial year. The audit reports would
include formal opinions on: (a) the financial statements; (b) manner of
compliance with the legal obligations, particularly financial covenants;
(c) the corporation's systems of internal control, accounting, management
information and internal audit; and (d) whether the project funds have been
used for the purposes for which they were provided.
4.16      In addition, the PU would monitor and evaluate the project during
its implementation. The methods and procedures ot monitoring and evaluation
would be undertaken in consultation with the Bank. In this connection, annual
progress reports on the institutional strengthening and area development
subprojects would be prepared by the PU which would submit the reports to the
Bank within three months following the end of each year. The Bank would
undertake a mid-term review in June, 1984, of the project with the view of
making any adjustments in light of the experience gained. The PU would also
prepare a project completion report (PCR) on the project not later than six
months following the completion of loan disbursements. The PCR which would be
submitted to the Bank should include an assessment ot the operating results
and impact of the subproject, performance of the implementing agencies, and
the major reasons for their achievements and deficiencies with the view to



- 39 -
drawing lessons which may usefully be applied to the preparation and
implementation of future projects. An assurance on the above was obtained
during negotiations.
5. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
Production
5.01      The fishing boats and engines, hull and engine replacements, and
fishing gear and other inputs provided under the area development subproject
to municipal fishermen would increase their fish catch by a minimal 700 tons a
year. The minor importance accorded to increasing production is because the
fishing grounds in the subproject area are currently heavily fished and,
according to resource surveys, have limited potential for any significant
expansion of present catch levels. In the event of a shortage of fish, the
project includes provision for improved resource studies and conservation
reports to ensure a rapid rebound for fish stocks in the project area.
Marketing
5.02      The main emphasis of the area development subproject is the
marketing ot tish, most of which would come from municipal and other small-
scale fishermen. The provision of improved marketing facilities and practices
would enable (a) the fishermen to sell a larger proportion of their catch, and
(b) the corporation to offer fishermen higher prices than they would get from
the middlemen buyers (para. 5.05). The corporation could do this because it
would be able to:
(a)  through economies of scale in its operations, reduce the marketing
costs to an estimated P 4.17 per kg of fish compared with
P 4.80 for the existing marketers;
(b)  sell a significant proportion of its fish directly to the
high-priced urban markets;
(c)  store fish with minimal loss of quality, especially in periods
when supplies are plentiful and prices low in order to sell later
when fish is in short supply;
(d)  market fish of generally higher quality resulting from the
increasing use by municipal fishermen of its ice and insulated
fish boxes; and
(e)  purchase fish for consumption in fresh form which otherwise would
be sold by fishermen for drying and salting at lower prices.
5.03      The corporation could expect to handle about 8,000 tons a year at
full development or about one-fifth of the present catch in the subproject



- 40 -
area. Estimates of the value of fish by grades and the markets where the
fish would be sold are given in Table 5.1 below:
Table 5.1: THE CORPORATION'S FISH SALES ESTIMATES
BY GRADES AND URBAN MARKETS
(% of total value)
Markets
Catbalogan/
Grade                   Manila      Bulan      Tacloban       Total
Premium & 1st class /a  14            -            -            14
2nd class                 20         25           - /b          45
3rd class                  3         30           9             41
'lotal                  36         55           9            100
/a Including shrimp.
/b Less than 0.5%.
Note: Percentages do not add up due to rounding.
5.04      The fish sold at Bulan and Catbalogan to wholesalers and other
buyers would be distributed by them to consuming markets as at present. Some
of the second class fish sold at Bulan would end up in urban markets mainly to
the north, including Manila. Most of the fish sold in Manila would be of
higher quality grades, and would be transported by the corporation's insulated
trucks which would be able to haul to that city some 260 tons of fish a month.
If the corporation finds that it can profitably operate more than the 5 trucks
provided to handle sales to urban markets, it could purchase more of these
vehicles later and reduce the volume of fish sold in Bulan.
Prices
5.05       Since the small incremental output from the subproject represents
only some 2% of the total catch from the fishing grounds in the subproject
area and less than 0.5% of the landings at Navotas, it would accordingly have
no effect on future fish prices. The projected earnings of the corporation
indicate that its operations would remain profitable even if the prices it
pays fishermen average 10% higher than the prices they are getting at present.
The fish price used in determining the projected earnings is based on a
weighted average price in the markets concerned for the year prior to the time
of appraisal. Prices as of appraisal were used in the cash flow estimates and
rates of return calculations (Annexes 9 and 10), although it should be noted
that the price of fish may be on the conservative side since it has in recent
years risen faster than the wholesale price index.



- 41 -
6. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Institutional Strengthening
6.01      Although the impact of the institutional strengthening component
cannot be easily quantified, its major benefits on the production and
utilization of fish would include:
(a) increased volume and efficiency of fish production from the
development of improved technology and provision of increased and
more effective extension support for fishermen and fishpond
operators;
(b) limiting the exploitation of the fisheries resources by
preventing overfishing and fishing by illegal methods, and
facilitating proper assessment and management of the resources;
(c) improving product quality and reduction in spoilage by improving
fish handling and processing techniques and their dissemination to
fishermen and fish processors; and
(d) lower marketing costs and improved distribution of fish between
surplus and deficit areas through the collection and dissemination
of market data.
A,rea Development
6.02      Major benefits of the area development subproject would include:
(a) an increase in the fish catch of about 700 tons annually
valued at some P 8.9 million;
(b) employment for about 200 permanent workers and 80 man-years
annually of casual labor to be provided by the corporation
which would market fish initially from about 2,500 municipal and
other small-scale fishermen, but with the possibility that more
would participate later on;
(c) increases in the income of participating fishermen; and
(d) increased efficiency in fishing operations, lower marketing
costs, better quality fish, and reduced spoilage of fish from the
(e) provision of improved inputs for fishing and marketing
facilities.



- 42 -
6.03       If the corporation distributes its efficiency gains to partici-
pating fishermen through higher fish prices, then a 10% increase in such
prices over current market prices would amount to about P 2.5 million per
year. These fishermen would gain still more to the extent that profits are
distributed to them. Non-participating fishermen would also benefit to the
extent that the fish prices offered by the middlemen-buyers would increase
as a result of the higher prices paid by the corporation. Other benefi-
ciaries would include the local workers engaged to construct the various
sutbproject facilities requiring about 43,000 man-days of labor and the local
fishing industry which would generally benefit from the ice, cold storage,
transport and boat repair facilities provided by the corporation. Balanced
against all these benefits would be a smaller number of losers comprising
the fish buyers, brokers and transport operators whose profits may be
reduced by the competition introduced by the corporation.
6.04      Assuming that the corporation's fish buying prices are 10% higher
than that currently paid by the middlemen-buyers, the financial rate of
return (FRR) on its investment is estimated at about 19%. The FRR on the
investment for the motorized fishing boats (bancas) with fishing gear
and other supplies which account for the major part of the input supplies to
fishermen is estimated at about 32%. Estimates of the annual benefits and
costs during the useful life of the motorized fishing boats (6 years) and
investments of the corporation (20 years) are shown in Annexes 9 and 10.
6.05      The economic rates of return (ERR) of the corporation's investment
(Annex 10) and the motorized fishing boats are estimated at 24% and 36%
respectively.  In the determination of the estimates, the investments,
operating costs and fish prices have been adjusted for taxes, duties and
subsidies wherever identifiable, and the following conversion factors
applied: 0.84 for consumption goods (fish and ice), 0.83 for construction,
0.78 for transport services, 0.87 for other capital goods (machinery and
equipment), 0.82 for skilled labor, 0.65 for semiskilled labor, 0.48 for
unskilled labor, 0.83 for operation of the facilities, 0.89 for carrier
boats and 0.82 for all other items.
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks
6.06      At appraisal tests were performed to determine the sensitivity of
the rates of return to changes in the costs and benefits of the motorized
fishing boat and corporation. The switching values at which the rate of
return would fall below 14% (the opportunity cost of capital), are
summarized in Table 6.1 below:



- 43 -
Table 6.1: SWITCHING VALUES (x)
Financial         Economic
Motorized Fishing Boat
Revenues                                  -3                3
Investment costs                        +18               +24
Operating costs                          +3                +4
Corporation
Revenues                                 -10              -19
Investment costs                        +39               +81
Operating costs                         +14               +34
As indicated in the table, the rates of return are most sensitive to changes
in the revenues and operating costs. Revenues for fishing boats depend on
catch volume and price; volumes have been set conservatively and would
actually rise as fishery regulation enforcement improves, and fish prices
have been rising faster than the general price index, so the revenue risks
are acceptable. However, since the margin of safety in revenues and operating
costs is small, the corporation would accordingly need to achieve the fullest
possible use of its facilities, especially regarding the volume of fish
marketed and the commercial use of vessels, trucks and ancillary facilities
wherever feasible, sell its fish in markets which fetch the highest returns,
and carry out its operations efficiently. The fishing boats would need to
reduce operating costs, mainly through the supplementary use of sails at every
available opportunity.
6.07      This is a high risk project.  The operating results of the area
development subproject, being the first of its kind in the Philippines, would
be subject to many uncertainties, MNR's fisheries agencies have no experience
in implementing Bank-assisted projects, and the management within BFAR is at
present weak. The major uncertainties which would confront the area
development subproject include the following.
(a)  The extent to which the corporation is able to perform efficiently
and successfully, including breaking into the existing marketing
system in a manner which would prove beneficial to fishermen
without seriously disrupting the present trading pattern, will
depend on its ability to engage competent and experienced senior
staff, especially managers, who are well-acquainted with the
fisheries operations in the subproject area. Breaking into the
existing marketing system, bound as it is by an intricate web of
social and economic relations between fishermen and the middlemen
fish buyers, will be a major challenge.



- 44 -
(b) Any delays or errors in the design or construction of the subproject
facilities which would postpone the start of marketing operations
or restrict their expansion would in turn adversely affect the
corporation's operating results.
(c) Estimates of the fisheries resources and their sustainable levels
in the subproject areas are not fully reliable so that if there is
over-fishing, smaller catches may occur in the future. However,
this problem is expected to be addressed under the institutional
strengthening component (para. 3.08).
These risks are acceptable especially because the target group of project
beneficiaries lives in a depressed area and has so far received very little
assistance. If the project objectives are successfully achieved it is
anticipated that similar investments could be undertaken in the future.
6.08      The environmental impact of the project would be negligible.  The
only pollutant sources would be domestic sewage and oil spillage from the area
development subproject. These matters would be addressed by the subproject
which provides for the installation of septic tanks and oily water separators.
7. RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following:
(a) Government would provide adequate funds for the proper use and
maintenance of the project facilities following their completion
(para. 3.11);
(b) the debt to equity ratio of the corporation would not exceed
2.5:1 (para. 4.06);
(c) the corporation's general manager and two deputy managers would be
appointed in consultation with the Bank (para. 4.03);
(d) Input supplies to fishermen would carry an interest rate of 14%
per annum. Repayment periods for fishing boats with engines and
replacement engines and hulls would not exceed 6 years, including
1 year of grace. For other input supplies they would be deter-
mined by the corporation on a case by case basis (para. 4.15);
(e) the borrower would carry out a mid-term review with the Bank
in June 1984 (para. 4.17); and
(f) by December 31, 1982 the organizational changes proposed for
BFAR, PFDA and FIDC will have been submitted (paras. 2.39-2.42).



- 45 -
7.02      Condition of loan effectiveness:  that the Project Unit and its
secretariat have been established (para. 4.14) and that the subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been executed (para. 4.15).
7.03      Subject to the above, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of $22.4 million equivalent, with a term of 20 years, including 5 years
of grace.



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present Organization - Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
Divii    es         RecoriePlaoi                             l DMnnreFor    tyhts                                      l          roeetio                    Staff                     Marertolssfianyct                                  Army ottOq
G-'. SvI -                                                                                             F L.ry Rgl-ql                                            SatA,Fir it ln  rer Sclotl  S rato,t
I-ti-                                                                              _d Adj. --                                                                                                                                    inResearch  anti Rerttrrnt  sstc  f    tattoo
Sectio                  Seert en                    Sect,orr
h|,6 rnd Enforcement        Fishe its Litenses      r          s e es         l l          Dv lFish Poca- attnille                                  F    r    es                Finar--r Ee qt-eerinq        Fsl-ets  E--is                  Tec,hnnlog,l
-d      11       I       F 0lw  L ii-                     I, h"_i                                                                                            ......l                                                    
Dim~~~~i-  Divi~~~~~~w             D ~~~~~i~i-m   onDittii                                                                       o,to                      Di,t i-t                 Setnee  Diotiai-
0 t X 1 [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ reoms 0Fsrrwerin,eerttt                                                                                                                 l        -Anlanltae                    D X  ee~tio  esea
X h X   0  caltoqlaphy i                                                                    Bn X   0   SttT,t   l  0   trnekish  A  rrcltore        a   Rte                     F tO t PF ith,et
4   LK    ci          l      |       S-ctclr.      l      |       Se-1 n                       S-e-or                          S-t-                            ttt norat                                               Sectini                      Se-in
0  (IvjCts PermlT    l    A  I)evolormen?    j   0   Inl rntt on    [ 0   Stkar nt                       FtOr.1selrtrrq}l             F slee                    F oh Proceesrg                 rCoestol
Lahoenrory ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~- Cartasreoh         Preonerto                                                  Wae  I- Ehre                  Tet:trttlttn                . -larr r                       intentio Fihote
F|~hi,,y Pecto.X             |       S                      |       Snction                       i e.tt...                    St.gnit
1 2"
F        V.I, Bthto k    22553
F~~~Ie r_a  Ftt.rt                      Cr_tt  Ltt                    torcyrtl                          tttrtFtrttn                                              't],trrtlttteitrrr    22 553er



- 47 -
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                    ANNEX 2
Proposed Organization - Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
Administrative                              Fin nce                                                                    |      Planningand
Management
_2    Personnel and   |          _|    Accounting   |                                                                 _      Planning and
Staff Development    scnguntengPoet DTraoin
Systems 
_   Records    j           _        Bu~~~~~dget                                                                        D evelopment|
Prodt             F    g |   t                                                       e Cashiering  En                      o          Ealuation
LObrary             Property Unit                                                                                        i
Assistant Director                                             Assistant Directort
Fisheries Management                                               Extension and                                              Assistant Director
and Conservation                                                    Trai oisng                                               R ese Frc
Aquraculture
Demonstration                                       _Fleet
|Regulation and Law   |   |                                                                                                                             Maie  l     echnology
|  Enforcement                      Licensing                           e X nsion                  Training                        a  lhre            l       Vrfcto
P roducts                             t                                     Planning          Training    1             1    FseyEooy| |                Fsee
L  F   Flshery Law    l   l Fishpond    L7]             L        ecnolog       |   |   Fishermen's   L                         esourc~e                 Fish        L
Enforcement                       Leases                                 Packaging           Training Centers                         Surveys               Utilization
Fishery                                                                                              ishing
g~ ~~~~~~~~~~v llhr   .l a| tvaluatn                                                           Te'chnology
Permits                                                                                        and
Operations                                                                                                      a
World Ban k 22 554



_ 48 -
PHI LIPPINES                                                                ANNEX 3
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present Organziation - Philippine Fish Marketing Authority
Board of
Directors
General
Manager
Assistant General
Nlanager
l   | |  Reitions |     Resourcs |  Developmet
Planning and                      Operations                                    Navotas                  Administrative                Financial
Development                       Department                                     Fishing                  Department                  Department
Fishing Ports          Socialized             Regional                          Harbo rPernnlugt
Packageii            Fish Trading             Units                          Operations                   Personnel                   Budget
National Fishll                                                                               ll
_   Marketing                                                         _         Market
Operations                   Records
Maintenance          _       General
_   Corporate                                                         _        Division                   Services
Planning
ADB/FAO                                                               _:   Administrative
X   Project       |
l    Land Area    l                                                   j    General Billing
+  Development  |                                                       H         Unit
I   office                                                                                                                          B  I2I
World Bank -- 22555



- 49 -
PHILIPPINES                                                    ANNEX 4
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization - Philippine Fish Marketing Authority
Board of
Directors
General
Manager
Assistant
General Manager
Task Force                                   ~~~~~~~~~~Planning and
Development
Department
l    Corporate    l  [ Project Plan and
l    Planning  l  |   Development
Economic and
MIS                 Management
Research
Legaland                                            Public and                    Financial
Administrative                         ~~~~~~~~~Institutional
|   Administrative    l|Affairs                                                    Management
Human Resources          General
Legal Office       Development             Services                                    Bde              conig          Mngmn
Mediaand             -V      1     Institutional Relation
L   and Business Promotions n
an a                 Field Operation,FieldOperationsWrld Bans  rtation 
| Tmninal                      (Lzn                                                    (Mnano                       Department |
Ice Cold |          HabrCei                             Eniern_                                                  Trfc      l
S torage  l       Oprto              Maaeet             Mngmt
World Bank - 22556



- 50-                          ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Main Features of the Area Development Subproject
1.        The area covered by the subproject comprises:
(a) Ticao Pass. This is between Bulan on the southwest side of the
Bicol Peninsula and Ticao Island. The sites in this area are Bulan
and San Jacinto on Ticao Island.
(b) The southern part of the east coast of Masbate Island bordering the
Samar Sea. The sites in this area are at Miaga and Cataingan.
(c) The west coast of the southern part of Masbate Island bordering the
east Visayan Sea. The site in this area is at Placer.
(d) The Islands in the center of the Samar Sea. The site in this
area is on Santo Nino Island.
(e) The area around Catbalogan on the west coast of the province of
East Samar bordering the Samar Sea. The area extends to Tarangnan
to the north and includes Maqueda Bay to the south. The site in
this area is at Catbalogan.
2.        The subproject sites and fishing grounds are subject to differing
climatic conditions which in turn influences the fishing season at each site.
Sites on west facing coasts are affected more by the southwest monsoon and on
east facing coasts by the northeast monsoon. The tidal range in the
subproject area is around 1 1/2 - 2 m. W4ater depths in various parts also
vary widely.
3.        In Ticao Pass the sea bed slopes steeply.  Near Bulan the 20 m
contour is 1 km from the shore, while on the Ticao Island side the 20 m
contour is even closer and the sea bed 5 km from the shore reaches a depth of
nearly 200 m. On the east side of the southern part of Masbate the 20 m
depth contour is close inshore and at the southern end the 200 m contour is
also very close being only 3 km offshore in the region of Cataingan. The
Visayan Sea to the south and west of Masbate Island is much shallower, the 20
m contour being 5 km offshore in the region of Placer and 15 km offshore in
the region of Naro Island, just west of Cawayan. The sea bed around the
islands in the center of the Samar Sea slopes very rapidly and is at a depth
of around 90-100 m within a distance of 2 or 3 km from the shore. The area
around Catbalogan is fairly shallow, the 20 n contour is around 4 km fron the
shore while the whole of Maqueda Bay has water depths of less than 10 m.



- 51 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        Typhoons occur in the whole area.  According to data in the
Philippine Islands Pilot, the subproject area lies in the usual paths of
typhoons for most months of the year with around 30 typhoons in bands
approximately 300 km wide having been recorded in the last 50 years.
Although only a small proportion of the typhoons will affect any particular
site, their frequency is such that waves generated will be the predominant
factor in the design of the marine facilites at most of the sites. It is
therefore most important that the subproject is designed around as shallow
drafted fish carrier boats as possible. This is because the maximum height
a wave can reach is governed by the depth of water and to construct break
waters capable of resisting waves of greater height than 2 to 3 m becomes
extremely costly and uneconomical for small fishing harbours. For this
reason the maximum water draft of the carrier boats has been limited so a
berth of only 2 m is required which would permit a maximum wave height of
between 2 and 2-1/2 m at high water.
5.        Apart from Bulan and Catbalogan the sites are in areas with no
major existing or planned electricity supply. Bulan is connected to the main
grid in the province of Sorsogon and the reported capacity of the line and
substation at Bulan is 5 MVA compared with a current maximum demand of 2.2
MVA.
6.        Catbalogan is at present supplied from a power station at Wright
(approximately 20 km to the east) where there is an installed capacity of
5,000 KW and a present peak load of 1,380 km (September 1980). There are
plans to link western Samar to a geothermal power station to be constructed
near Ornoc in Leyte which is planned ;) produce 37.5 MW by August 1982, 75 MW
by November 1982, 112.5 MW by February 1983, and 450 MW in 1985. The
transmission line to Wright is planned for 1983.
7.        Despite this, the reliability of the power supply may be
insufficient where highly perishable goods are involved and the subproject
has been drawn up to be selfsufficient in power. At Catbalogan where an ice
plant and chill room are to be provided under a BFAR project currently under
construction it is understood that the project includes its own generating
equipment.
8.        It has similarly been assumed that the subproject will have its own
water supply. The cost estimates would accordingly include wells and
pipelines to all the sites.
9.        The only paved road of any significance in the subproject area is
the Manila Highway. This is generally a two lane concrete paved road and
extends from Manila to Matnog on the north side of the San Bernardino Strait
between the Island of Luzon and Samar and then from Allen down Samar to
Catbalogan, across the San Juanico Bridge to Tacloban in Leyte and further



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
south. The San Bernardino Strait crossing is made by ferry. At present one
ferry is in operation and another is planned shortly. The present service
is one journey a day in each direction and the vessel is large enough to take
trucks in excess of 20 tons. Bulan is connected to the Manila Highway by a
concrete paved road. On Masbate Island there is a gravel road in not too
bad condition which extends south from Masbate to Cataingan and a gravel
road in rather worse condition from Cataingan to Placer. Miaga is on a
local loop road which is at present largely a dirt road and is scheduled for
upgrading shortly. All the gravel roads on Masbate Island appeared to be of
basically sound condition but are deteriorating rather rapidly due to lack
of maintenance.
10.       Commercial facilities for vessel repairs are not available in the
subproject area but slipways are available at Ilo Ilo and Cebu, both about
10-12 hours steaming time from the south of Masbate Island. Facilities for
minor engine repairs are available at Catbalogan. Facilities would be
provided at the Bulan site for slipping for hull repairs, cleaning and
painting, and a workshop for engine repairs.



- 53 -
ANNEX 6
Table i
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area Development Subproject - Total Estimated Costs
(P'OO0)
Foreign       Local
exchange      cost       Total
Bulan
Site preparation                                     2,831      6,630       9,461
Buildings                                            1,660      4,282       5,942
Machinery and equipment                              3,021      1,959       4,980
San Jacinto
Site preparation                                       235        744         979
Buildings                                              148        412         560
Machinery and equipment                                148        101         249
Miaga
Site preparation                                       775      1,809       2,584
Buildings                                              445      1,219       1,664
Machinery and equipment                                841        629       1,470
Cataingan
Site preparation                                       317        921       1,238
Buildings                                              329        853       1,182
Machinery and equipment                                841        627       1,468
Placer
Site preparation                                     2,947      8,083      11,030
Buildings                                            1,680      3,683       5,363
Machinery and equipment                              2,231      1,526       3,757
Catbalogan
Site preparation                                       532      1,574       2,106
Buildings                                              418      1,329       1,747
Machinery and equipment                                292        212         504
Sto Nih'o
Site preparation                                       837      1,966       2,803
Buildings                                              543      1,484       2,027
Machinery and equipment                                801        598       1,399
21,872    40,641       62,513
Spare parts for machinery                                728        415       1,143
Engineering design & supervision                         224      6,162       6,386
Carrier vessels and  fish boxes                        5,488      3,911       9,399
Supplies to fishermen                                  5,600      3,911       9,511
Allowance for purchase of BFAR ice plant
complex at Catbalogan                                1,896      2,230       4,126
Working capital /a                                     1,008      6,162       7,170
Administrative costs /b.                                 672      4,266       4,938
Subtotal                                37,488    67,698    105,186
Less taxes                                              (411)   (2,449)      (2,860)
Total                                   37,077    65,249    102,326
/a Operating costs for three months and one month purchase of fish following
coimplqtion of project facilities.
/b Salaries and transport costs of staff during construction of project
facilities.
Note: Breakdown of costs for the remaining items are given in supporting
tables. Appraisal prices updated through 12/81 by 18.5% (local cost)
and 12.0% (foreign). Tables 2-5 of project file should be adjusted
accordingly ($1 = P 8.1).



- 54 -
ANNEX 6
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Strengthening - Cost Estimates for the Fishery Industry Development Council
Foreign ex-
Foreign   Local    Total    Foreign    Local         Total   change as %
______- (US$'000) ------   ------- (Pesos  000) -------    of total
Transport
2 4-wheel drive jeeps                                     14.5       6.6     21.1       117.6       53.3      170.9
2 4-door cars                                             11.6       5.3     16.9        94.0       42.7      136.7
1 station wagon                                           10.9       4.9     15.8        88.3       40.0      128.3
Subtotal                                              37.0      16.8      53.8       299.9      136.0      435.9
Equipment
1 multilith offset printer                                17.1       3.4     20.5       128.3       25.5      153.8
1 WBIX copying machine                                     8.0       1.6      9.6        60.0       12.0       72.0
1 audio visual equipment (overhead projector,
slide projector (2) and tape deck)                       4.3      0.9       5.2        32.3        6.8       39.1
Subtotal                                              29.4       5.9      35.3       220.6       44.3      264.9
Library Improvement
Furniture, etc.                                            2.1       4.7       6.8        15.8       35.3      51.1
Books, journals, manuals                                  27.0       -        27.0      202.5         -       202.5
Other publications                                         6.5       -         6.5        4R.8        -         48.8
Subtotal                                              35.6       4.7      40.3       267.1       35.3      302.4
Consultancy Fund
Marine fisheries management specialist (24 MM)           211.6      39.5    251.1    1,714.0       320.0   2,034.0
Sociologist (12 MM)                                        -        35.1      35.1         -       285.0      285.0
Marine biologist (12 MM)                                 106.0      19.8    125.8        857.0      160.0   1,017.0
Fisheries industries specialist (12 MM)                  106.0      19.8    125.8       857.0       160.0   1,017.0
Resource economist (12 MM)                               106.0      19.8    125.8       857.0      160.0   1,017.0
Financial analyst (24 MM)                                  -        70.4      70.4         -        570.0     570.0
Subtotal                                              529.6    204.4    734.0    4,285.0   1,655.0   5,940.0
Training (Foreign)
1 fisheries industries development (24 MM)                26.5       0.1     26.6       198.8        0.8      199.6
1 resource economics (12 MM)                              14.5       0.1     14.6       108.8        0.8      109.6
1 marine fisheries management (12 MM)                     14.5       0.1     14.6       108.8        0.8      109.6
Subtotal                                              55.5       0.3      55.8       416.4        2.4      418.8
Training (Local)
2 marine fisheries (48 MM)                                 -         2.7       2.7         -         20.3      20.3
2 aquaculture (48 MM)                                      -         2.7       2.7         -         20.3      20.3
1 sociology (24 MM)                                        -         1.1       1.1         -          8.3        8.3
1 statistics (24 MM)                                       -         1.2       1.2         -          9.0        9.0
2 business administration and finance (48 MM)              -         1.7       1.7         -         12.8       12.8
2 economics (48 MM)                                        -         2.0       2.0         -         15.0       15.0
Subtotal                                                -        11.4     11.4         -         85.7       85.7
Operating Costs (4 years) (vehicles)                        53.5      25.1      78.6       433.0      203.6      636.6
Total                                                 740.6    268.6  1,009.2    5,922.0   2,162.3   8,084.3           73
Updated 12/81 ($1 = P 8.1)



- 55 -
ANNEX 6
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Strengthening - Cost Estimates for the Philippine Fish Marketing Authority
Foreign ex-
Foreign   Local    Total    Foreign    Local          Total   change as %
------- (US$000) -------  ------- (Pesos  000) -------    of total
Technical Assistance
Fish port engineer/planner (36 MM)                        317.3      59.2    376.6   2,570.4        479.9   3,050.3
Fish port and market operation specialist (24 MM)    211.6           39.5    251.1   1,713.6        320.0   2,033.6
Subtotal                                               528.9      98.7    627.7   4,284.0        799.9   5,083.9
Overseas Training
11 fellowships 1 year duration - port and market
operations and management, including fish
handling and hygiene practices                          159.5       0.1    159.6   1,196.3          0.8   1,197.1
11 port engineering designs and maintenance, each
1 year duration                                         159.5       0.1    159.6   1,196.3          0.8   1,197.1
5 fellowships (3 months each) study and observa-
tion tours of fish ports and markets                     35.0       0.5      35.5      262.5        3.8      266.3
Subtotal                                               354.0       0.7    354.7   2,655.1          5.4   2,660.5
Local Training                                                 -      200.0    200.0         -      1,500.0   1,500.0
Office Equipment
2 copying machines                                         15.9       3.1      19.0      119.3       23.3      142.6
1 duplicating machine                                       4.6       0.9       5.5       34.5        6.8       41.3
1 hook binder                                               3.4       0.6       4.0       25.5        4.5       30.0
7 cash registers                                           16.7       3.3      20.0      125.3       24.8      150.1
8 desk calculators                                          0.8       0.1       0.9        6.0        0.8        6.8
Subtotal                                                41.4       8.0      49.4      310.6       60.2      370.8
Communication Equipment
7 SSB radio/transmitter system, frequency range
136-174 mhz with power supply 12n/220/240 VAC
and dipole antennas                                      36.9      11.6      48.5      299.0       94.2      393.2
22 walkie talkies - 10 mile range                           6.2       1.9       8.1       50.4       15.2       65.6
Subtotal                                                43.1      13.5      56.6      349.4      109.4      458.8
Transport
2 4-door cars                                              12.8       4.1      16.8      103.4       32.9      136.3
10 4-wheel drive jeeps                                     79.9      25.2    105.1       646.8      204.4      851.2
3 insulated trucks                                         43.0      13.7      56.8      348.7      111.2      459.9
Subtotal                                               135.7      43.0    178.7   1,098.9        348.5   1,447.4
Fish Port Operation and Maintenance Equipment
11 23-ft security and inspection launches with
25 hp kerosene engine (gasoline start-up)                41.1      13.1      54.1      332.6      105.8      438.4
1 tractor with scoop loader                                33.6       3.5      37.1      272.2       28.4      300.6
1 compressor for power tools                               21.1       2.2      23.3      170.6       17.8      188.4
1 mobile crane (1 to 1-1/2 tons)                           56.0       6.0      62.0      453.6       48.0      501.6
1 pickup truck (1-1/2 tons)                                 8.5       0.9       9.4       68.9        7.1       76.0
Miscellaneous tools                                        17.3        1.0     18.3      140.3        8.1      148.4
Subtotal                                               177.6      26.7    204.2   1,438.2        215.2   1,653.4
Operating Cost (4 years)
(Vehicles and boats)                                      190.n    135.5    325.5   1,538.9   1,097.7   2,636.6
Total                                                1,470.7    526.1  1,996.0  11,675.1   4,136.3  15,811.4            74
Updated 12/18 ($1 - P 8.1).



- 56 -
ANNEX 6
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Strengthening - Cost Estimates for the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
Foreign ex-
Foreign   Local    Total         Foreign      Local       Total   change as %
- --- (US$OOO) ------  ------- (Pesos -000) -------    of total
Resource Assessment
Research vessel (200 GT), including refitting                 880.0        -       880.0    7,128.0          -       7,128.0
Fishing, sampling and research equipment                      104.4       11.0     115.4       845.9        88.9       934.8
Oceanographic equipment                                        27.5        3.0       30.5      222.7        24.1       246.8
Reef fishing survey & research vessel (10 GT)
for continuous monitoring of reef fishing in
project area including gear                                  13.4        5.6      19.0       108.4        45.4       153.8
Resource survey fund (300 operational days)                     -        131.7     131.7          -      1,066.5    1,066.5
Subtotal                                                1,025.3      151.3  1,176.6    8,304.9    1,225.5    9,530.4
Resource Management, Law Enforcement, Extension and
Statistics
72 pump boats                                                  59.7       42.1     101.8       483.8       341.3       825.1
12 23-ft patrol boats with 25 hp diesel engine                 44.8       14.3      59.1       362.9       115.5       478.4
400 motorcycles, 100 cc                                       431.2      136.9      568.1    3,492.7    1,109.2    4,601.9
Fishery extension equipment (125 sets) and sup-
port equipment for inland fisheries extension               114.1       12.1     126.7       924.0        97.8    1,021.8
Surveying equipment (4 sets)                                   18.9        2.0      20.9       152.9        16.0       168.9
14 desk calculators                                             1.5        0.3        1.8       11.8         2.7        14.5
Subtotal                                                   670.2     207.7      877.9    5,428.1    1,682.5    7,110.6
Fish Utilization Equipment'
Research, microbiological and chemical                         54.3        5.8      60.1       440.2        47.2       487.4
Product development                                           152.3       16.1     168.4    1,234.0        130.7    1,364.7
Demonstration (extension)                                       4.4        0.4        4.8        35.3         3.6       38.9
Subtotal                                                   211.0      22.3      233.3    1,709.5        181.5    1,891.0
Transport, Communication, Documentation
12 4-wheel drive vehicles                                      95.7       30.4     126.1       775.4       246.2    1,021.6
2 4-door cars                                                  12.8        4.1       16.9      103.4        33.0       136.4
7 SS8 sets                                                     36.9       11.6      48.5       299.0        94.2       393.2
1 duplicating equipment                                         4.4        1.4        5.8       35.3        11.6        46.9
Subtotal                                                   149.8      47.5      197.3    1,213.1        385.0    1,598.1
Overseas Training, Masters Degree
Fisheries biology (population dynamics) for stock
assessment (24 MM)                                           26.5        0.1      26.6       198.8         0.8       199.6
Fishery management (24 MM)                                     26.5        0.1       26.6      198.8         0.8       199.6
Fish processing technology (24 MM)                             26.5        0.1       26.6      198.8         0.8       199.6
Resource economics (24 MM)                                     26.5        0.1       26.6      198.8          0.8      199.6
Subtotal                                                   106.0        0.4     106.4       795.2         3.2      798.4
Post Graduate Training
I physical oceanography (6 MM)                                  8.5        0.1       8.6        63.8         0.8        64.6
1 biological oceanography (6 MM)                                8.5        0.1        8.6       63.8         0.8        64.6
1 fish population dynamics (6 KM)                               8.5        0.1        8.6       63.8         0.8        64.6
1 fishing methods, techniques and gear (6 MM)                   8.5        0.1        8.6       63.8         0.8        64.6
1 boat designs and construction (6 MM)                          8.5        0.1        8.6       63.8         0.8        64.6
2 microbiology (12 MM)                                          17.0       0.2       17.2      127.5          1.5      129.0
1 product development (6 MM)                                    8.5        0.1        8.6       63.8         0.8        64.6
2 quality control and inspection (24 MM)                        29.0       0.2       29.0      217.5          1.5      219.0
Subtotal                                                    97.0        1.0      98.0       727.8         7.8       735.6
Vehicle and Vessel Operating Cost (4 years)
M/v researcher                                                286.9      576.2      863.1    2,323.9    4,667.4    6,991.3
Pump boats                                                    674.3      203.6      877.9    5,461.6    1,649.5   7,111.1
Patrol boats                                                  105.1       74.2      179.3      851.5       600.7    1,452.2
Motorcycles                                                   318.6      224.7      543.3    2,580.5    1,820.2    4,400.7
Cars                                                           21.3       15.4       36.7      172.5       125.0       297.5
4-wheel drive jeeps                                           129.0       82.6      211.6    1,045.0       669.1    1,714.1
Subtotal                                                1,535.2   1,176.7   2,711.9  12,435.0    9,531.9   21,966.9
Total                                                    3,794.5   1,606.9   5,401.4   30,613.6   13,017.4   43,631.0            70
Updated 12/81 ($1 = P 8.1).
Revised to include vessel purchase 4/82



PHI LIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEAR         1                 2                3                 4                5                 6
1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1             3   4   1  2 3    4   1   2   3
APPOINT CONSULTANTS<
z
PREPARE FINAL DESIGN                                                                                                                       0
PREPARE TENDER DOCUMENTS                                  _                                                          O
PREQUALIFY CONTRACTORS
TENDER PERIOD 
APPOINTMENT OF CONTRACTOR                                           _
CONTRACTOR MOBILIZATION
BULAN AND PLACER                                                                                                                                      <
SITE PREPARATION - RECLAMATION                                                      _
- JETTY AND BREAKWATER                                                                                                    <
BUILDINGS                                                                                                                                                   K
EQUIPMENT       - PROCURE
-INSTALL                                                                                                                 Z0
-COMMISSION
MIAGA, CATAINGAN, CATBALOGAN                                                                                                         <
SITE PREPARATION - RECLAMATION
--JETTIES<
BUILDINGS                                                                                                          _
EQUIPMENT         PROCURE                                                                                                       _                            Z
-INSTALL
COMMISSION
STO NINO, SAN JACINTO                                                                                                                                  <
SITE PREPARAT-ION    RECLAMATION
- JETTIES
BUILDINGS
EQUIPMENT       - PROCURE
- INSTALL
--COMMISSION
World Bank-22275
'-4



- 58 -
PHI LIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                           ANNEX 8
AREA DEVELOPMENT SUB-PROJECT
Proposed Organization for the Corporation
Board of Directors
Chairman
|  General Manage
l~~~~~~~~~~~
| peatoM.anilaG L                                   - 2 Finance and Administration
Operations Manager                                         Liaison        4 -  -   -   -   -   -   --                  Manager
Accounting,
Engineering                                                         Budget and
Maintenance       1                                                 Procurement
Bulan               _         and Repairs                                                          and Stores
Headquarters
Market                                                           Fishermen's
| Operations                                                           Credit
Transport        J                                                   Personnel
Operations                                                           Pesne
Field                                                                              General
Offices                                                                         Administration
acr   Catbalogan         Caana                 0g at   Ni~                     an Jacint
Market             Transport
Operations           Operations
World Bank - 22557



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area Development Subproject
New Motorized Banca - Financial Analysis
(Pesos)
Project semester:        1       2       3       4       5        6       7       8        9        10     11         12
(6-month period)
Benefits
Fish sales /a                 9,889   9,890  8,406  8,406  8,826   8,826  7,503  7,502   7,878   7,877  6,696    6,696
Costs
Investment /b
Hull                        2,600        -       -       -       -        -       -      -        -         -      -         -
Engine                      3,000                -               -        -       -      -        -        -       -
Gear                        2,000        -       -       -  2,000         -       -      -   2,000         -       -   (1,000)
Subtotal                   7,600        -       -       -  2,000         -      -       -   2,000         -       -   (1,000)    @
Operating Costs /c
Fuel                        5,235   5,235  5,235  5,235  5,235   5,235  5,235  5,235   5,235   5,235  5,235    5,235
Wages                       1,350   1,350  1,350  1,350  1,350   1,350  1,350  1,350   1,350   1,350  1,350              1,350
Maintenance & repair          570      570    570    570    570         570    570    570       570      570    570        570
Subtotal                   7,155   7,155  7,155  7,155  7,155   7,155  7,155  7,155   7,155   7,155  7,155    7,155
Net Benefits (Costs)    (4,866)  2,735  1,251  1,251   (329)  1,671    348    347  (1,227)              722   (459)       541
Financial Rate of Return /d:  32%
/a Because investments occurring in different seasons yield different results, an average across all seasons is used
here, such that sales and operating costs for the first and second semesters of each year are equal, and variation
in sales occurs only between years. Catch averages 41 kg/day for 180 days of fishing per year. Sale is through
existing channels at average price of P 2.68/kg. As hull, engine and gear age and as gear is replaced, catch in
years 2-6 changes by -15%, +5%, -15%, +5%, -15%.
/b Fishermen starts with all new hull, engine and fishing net; hull life 6 years, engine life 8 years with residual
value of P 1,000 at end of year 6, and gear life 2 years.
/c Fuel: 11.75 liters/day x 180 days x P 4.95/liter. Wages for crew: P 15/day x 180 days. Maintenance and repair:
15% of cost of new equipment each year.
/d  Annual rate.  Semiannual rate is 15%.                                                                                              a x



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area Development Subproject
New Motorized Banca - Cash Flow Summary
(Pesos)
Project semester (6-month period)
1      2       3      4       5       6      7       8      9       10      11      12
Inflow
Fish sales /a           9,889  9,890  8,406  8,406  8,826  8,826  7,503  7,502  7,878  7,877  6,696   6,696
Project loan /b         5,320      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -        -
Other sources/c             -      -       -       -  1,017       -    233    186  1,764    456    861           -
Subtotal           15,209  9,890  8,406  8,406  9,843  8,826  7,736  7,688  9,642  8,333  7,557   6,696
Outflow
Investment /a          7,600       -       -       -  2,000       -      -       -  2,000       -       -  (1,000)
Operating costs /a    7,155  7,155  7,155  7,155  7,155  7,155  7,155  7,155  7,155  7,155  7,155   7,155                   C
Debt service /d                                                                                                             0
Interest /e             360    339    326    283    242    203    168    135    104          75      48      23
Principal 7f              -      -    482    464    446    463    413    398    383  1,103    354           341
Subtotal           15,115  7,515  8,047  8,011  9,843  7,821  7,736  7,688  9,642  8,333  7,557   6,519
Net Cash Flow /g        94  2,375    359    394        -  1,005       -       -      -       _       -     177
/a  From Annex 9, Table 1.
/b  95% of cost of hull and engine.
/c  Own resources up to P 1,000/period: traditional sources (borrowing at zero interest from relatives,
friends or suppliers, 1-year term) cover any cash deficits over P 1,000/period. Regular nonfishing
income sources are excluded except when needed to cover investment costs or periodic fishing enterprise
deficits. About 70% of fishing households have nonfishing income.
/d Payments beginning with period 2 are deflated at the rate of 8.5% p.a. in the first year and 8.0% p.a.
thereafter, to adjust them to constant period 1 pesos.
/e 14% p.a., paid semiannually at 6.77% of unpaid beginning-of-semester balance.
/f Six year to repay, including one year of grace. Repayments for periods 6, 10 and 12 include payments to
traditional creditors of P 149, P 953 and P 63, respectively.
/g  The fishing enterprise cash deficits found in later periods illustrate one reason for widespread defaults    a
in past municipal fisherman credit programs.  Requiring that fishermen using project credit sell their
catch through the corporation would result in large cash surpluses for all 12 periods.



PHILIPPINES
.ATIONAL FISHERfES DEVELOPMENT PROJECf
A- Dl-l.p .. I S.bP-J-1
C..h Fl.. ..d Fi.-t.l A-lyi
000)
1            2             3             4             5           6            7            9            9           10                        II           13           14           is           16           17           is           19           20
C-h I.fl-
Ft.h ..1..  I.                                                                                    2,874    19,021    34,790            51,826    58,957    60,088    60,088    60,088    60,088    60,088    60,088    60,088    60,08$    60,088    60,088    60,088    60,088
I-    -1-    fb                                                                                       56          373          693       1,017        1,157        1,179        1,179        1,179        1,179        1,179        1,179        1,179        1,179        1,179        1,09         1,179        1,179
C.Id   t ... g.  t..t.1 I.                                                                           43          115          120          120          120          120          120          120          120          120          120          120          120          120          120          120          120
F..I ..1-    /d                                                                                      480       3,186        4,557        5,482        5,893        5,971        5,971        5,971        5,971        5,971        5,971        5,971        5,971        5,971        5,971        5,971        5,971
Fi                                                                                                   120          489          916       1,365        1,630        1,670        1,670        1,670        1,670        1,670        1,670        1,670        1,670        1,670        1,670        1,670        1,670
F hig lq.ipl.t ..I..
C-h(3ol)                                                                                          722          619          661          718          454          494          494          494          494          494          494          494          494          494          494          494          494
L.-    (70%)    Pi..Ip.l /f                                                                         -         561       1,043        t,557        1,554        1,425        1,296        1,121        1,152        1,152        1,i52        1,152        1,152        1,152        1,152        1,152        3,013
3             5            5         5 3            37         4            4 7 9        4 4             4
I.t- t fg                                                                     23I          408)         57           6I            9           5             99                        8           48           48           484          484          484          484          484          9 8
Dlf..It.  (10%)                                                                (24)        (I0          (I 62)        222)        (215)        (196)        (180)        (160)        (164)        (t64)         164)        (164)        (164)        (164)        (164)        (164)        (395)
T-t-I ""p-l"    Rl- -                                                                              934       IH8           2,            7 A        2 386        2 260        2 09           934          966          966          966          966       L  966          966        1 966        1 966        3 q4
T... P-t -t" -                /h                                                                     47          309          565          842          958          976          976          976          976          976          976          976          976          976          976          976          976
SI.ff h.-Ig                                                                                          36           87           91           91           91           ql           91           91           91           91           91           91           91           91           91           91           91
Rl.id..l -1..  /j                                                                                       -                         -                                                   --                                     -                                      -                                      -      3,150
S.bt.t.1                                                                                        4,596    25,100    43,839    63,461    71,192                   7 2 , 3 5 5    72,204    72,029,   72,061    72,061    72,061    72,061    72,061    72,061    72,061    _L2 0_6 1    7 7_ 1 8 6
L...  /k                                                   3,172        9'(81        30,015        27,524        11,800        5,360        2,881           756             -            --                        --                        -            -            -            -            -            -
It'i Cllh  "I'll                                     3,172        9,081        30,025         32,120    16,900    44199    66,342    71,948    12,355    72,204    72,029    7_2,061    72,061    72,061    72,061    72,061    72,061    72,061    72_ 061    77,186
C..h O.Ifl..
--L                                              4,394        12:461          6:116        2                97
Si'l "                                                                                                         1:111
Boildi.gl                                                                  -        9 246         4 982           562           66
11 _hj_       -I   q, "I'll                                          1,526          5,315         4,189           994           43
C.",_         ,lll. ..    II            I....                              -          902         1,631        1,742        1,913        1,450           560
p-h... f BFARII, P_I_Pl_
.t Ctb.1.9..                                                                                   3,575              -            -            -            -
I...  ... 1,  1-    - hl- y                                                                          B96          104             -
W...g _,".1 I.                                                                                   2,3 10       2,752        1,038                                                                                                                                                                                (6,100)
Ad.t.i.t-ti-    lo.t. I.                                1,Ot2        1,271          1,291            626             -            -
Elll,,,,I,, d 'g' "                  "P"""-             2,160        1,890            810                         54              -
I.  I.,        P-M        poldh-                                                       -       2,407        2,06o        2,203        1:411           III
s.bt.t.1                                               3,172        9,081        30,025        27,524    11,800            5,360        2,881            56                                                                                                                                                     6_100)
FiO    p- h.... I.                                                                                1:333        1:123    16:131    21:117    17:3314    27:111    21:111    27:161    11:111    21,:161    21:161    27:161    11:861    27:161    27:161    17:861                                               27:811
st.ff                              /P                                                             I647         3 947        4 068        4 836        5 48         5 348        5 348        5 348        5 348           348       5 34a        5 348        5 348        5 348        5 348        5 348         5 348
T'111p,;1.11111 -I                                                                                    35          426          834       1,251        1,424        1, 451       1, 451       1, 451       1, 451       1,451        1, 451       1, 451       1,451         1, 451      1, 451        1,451        1, 451
F_'t it    p_.,i...                                                                                  529       2:311        2:146        1            2:674        2 6214       1    11      2:174        21:6274                   2:114       2    74      2:6271       2:614        1:674        1:6274       2:6274
2                         ':611                     ':7          ':62         5     ,      ':174                     5            ':62
F  l    P.    h-       I.                                                                            230          661       4  300          258       5 648              5         7 5          72           725          7            7  5         7  5         7  5         725       5 7 5        5 7 5         5 7  5
FI.h- -'   t.-    p- h- .  /t                                                                       1,4          466          872          300       1, 552       1,590        1, 59"       1, 5go       1,5 90       1,5go        1,5gf        1,590        1,590         1, 590       1,5go        1,590        1,590
0th_    ipo t P- h- - I.                                                                                            -            -         962       1,317        1,646        1,646        1,646        1,646        1,646        1,646        1,646        1,646         1, 646       1, 646       1,646        1,646
T.-         /I                                                                                        42          275          502          748          850          866          866          866          866          866          866          866          866          866          866          866          866
S.bt.,.l                                                                                         3,930      18,916    2_9,557    41,078    46,157    47,168    47,168    47,168    47,168    47,169    47,168    47,168    47,168    47,168    47,168    47,168    47,168
Dlbt S-i-
I.t.- t p. id  N                                                                                        -            -      7:9841       7:1741       1:111        5:3319       4:,114       3:2711       32:1                                                   '19          '7'                       '2'            99
Pti-ip-i P-id-7-                                                                                                               83        4 4  6       4  144          8  7      3     3      3    90         046          8 0       2:"4         1:'O'        ':I             0  3         920          7  7           46
4                                      3                                      3:131        2            2 612        2 418        2    19      2, 7         1,           1, 7           ,6
6'
S.bt.L.1 p.id                                                                                                            12815    11,625    _10,412              9,176        8,067       _7,071        6,179        5,380        4,665    54,027           3,458        2,951        2,500       2_100         1_745
L't'i  C-h  Dolfill                                   3,172        9,081        30,025        31,454    30,716    473732    555584    5 7 , 3 2 5               56,344    15,235    54,239    53,347    52,548                                1,195    50,626          50,119    49,668    49,268    42_ 813
Net Cash Flow                                                                                      666       6  184       1,467    10,758          14,623         6,011    lh,969         17,790    118,714         19,513    20,228    20,866    21,435    21,942    22,393    22,793    34_ 373
Net Benefit                                                 (3,172)    (9,081)    (30,025)   (26,858)   (5,616)    8,922    19,502    24,279    5,187    25,036    24,861    24,893    74,893    24,893    i4,893    24,893    24= 893    24,893    24,893    36_ 118
Fi.-W -t of -t-- 19%
I.   M.ld   n -p-t.d  '-b .. of .....   ..... g  "    "'P,"   I,, :nnl -                           ... .. th.pl,'b-d,1t. Ill  P.-J.-  t fil.  fol d.t.il.
7-b   20%   f - p- ti..  I..   ..g., .1   Ilh 7.5%  1.  fi.b. tl.    d  12.52  'o                                El    -    .     od      - ity -n- pti.n, ph::i,,                              11.1   ol-' 'h-dIld  by  -tpo '-'io--    S-l                    J-1  fill  f.,  ph..i.g.
P10 Ilon-d,y    .... g:121.100.1 ......  p-    y..   t  f.11 d- l,                                        b-od           ... Ih of 't ... . ..... i'Y' y                 4            I.   _    I-.1
7d   P 4 "I't' t: 1.  Ii                        I/d.  ;e.11,10 1,y,ly,.,,; - bl' .f                     PY4  t.  f.11 d.-I.p .. t (' Y9):    110, 365, 522    628                          684,         y      d.y. .f ...   110-td  to 114.
7e   - ;.1 ..  plil.  'It.d, 1-hing,y                       , ,t.),    d '11 -,k,p                     - 1; t-tl  p-,-11- 1 1. ...b-    of fi.hl;..                                     t.    -'P.1-19ion-
/f   141   ...   .   n,.id blgi..1.g-.f-yl-    b.1...l.    '.l '..ti.   old   t - t.
hj  P,i-ip.l of i.,.t-..pply  I.-                    I.   lp.id  I.   q..l                       .-         .  f- -y-         p-i.d,   ilh   nl y-          f g--           olt..It -tl  I . ...... d  t.  bl  10%.
""'d  .   ......   ...   ......  .                   '    n    'nb  'Id  -Y.g.. of -           i-    - .ll.  ft..  P .... g-    ..d  ".- I - g., pl.. b.,kh..I. f i...l.td  tt-k. -t- i.g  fto. 4..il. ..d T-I.b...    Dlt.11.                                                          I. p-j-  t fill.
'h..Ig 1. b...d fih -I!."1.nd"1ld'by' -%po-ti...
/I   P400/.o.th/-it              19 -it   tfoll dl'll' P..."
I02 of i.iti.1 -l- of b.ildig., .. 'h inlty nd lq-1 -.-t.
/k   P  90,599,000, lqo.1 t.  thl totll   fI._ L_ L _ t.
7-1   S,:,.p,,J,,toltll,ff,,,d:t.,il: 'n  ph,:.Ilg   f,in ...... t"
7.   op    t g ''    '                         .d'    'tI' fi h  pot-I...   t  toll de-lo , -t
S.1-i-     nd  t-n.p-t - t.  1-     I.ff d.tin .... t- ti.. of pt'j                                 f:'i litio.
Q-1111y b-11 on  p, ..i.g   h.-    J  pl.j..t  fit.; pti-                           p.id  t.  11:'hlt-         10%   b-l  th-                          i  thl Y..,   P '.  thl ti-    of   Ppt.I..I.   1-1.dl. 2% .11 ....                         f-     p.il.g., dtip l....
Zp   D. t.l    tlIn  P_  jl 11 !ill.
F1'1j'12.,,;,!l ..... :,l.    d Iii,   1,1'1%t- k,   t foil d- l,-t; ph..Ing  I.  b...d ..  fi.h -Io-    -tk.L.d.   D.t.il. -                                                   i pl.jl
    it.  flil    i:.   .'                                                                                                                                           't  f":.                                             fil.  f-    d.t.il..
d                                                lh    1,  ,  ,It    ... .. d"P""   11:h 1,,Il,,pl .....                                        -,kl                       "fi"       'pp 11       od i, tip..   S-    p-j-L
o
7.   F-    fi.h.t- '.  foll; P  4.65/lit-, i,8 01/,..t;_ b-    .1                                                    1. 7   .t   .,l                     t: by                     h..  I.  p-1-1  111l.
It   F' ,  ,,n ... I lop                    d,   Ithing, gll%.oto   tl  I,9011/1:..1./.-ppIi-'1  1..Ilo- n.
7.   Ii.h I." l'.'           tI'I'IldI. .....              t .II          .1 P.- t'_1 od.              _   I      h               h""' 111 -gi- , 121   lt. of gl-, 40  -1. of ..il. ..d  iggi.g, ..d -  J-     p.-    p.tt. - th P  150,000.
7v   2% of -1.. of - p ... t1-    fi.h  t ... p.tt.d by  tt-k.  A.-                          %-    po.-tii            Id  b. .'lp tld  I'.  L..   .   .tI_ 77'
11.61 P..,_     id-y ..   .p,id  b,1 ....  pl"    0.5%  p-                      lo,:i,,,    h,n,,    I   k  pt.I             Id-yl-     np.id b.l..,..    All  I. -pil.li-d ..til PY6.    Tt- -    ..d  pti-ip.1 pyl.-    -                                           di- ... t.d  -    p- -t -1.. ..i.g
,l,l' '_ of '." "'.'P.j_,Yl., I .d S.M. '... th
Pi-ip.l I. -P.id i. 20 y..,. i1h 5 y.- of gt....



- 62 -
ANNEX 1 0
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area Development Subproject
Corporation - Economic Analysis
(P'000)
Accounting                                                 Proj ect year
ratio           1          2          3           4         5          6        7        8      9-19       20
Without Project
Benefits
Fish sales /a                              0.840             -          -           -      1,241     8,212    15,018  22,372  25,450  25,938  25,938
Ice sales lb                               0.840             -          -          -          22       149        273      407      463       471      471
Cold storage rental                        0.820             -          -          -           5         14        14       14        14       14       14
Subtotal                                                   _         _            -      1,267      8,375   15,305  22,793  25,927  26,423  26,423
Operating Costs
Fish purchases /c                          0.840             -          -           -      1,105     6,810    12,190  17,989  20,463  20,856  20,856
Miscellaneous /d                           0.753             -          -           -        145     1,409      2,803   4,324    4,917    5,010    5,010
Subtotal                                                                          -      1,250      8,219   14,993  22,313  25,380  25,866  25,866
Net Benefits                                                -          -          -          17       156        312      480      545       557      57 _ 
With Project /e
Benefits
Fish sales                                 0.C40             -          -           -     2,414    15,980    29,224  43,534  49,524  50,474  50,474
Ice sales                                  0.840             -          -          -          47       313        574      854      972       990      990
Cold storage rental                        0.820             -          -           -         35         94        98       98        98       98       98
Transport services                         0.777             -          -           -         37       240        437      654       744      758      758
Housing rental                             0.820             -          -           -         30         71        75       75        75       75       75
Residual value                             0.820             -          -           -          -          -         -         -        -        -   2,583
Subtotal                                                    -        _            -      2,563   16,698   30,410  45,215  51,413  52,395  54,978
Investment Costs
Site preparation                           0.827             -    3,634       10,305       5,711     1,690         80        -         -        -        -
Buildings                                  0.827             -          -      7,647       4,120     1,292         55        -         -        -        -
Machinery and equipment                    0.865             -     1,320       4,597       3,623       860         37         -        -        -        -
Carrier vessels, fish boxes                0.890             -          -        803       1,453     1,550      1,703    1,290      498         -        -
Spare parts                                0.870             -          -          -         780        93          -        -         -        -        -
Administrative costs                   0.760-0.780/f    789           991      1,007         476          -         -        -         -        -        -
Engineering design, supervision            0.820         1,771     1,550         664           -       443
Subtotal                                               2,560      7,495      25,023     16,163    5,928       1,875    1,290       498
Operating Costs
Fish purchases                             0.840             -          -           -      1,139     7,018    12,564  18,541  21,091  21,496  21,496
Staff salaries, charges                0.700-0.760           -          -           -      1,557     2,802      2,848    3,385   3,744    3,744    3,744
Transport costs                            0.777              -         -           -         61       364        654      972   1,106   1,127   1,127
Facility operations                        0.830             -          -           -        848     2,203      2,444    2,230    2,219   2,219   2,219
Subtotal                                                    -          -          -      3,605    12,387    18,510  25,128  28,160  28,586  28,586
Net Benefits                                           (2,560)  (7,495)  (25,023)  (17,205)  (1,617)  10,025  18,797  22,753  23,809  26,392
Increaentals
Benefits                                                        -         -           -      1,296     8,323    15,105  22,422  25,486  25,972  28,555
Investment costs                                           2,560      7,495     25,023      16,163     5,928      1,875    1,290       498        -         -
Operating costs                                                 -         -           -      2,355     4,168      3,517    2,815    2,780    2,720    2,720
Net Benefits                                           (2,560)  (7,495)  (25,023)  (17,222)  (1,773)   9,713  18,317  22,208  23,252  25,835
Economic Rate of Return:  24%
/a  Incremental benefits are computed assuming project fishermen increase their catch by about 240 MT/yr, reduce spoilage losses and
benefit from corporation marketing. Hence, the model compares the costs and benefits of a nearly equal catch volume in each year,
which is zero in the first three years. See project file for details.
/b  Ice sales and cold storage rental would come from the Catbalogan complex currently under construction.
/c  Based on weighted average fishermen's price of about P 3.158/kg.
/d  Primarily labor costs and transport costs.
/e  Based on Annex 10, Table 1, with fuel and equipment sales removed from benefits, the BFAR Catbalogan complex, working capital and
equipment purchase removed from investment costs, and fuel and equipment purchases and taxes removed from operating costs.
/f As the proportion of semiskilled and unskilled staff rises, the accounting ratio falls. In the first 4 years, it is 0.78, 0.78, 0.76,
0.71; from year 5 on, it is 0.70.  The ratios for skilled, semiskilled and unskilled staff are 0.82, 0.65 and 0.48, respectively.



- 63 -
ANNEX 11
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Quarter ending        Disbursements              Cumulative
1982
Sept. 30, 1982               0.5                     0.5
Dec.  31, 1982               0.1                     0.6
1983
March 31, 1983               0.1                     0.7
June  30, 1983               0.4                     1.1
Sept. 30, 1983               0.3                     1.4
Dec.  31, 1983               0.5                     1.9
1984
March 31, 1984               0.8                     2.7
June  30, 1984               0.8                     3.5
Sept. 30, 1984               1.1                     4.6
Dec.  31, 1984               1.0                     5.6
1985
March 31, 1985               1.1                     6.7
June  30, 1985               1.1                     7.8
Sept. 30, 1985               1.3                     9.1
Dec.  31, 1985               1.4                    10.5
1986
March 31, 1986               1.3                    11.8
June  30, 1986               1.2                    13.0
Sept. 30, 1986               1.1                    14.1
Dec.  31, 1986               0.9                    15.0
1987
March 31, 1987               0.9                    15.9
June  30, 1987               1.0                    16.9
Sept  30, 1987               0.7                    17.6
Dec   31, 1987               0.9                    18.5
1988             March 31, 1988                1.2                    19.7
June  30, 1988               0.9                    20.6
Sept  30, 1988               0.6                    21.2
Dec   31, 1988               0.4                    21.6
1989             March 31, 1989               0.4                     22.0
June  30, 1989               0.3                    22.3
Sept  30, 1989               0.1                    22.4



- 64 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Additional Documents and Data in the Project File
1. FAO/CP, Philippines National Fisheries Development Project - Preparation
Progress Report, Vols. I and II, April 29, 1980.
2. Ministry of Natural Resources, National Fisheries Development Project -
Institutional Development Project.
3.  Ministry of Natural Resources, National Fisheries Development Project -
Area Development Project.
4. University of Philippines, Institutional Development Requirements of
Major Fishery Agencies (Final Report), October 1980.
5. Presidential Decrees 704 of 1975 and 977 of 1976, and Letter of
Instruction 459 of 1976 (for the establishment of BFAR, PFMA and FIDC
and delineation of their respective roles).
6. BFAR, Updated Index to Presidential Decrees on Fisheries. January 1979.



- 65 -.
ANNEX 12
Page 2
7. BFAR, Relevant Laws on Municipal Fisheries
8. PFMA, Annual Report 1979
9. FIDC, Ten-Year Fisheries Development Plan, 1978-87
Working Papers
10.  Area Production and Rarketing - background
11.  Project Fish Sales by Market, Month and Fish Class
12.  Project Fish by Source, Destination, Month and Fish Class
13. Project Fish Purchasing Costs by Source, Season and Fish Class
14. Development of Fish Supply to the Corporation
15. Fishing Equipment Sales of the Corporation
16. Assumptions on Transport Services Revenue
17.  Phasing of Plant Investments
18. Phasing of Carrier Vessel and Fish box Investments
19. Phasing of Corporation Personnel Costs
20. Corporation Transport Operations Costs
21. Shore Facility Operations Costs
22. Corporation - Economic Analysis
23. New Pumpboat - Economic Analysis
24. Sail-Assisted Pumpboat - Cash Flow and Financial Analysis
25. New Pumpboat Cash Flows (non-incremental)
26. New Pumpboat Financial Analysis (no investment subsidy)



PHI LIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENIN                                                                          B l\  >   0 U T R I    E    i     j    iTRNREADTH
0'
/  /      XA~TYS
SIDE VIEW                                                   /      MS 
HULL FRAMING                                      /X\                                              ENGINE COVERSTEIGPT                                             5
9                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATFIN
|-K                                                       -                           OVFRALL I-lNGOTI I                                                  PROPEIILR
Pump Boat (Traditional Fishing Banca with Engine)                                         Large Pump Boat (Traditional Carrier with Engine)
Specification                                                                             Specification
Material:        Local Wood                                                               Material:         Local Wood
O-rall Length:   About 9.14 tnnterr-                                                      Oerall Length.   About 19.51 meters
Breadth:         About 0.81 meters                                                        Bteadth:         About 1.83 meters
Depth:           About 0.81 meters                                                        Depth:           About 2.13 mteters
Engine:          About 16 hp, garoli-re                                                   Engine:          About 120 hp, diesel
hand starting, air-co-ling                                              Mac, Speed:       About 12 bnets
Cargo Capacity:  About 10 rues
Communicatin-s: SSB Radio Telephone
Note: Traditional fishing banca and traditonal cargo carrier are basically  Note:  Traditional fishing banca and traditional cargo carrier are basically of
similar design and type. In the Philipines, there are an-ua                similar design. There are, however, various modifications of shape,
modifications of shape, design, construction of bancas in the              desigtn, and construction of bancas operating in diflerent waters.
different waters.                                                          Fish carrier trust race wooden plank deck with at least one opening
to be coveted with hatch, in order to load altd unload fish and ice.
Inside of fish bold ,r51 la insulatedr with ryothetic material             World Bank- 22247



IBRD 15436
DECEMBER 1980
1  RECEIVING
2 ICE PLANT
3   ICE STORE
4 CHILL ROOM
5   MACHINERY
6 ICE/CHILL ROOM EXPANSION
7 OFFICE
8   FUEL STORAGE
9   RESTROOM  FACILITIES
10   STORE
':t                          ~~~~~~XISTING PIER
'",2 .... .-.--  :      .:(DECK TO BE REPAIRED BY PHILIPPINE
PORT AUTHORITY)
This map has been prepared by the
World Bank's staff exclusively for
the convenience of the readers of
the report to which it is attached.
The denominations used and the
boundaries shown on this map
do not imply, on the part of the
World Baok and its affiliates, any
judgment on Ihe legal status of
any terntory or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
1 218
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-, z  ,4                                                               CATA INGAN
PROPOSED
gCATMWA11                                                                                PROJECT AREA
STRUCTURES
STONE RIP-RAP
FATHOM LINES
EXISTING
0         10          20                                CAUSEWAY
120"            124                   METERS                                                             RIP-RAP






IBRD 15437
X'                                               <                                           DECEMBER 1980
1   RECEIVING
2   AUCTION/DEALERS
3 OFFICE
4   FUEL STORAGE
5   RESTROOM FACILITIES
6   STORE                                             \\\\\\\  XARE CURRENTLY BEING DEVELOPED BY B.F.A.R. AS                                            O
12S      T      A F  F   HO   US   I  N  G  \  <  \  ', 0  14TPD. TUBE ICE PLANT
180  0                                                                                          P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0TN C   T R OPSE
2TP,PLT         PREZROETA A
\\X\\\\ \ ~~~~~~50 TON COLD STORE\
\\\X\\\ \ ~~~~~FACILITIES TO BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR PROJECT 
STEFE; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~TUCUE
STON    RI-RA
C .T 5 A L - C ALN
-''.  Worl Banks s'aff exc,usivelyfor
1200            124"    0                                                                                      PROPOSEo
S           [           1 ~~~PROJECT AREA
' ~~~~~STR UCTU RES
u. ~~~~~STONE RIP-RAP
-14                                   14 ':                                                                                  FATHOM LINES
CATBALOGAN 1
This map has been prepared by the
10c    World Bank s staff exclusively for
.                               ~~~~~~~~~~~the convenience of the readers of                   
the report to which it is attached.{ 
The denominations used and the\l
boundaries shown on this map\ 
do not irn4ply, on the part of the\
World Bank atnd its affiliates, any                                  0          10          20
judgment on the legal status of                             METERS 
any terntory or any endorsement                           M
120       ~~1214            or acceptance ofsuch boundaries.\






IBRD 15438
-18  120      1i40       is   This map has been prepared by the                                                                  NOVEMBER 1980
World Bank's staff exclusively for
the convenience of the readers of
the report to which it is attached.
The denominations used and the
boundaries shown on this map
do not imply, on the part of the
World Bank and its affiliates, any
o40                      -           o  judgment on the legal status of
any territory or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
~MIAGA
1 ~o0           124~
CATTL   RA H AL     JETY
A % 1 R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~E C EIV IN G
COCONUT PLANTATION ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~2IC PAN
:. 3   IC      E STORE
\ \ - F ~~~~~~~~~~~~4   CHILL ROOM
\ %;-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~5   MACHINERY
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ICE/CHILL ROOM EXPANSION
< ( ~~~~~~~~~~8   FUEL STORAGE
.  9   RESTROOM FACILITIES
0  1    010   STORE
MET S11  STAFF HOUSING
CATTLE RANCH AND              \ 
COCONUT PLANTATION                 \          ,
9  t;;;s                             ~~~~~~PHILIPPINES
\    vf            ~NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
. I         \         G                                           ~~~~~~~~~~MIAGA
_              \       sz                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED
J                \                                      t           | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA
\ ~~~~~~~~STRUCTURES
l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STONE RIP-RAP
FATHOM LINES
0          l0         20
METERS L                         I   






IBRD 15439
1200             1240                                                      -                                                               JANUARY 1981
l j
-18                                                                   f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
PLACEGF
oq- 
12~00            12,4
PLACER
0
'PROJECT
MASBATE ISLAND
GU IN AWAYAN
ISLAND
REEFS
LOCATION PLAN
0             5             10
I ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
KILOMETERS
This map has been prepared by the
World Bank 's staff exclusively for
the convenience of the readers of
the report to which it is attached.
The denominations used and the
boundaries shown on this map                                                                     HARF
do not imply, on the part of the
World Bank and its affiliates, any
judgment on the legal status of
any territory or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GENERAL LAYOUT
PLACER
PROPOSED
I I XPROJECT AREA
STONE RIP-RAP
FATHOM LINES
METERS                  50      1     10\0






I BRD 15440
DECEMBER 1980
1   RECEIVING
2 ICE PLANT
3   ICE STORE
5   MACHINERY                                                                                12
6   ICE/CHILL ROOM EXPANSION
7   OFFICE
8 FUEL STORAGE
9   RESTROOM  FACILITIES                                                                     I
10   STORE
11  STAFF HOUSING
12 PARKING
METERS                 lP          20
This map has been prepared by the
World Bank's staff exclusively for
the convenience of the readers of
the report to which it is attached.
The denominations used and the
boundaries shown on this map
do not imply, on the part of the
World Bank and its affiliates, any
judgment on the legal status of
any territory or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                   S
1200              24"
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL  FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLACER
14-
PROPOSED
E            l l  |   |PROJECT AREA
PLACER                               |                                 STRUCTURES
STONE RIP-RAP
12,0"            1240






IBRD 15441
DECEMBER 1980
EXISTING LIGHT JETTY                                                                                                                  - 
MARKET AREA
\ - 1~~ R ECEI V ING w'2*;  
.--ii.-? -- \2   INSULATED STORE<X                                          -,                                     -
<                         ~~~~~~4 STORE                                     W\    ,
.9;
NATIONAL  FISHERIES  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
+g          \  \                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~SAN  JAC INTO
PROPOSED
I       I -  |   |PROJECT AREA
__ __ _ __ _ _   STRUCTURES
-18  120  .    124        iat                                                                                 STONE RIP-RAP
-2  --   FATHOM  LINES
EXISTING
RIP-RAP
-1.1D                .. >   gx        14
SAN JACINT? 
This map has been prepared by the
World Bank s staff exclusively for
_,    _ , J    - 1 !   the convenience of the readers of
-.          .         , '_ uthe report to which it is attached.
The denominations used and the
boundaries shown on this map
do not imply, on the part of the
World Bank and its affiliates, any
judgment on the legal status of                                 0           10          20
any territory or any endorsement                     METERS            .    0          2
120             124'-7 2         or acceptance of such boundaries.






IBR0 15442
1200      .     124'             This map has been prepared by the                                                                DECEMBER 1980
-100              '               10S    World Bank's staff exclusively for
the convenience of the readers of
the report to which it is attached.
7'he denominations used and the
boundarles shown on this map
do not imply, on the part of the
World Bank and its affiliates, any
judgment on the legal status of
_-" *- 4     _    _-14                     ' any territory or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
SAI '1                                                                    \          :
120        ~~~~12,4'
EPS                ~~~PILED JETTY
1  RECEIVING
2  ICE PLANT
3 ICE STORE
4   CHILL ROOM
5  MACHINERY
6   ICE/CHILL ROOM EXPANSIODN
7  OFFICE
8 FUEL STORAGE
9   RESTROOM  FACILITIES
10 STORE
11  STAFF HOUSING
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SANTO NIRKO
PROPOSED
EI     I      PROJECT AREA
STRUCTURES
STONE RIP-RAP
FATHOM LINES
METERS '' -                                                                                   EXISTING
4   C OCAUSEWAY
~'' RIP-RAP






16RD  15
JANUARY I
815
ro rov,N CENTER
1l ll                       PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT
'| \  - -   PROJECT                            SHORE FACILITlES
GENERAL LAYOUT
BULAN
,______ ,______.-   PROPOSED
.m   t PROJECT AREA
STONE RiP-RAP
O     20      40                         1                                    FATHOM LINES
METERS                                        ~EITN
i,  fltP-PA   RIP-RAP
This mrphas been pepared by the
Wossd hank's staff exclasinely for
the conenmence of the readers of
The denominations used and the
bounrfafles shown on ths nnap                   I -
do oat inphr, on the part of the
Worid Baok and its affiliates. any
udurment on the legal status of                 ;
any terr'tory or any endorsement
or acceptarce of s-ch boundaries.
-18                                   2
* ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4eU1.' 
EX ISTI NG JETTY
PII.ED JETTY
100,                                            ." '''"






-7777               ~IBRD  15444
D ECEMBER 1980
_ _ ---  ---L
I~~~ H
STEPS
IRECEIVING                              8   OFFICE
2  AUCTION/RE-ICING                       9  DEALERS OFFICES
3  ICE PLANT                             10  TRUCK AND CARRIER VESSEL MAINTENANCE
4  ICE STORE                             11  FUELSTORAGE
5  CHILL ROOMS                           12  RESTROOM  FACILITIES
6  MACHINERY                             13  STORE
7  ICE/CHILL ROOM EXPANSION              14  STAFF HOUSING
15 PARKING
PHILI PPINES
NATIONAL F ISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BU LA N
PROPOSED
PROJECT AREA
STRUCTURES
This map has been prepared by the                                        STONE RIP-RAP
-                          ~~~~~~~~~~World Bank's staff exclusively for
the convenience of the readers of
the report to which it is attached.
The denominations used and the
12C                     ~~~~~~~boundaries shown on this map
do not imply, on the part of the
World Bank and its affiliates, any
judgment on the legal status of
any territory or any endorsemnent                        METERS 0             10          20
____________________________________ or acceptance   of such   boundaries.                                        






IBRD 15435
124                                                                                                                 125              NOVEMBER  1980
A Z B /Pi                                                                                                                  PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT
PROJECTS LOCAT IONS
213                  \                                                                                                              FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT AREAS                                             13
/  /1    0    N                                                                                                                   TRANS-PHILIPPINE HIGHWAY
G obat                                                        OTHER ROADS
RIVERS
e       PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
S          G /V    0                                                                                      _           PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
0               ID                20               30
MILES                                      I       I
\     KILOMETERS         10        20         30         40         50
Guindah.p 1roe/
U LAN\
S JACINT                                  Matnog                                               lap
T   \                             ,7               Allen                                                                   P-bCauayang
P ACE
120CATAINGAN2 CATL AN
This ,se h.. beet psp-od by th.
WoAd  kEt tt/ff s                                                                                                        Polan9I tsr
the -OO4-tO of the red-y of
fthe rPo to ehuhk its tthdw.
Th. d-n.ti-eto-  usd and th.
hsew  sho_s _ this s"ep
do INo 'styIY, 00 the eprtf th5
World Bat .tdtt,tl,ete. nyCaibir-
ju,dgm-tu  helgIsttSO 
8s tsr5ot er<2 osf \eodorse s)                                                                                                               /
or  -opt-u of -uh b-utdeoet.
-    INTERNATIONAL       IarEbaotng/
CHINA                    BDUNDARIES
San Isidto 0
S    PHILIPPINES     r_i ,
VIET NAM/
-~ ~ ~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               SAT  NIC 8,'/ 4 
BRfUN EI
MB INDONESIA
1240                                                                                                                 15



