Document of                    FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3299-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 30, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Peso (P = 100 centavos)
P 1.00            =   US$0.123
US$1.00           =   P 8.1
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
BFAR      - Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (of MNR)
DBP       - Development Bank of the Philippines
FIDC      - Fishery Industry Development Council (of MNR)
FRR       - Financial rate of return
GT        - Gross tons
ICB       - International competitive bidding
LCB       - Local competitive bidding
MNR       - Ministry of Natural Resources
PFDA      - Philippine Fisheries Development Authority (of MNR)
PU        - Project Unit
SEATI     - Samar Sea-Ticao Pass Fisheries Development Coporation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:      Republic of the Philippines and Samar Sea-Ticao Pass
Fisheries Development Corporation (SEATI).
Amount;           $22.4 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end
fee) ./l
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 11.60% per annum.
Relending Terms.  $12 million of the loan proceeds would be relent by the
Borrower to SEATI with the same grace and repayment
period and at the same interest rate as the Bank loan.
Interest accrued during the grace period would be
capitalized. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk and the corporation would pay a foreign
exchange risk fee. The balance of the loan would be
allocated by the Government to the Ministry of Natural
Resources for institution building.
Project
Description:    The proposed project is designed to help municipal (small-
scale) fishermen, and to improve sector management through
institution-building activities. To achieve its first
objective, the project would assist municipal fishermen
in one of the poorest regions of the Philippines (Masbate/
Ticao Pass/Western Samar) through the establishment of
marketing facilities for the efficient collection,
transport and distribution of fish, and the provision of
input supplies.  To meet the second objective, the
project would strengthen the three fisheries agencies of
the Ministry of Natural Resources - the Philippine
*                           Fisheries Development Authority (PFDA), the Bureau of
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR), and the Fishery
Industry Development Council (FIDC). Project funds would
finance (a) an area development subproject, comprising
the construction of physical facilities in seven sites,
including landing areas, jetties, ice plants, offices,
auction halls, bulk fuel storage and related facilities
/1 Front-end fee amounts to $331,034.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project            and the provision of carrier boats, vehicles and input
Description.    supplies, and (b) training programs, technical assistance
(cont'd)       and vehicles for PFDA, BFAR and FIDC.  The area development
subproject would be implemented by SEATI and operated under
private management.
The project would benefit directly about 2,500 participating
small-scale fishermen who would realize higher incomes for
their catch through better marketing, improved quality of
fish, reduced spoilage and, to some extent, increases in
productivity from the integration of input supplies with
market outlets. The strengthening of the operations of the
fisheries agencies would lead to improved policy direction
in fisheries development, better assessment and management
of fisheries resources, improved research and extension, and
more effective enforcement of fish conservation regulations.
The main risks associated with the proposed project are:
(a) the innovative approach to establishing the corporation
to implement the development subproject; (b) the present
weakness of the fisheries agencies; (c) the lack of reliable
data on existing fish resources which are believed to be
over-exploited; and (d) the sensitivity of the benefits of
the motorized fishing craft to relatively small decreases in
the price of fish. To address the first issue, the
Government has contracted with a competent private firm,
experienced in fish marketing, to manage the corporation.
To address the second issue, the project provides for a
comprehensive program to strengthen the existing
institutions. The third issue would be addressed in the
project throughi provisLons for improved fishery resource
surveys, marine studies and strengthening of the marine
enforcement and conservation capabilities of BFAR to ensure
a more orderly exploitation of resources. Historically,
revenue from fish sales has increased more than inflation
and the risk associated with price sensitivity is not
expected to be great. In addition, motorized crafts are a
small component, and returns to the corporation are much
less sensitive to changes in revenues. Although the risks
associated with the project are high, Bank support is
justified because of the extreme poverty of the project
beneficiaries; in addition, municipal fishermen have so far
received little effective assistance from the Government.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                                           Foreign   Local   Total
…---- ($ million)   =
Area Development                   4.6       8.4    13.0
BFAR                               3.8       1.6     5.4
PFDA                               1.4      0.5      1.9
FIDC                               0.7      0.3      1.0
Studies by MNR                       -      0.5      0.5
Total Base Cost Estimate        10.5     11.3    21.8
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Physical Contingency               0.6      0.8      1.4
Expected Price Increases           5.4      8.0    13.4
Total Cost /1                   16.5     20.1    36.6
Front-end fee                      0.4        -      0.4
Total Financing
Requirements                 16.9      20.1    37.0
Financing Plan:                                          Foreign   Local   Total
-    ($ million)…
IBRD                           16.5       5.5    22.0
Government/PFDA                    -     14.3    14.3
Private Participant                -      0.2      0.2
Subborrowers                      -       0.1      0.1
Total                        16.5      20.1    36.6
Front-end fee                     .4      -         .4
Total Financing
Requirements               16.9      20.1    37.0
Estimated
Disbursements;  Bank FY    FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90
--------------- ($ million ) ---------------
Annual       1.1   2.4   4.3   5.2   3.9   3.7   1.7   0.1
Cumulative  1.1   3.5   7.8  13.0  16.9  20.6  22.3  22.4
Economic Rate of Return:  24% and 36% for the area development corporation
and motorized fishing boats, respectively.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 3387-PH, dated April 19, 1982.
/1 Total costs include identifiable taxes of about $350,000.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $22.4 million
to help finance a national fisheries development project. The loan, which
includes a capitalized front-end fee of 1.5% on the Bank loan, would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.60% per
annum. Part of the loan proceeds, $12 million, would be relent by the
Government to a fisheries corporation at the same interest rate and over the
same grace and repayment periods as the Bank loan. The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk, and the corporation would pay a foreign exchange
risk fee to the Government. The balance of the loan would be allocated by the
Government to the Ministry of Natural Resources for the institution-building
component.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Domestic and
External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was distributed to the
Executive Directors under SecM79-822, dated November 16, 1979. A special
report, "Aspects of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment"
(No. 2984-PH), was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1,
1980 under SecM80-919. An economic mission visited the Philippines in
September 1981 and is now preparing its report./2 Country data are given in
Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, economic performance improved considerably,
raising the trend GNP growth rate to 6% at the end of the decade. The ratio
of fixed investment to GNP rose from 16% to 25% during this period. Half of
this increase was in the public sector; the ratio of public fixed investment
to GNP rose from 1.5% to 6.5% during the decade, reflecting substantially
expanded revenues and improved implementation capacity. Export growth was
accelerated, particularly in nontraditional manufactures, while growth in
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Textile Sector Restructuring Project which
was approved by the Executive Directors on April 20, 1982.
/2 Expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors in May, 1982.



imports of oil and consumer goods was restrained. Overall, expansion in
agricultural production was quite rapid, and rice deficits were eliminated in
the second half of the decade. Population growth slowed in the 1970s.
However, the economy still has a number of structural problems. Most
importantly, the efficiency of investment has been low, particularly in
manufacturing industry producing for the domestic market; industrial
employment has not expanded rapidly enough; and poverty is still widespread.
4.        The economy's structural problems are reflected in its balance of
payments. Improvements achieved in the early 1970s were more than offset
by a sharp deterioration of the Philippines' terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the oil price increases, accelerated international inflation,
and depressed prices for major export commodities. Consequently, the
Philippines has had to rely heavily on foreign borrowings to finance the
imports needed to maintain growth and investment levels. To hold the
external deficit at a sustainable level in the coming years, additional
structural adjustments in the balance of payments will have to be achieved,
primarily through reduced dependence on imported oil, increased efficiency
of investment, and improved performance of the industrial sector.
Development Strategy
5.        The Government's Development Plan for 1978-82 has as objectives the
rapid expansion of productive employment; improvements in economic, social and
regional equity; and provision for the basic needs of the population. The
agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, crop diversification, and
stronger linkages with processing industries. The industrial strategy calls
for promotion of export industries, development of small- and medium-scale
industries, regional dispersion of industrial growth, increased efficiency
of investment, and selected large-scale projects. The Plan includes social
development targets in education, housing, health, and family planning. In
addition, the Plan outlines development strategies for each of the country's
13 regions. A recently completed Food and Nutrition Plan, which complements
the Development Plan, aims at eliminating malnutrition by 1990 through
increased food production and nutrition programs.
6.        The Development Plan elaborates the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years and is broadly in line with the Bank's
assessment of the country's development priorities. In view of changes in
the international economy, the Government has, in 1980, adjusted the Plan
and revised the growth targets downwards.  A Development Plan for 1983-87
is now under preparation.
Macro Issues for the 1980s
7.        As noted above, the Philippines faces several fundamental long-
standing development problems which will need increased attention during the
1980s. The four most important of these are reduction of population growth,
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and increased efficiency of
investment.



- 3 -
8.        Population Growth.  The Philippines has achieved an impressive
reduction in population growth from 3% in 1970 to about 2.4% in 1980./l
Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still straining available land
resources, aggravating already serious employment and poverty problems, and
burdening the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services. Further reduction of population growth is, therefore, vital for
thc. country's development. The Philippines has an active family planning
pzc:gram which has expanded rapidly during the 1970s. However, participation
in the family planning program is still low by East Asian standards, and the
number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced the
increasingly difficult problem of extending into rural areas.
9.        Poverty Alleviation.  Despite satisfactory economic growth during
the 1970s, the incidence of poverty remains high at 40-45%. Income distri-
bution continues to be very skewed, and a small elite is conspicuously
wealthy. Regional disparities remain pronounced, with the incidence of
poverty reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
people, especially in the rural areas, which account for about 80% of the
poor, still suffer from malnutrition and lack safe water, basic education
and health facilities. An increasingly unfavorable man/land ratio, the
resulting expansion of cultivation into marginal lands, limited employment
opportunities in the industrial sector, and the sharp deterioration in the
external terms of trade have put downward pressure on real incomes.
Although the Government instituted several programs during the 1970s that
should directly improve the lives of the poor, most of these were
implemented on a large scale only toward the end of the decade, and will
require several years to achieve a marked impact. Key steps needed to
alleviate poverty will be the development of rainfed agriculture, more
balanced regional development, rapid expansion of manufacturing employment,
continued improvement in basic public services, and further reduction of
population growth.
10.       Employment Generation.  Growth of productive employment, partic-
ularly in the industrial sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the
labor force, and considerable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the
agriculture and service sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion
of new entrants to the labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the
first half of the decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as labor-
intensive export production grew. Overseas employment, especially in the
Middle East, increased rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity. As
the absorptive capacity of the agricultural sector is limited, employment
generation in manufacturing will have to increase considerably in the 1980s.
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the data in Annex I.



- 4 -
11.       Efficiency of Investment.  While private and public investment rose
sharply during the last decade and have reached reasonable levels, the
accompanying expansion of the economy's real output has been relatively low.
In addition, the low rate of industrial job creation indicates that, on
average, investment has not been labor-intensive enough. The low efficiency
and low labor-intensity of investment have been caused by the distortive
effects of past trade, industrial, and financial policies on the allocation of
capital. In view of tight resource constraints to be faced in the 1980s, the
efficiency and labor-intensity of investment will be critical determinants of
future growth in output and employment.
Sectoral Issues
12.       The Philippines' macro-economic performance reflects achievements
and problems at the sectoral level. The more important of these are
summarized below for the agricultural, industrial, and energy sectors.
13.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation among subsectors, the trend growth rate of the
agriculture, fishery, and forestry sector was about 5% during the 1970s,
which is quite high by international standards. The Philippines, once a
chronic importer of rice, began to export modest quantities in 1977, and
rice self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. Production of fish and
nontraditional export crops, such as bananas and coffee, has also expanded
rapidly. However, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is of
critical importance for raising the incomes of the rural poor, has lagged
behind. Technologies to increase yields of corn have been developed only
recently, while multiple cropping systems are still at an early stage of
development. Productivity in the important coconut export sector remains low
because the recently introduced program to replace overage trees has not yet
attained rapid progress. Furthermore, population pressure on the arable land
is steadily increasing, and soil erosion in hilly areas that have been logged
over or settled is a serious problem.
14.       The Government has provided substantial support for rural develop-
ment. Agricultural production has benefitted from the introduction of high-
yielding varieties, improved credit, extension, and irrigation programs.
Rural infrastructure programs in water supply, electrification and health
services have also been expanded significantly. An agrarian reform of rice
and corn land, instituted in 1972, is well advanced.
15.       While these programs have achieved considerable improvements, the
gains have been uneven among regions, crops, and farming systems. Difficult
issues remain to be addressed if the living conditions of the rural poor are
to be improved. Solutions to the interrelated problems of low incomes and
poor soils in marginal settlements will require the development of tree
cropping and mixed farming technologies, resolution of land tenure
questions, and substantial upgrading of the administrative capability of the
agencies concerned. Steps are also needed to reduce poverty among subsistence
fishermen, coconut farmers, and sugar cane workers.



- 5 -
16.       Industry.  Although industrial and trade policies were improved in
the early 1970s, manufacturing industry grew only at about the same rate as
GDP, and its growth pattern remained unsatisfactory during the decade.
Excessive protection and artificially low cost of capital have led to low
efficiency of investment and stagnation of manufacturing employment in
industries producing for the domestic market. The introduction of export
promotion measures in the early 1970s led to extremely rapid growth in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, which rose from about $50 million in
1970 to $2.1 billion in 1980. Nontraditional manufactures now account for
over one-third of the country's total exports. However, the export expansion
has been concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with the rest of
the economy have been limited due to the high cost and low quality of domes-
tic inputs. Consequently, nontraditional manufacturing export industries
have developed as an outward-looking enclave in an otherwise heavily
protected economy.
17.       The objectives of the Government's industrial policy are to
accelerate growth of output and employment, sustain the high growth of manu-
factured exports, reduce import dependence of domestic industry, improve the
efficiency of investment, and promote industrial development outside the
Manila area. Since industries producing for the domestic market still
account for more than 80% of manufacturing investment, output, and employ-
ment, restructuring of home industries as well as continued export expansion
are needed to achieve these objectives. In 1979, the Government initiated a
series of fundamental policy reforms designed to improve the performance of
the industrial sector. The first phase of the reform program, which is
currently being implemented, focuses on reducing protection through tariff
reform and liberalization of import licensing as well as strengthening
export promotion. The Government is preparing a second phase of reforms
that will address shortcomings in the industrial incentives and promotion
system.
18.       Energy.  Another sector critical for the success of the Philippines'
structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the 1973-74 oil
price increase, the Philippines has made a considerable effort to reduce its
dependence on imported oil. The Government has not only passed on oil price
increases to consumers, but it has also increased taxes and levies on oil
products with the result that domestic oil prices are considerably above
import parity. These price increases combined with direct conservation
measures resulted in a reduction of commercial energy consumption in 1980 and
in 1981. Steps to increase and diversify domestic energy supply have also
continued and include development of hydroelectric, geothermal, coal, and
nuclear energy. Limited domestic petroleum production also began in 1979.
However, due to the long gestation period of energy projects, domestic energy
production still constituted only 17% of total commercial energy consumption
in 1980. In response to the "second oil crisis", the Government is
accelerating its program for domestic energy production but further taxing and
pricing initiatives will also be needed to restrain demand.



- 6 -
Domestic Resource Mobilization and Allocation
19.        Domestic Savings and the Financial Sector.  During the 1970s, gross
national savings expanded considerably, reaching 22.5% of GNP and financing
about 80% of total investment. However, the savings ratio needs to rise by
another 2-3% of GNP in order to maintain investment levels while simultan-
eously limiting the current account deficit and the country-s reliance on
foreign savings. In addition, interest rates and other financial incentives
affecting the labor-intensity and efficiency of investment, the flexibility
and competitiveness of the financial system, and the maturity of lending all
needed to be increased. Hence, in 1980-81 the Government introduced a
comprehensive set of financial reforms. Interest rates are being substan-
tially decontrolled, and revised monetary, fiscal, and rediscount policies are
being introduced. Legislation to encourage multipurpose banking has also been
adopted to reduce the present excessive specialization and fragmentation of
the financial system and to increase competition.
20.        Public Finance.  During the 1970s, the Government raised the overall
level of public expenditures by 5% of GNP and increased the shares going to
economic services and investment. At the end of the decade, total government
expenditures had reached 18% of GNP, with public investment equalling 6.5% of
GNP. The expansion of public expenditures has made possible improvements in
basic infrastructure, particularly in transportation, power and irrigation, as
well as expanded programs in urban development, health and family planning.
At present, the size of the public investment program is appropriate, and its
composition is, with a few exceptions, broadly consistent with the country-s
development priorities.
21.        In the last few years, however, public investment has been cons-
trained by the availability of resources, outdated contracting regulations
and rigid budget execution procedures which were introduced in anticipation
of a tight revenue situation. Problems were particularly acute during the
period of high inflation in 1979 and 1980, and they caused the Government
actually to underspend its capital budget. As resource constraints are likely
to remain tight during the 1980s, further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources
on the highest priority projects.
22.        The rapid expansion of public expenditures has been made possible by
a program of systematic tax reform. The proportion of revenue coming from
domestic taxes has been raised through increases in indirect taxes and
improved collection, thus reducing dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade. The tax ratio was raised by three percentage points to
13.3% of GNP during the decade, but has remained about constant in the last
few years. Continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by the Government
and government corporations, will be necessary to finance further expansion in
infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms are needed to raise
the elasticity of the revenue system, to improve its equity by increasing the
proportLon of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to eliminate remaining
distortions in economic incentives.



-7-
Balance of Payments Adjustment and External Capital Requirements
23.       The 1979-80 oil price increase has considerably tightened the long-
term balance of payments constraints for the Philippines. The share of
oil in total merchandise imports increased from 12% in the early 1970s to 29%
in 1980. The current account deficit widened to $2.1 billion in 1980,
equivalent to 5.8% of GNP. If growth and investment rates are to be
maintained, accelerated structural adjustments in the economy and the balance
of payments have become essential to hold the external deficit at a
sustainable level. Considerable reforms have already been introduced with
respect to trade, industrial, and financial policies (see paras. 17 and 19),
and improvements are under consideration in energy policy. Additional policy
measures will be needed in these areas as well as resource mobilization and
investment programming. Implementation of necessary adjustment measures
should make it possible to sustain economic growth at 6.0-6.5%, mainly through
improved performance of the industrial sector. However, policy measures will
require a number of years to effect the needed structural improvement in the
balance of payments. The current account deficit, therefore, is expected to
remain in the range of $2.0-2.5 billion annually during the first half of the
1980s, while declining in relative terms to about 4% of GNP by the mid-1980s.
24.        The Philippines raised its external borrowing sharply to finance the
balance of payments deficits incurred after the 1973-74 oil price increase.
During the second half of the 1970s, net disbursements from medium- and long-
term loans doubled to $1.2 billion in 1980 and the debt service ratio stood at
20% in 1981. Substantial additional foreign capital will be needed during the
period of adjustment to the 1979-80 oil price increase, and net disbursements
from medium- and long-term loans will have to double again in the next five
years.  If the Philippines can sustain the strong export performance of the
recent past, the debt service ratio would remain at about 20%.
25.        Official sources are expected to provide about 43% of the
Philippines' gross external capital in the early 1980s. The last Consultative
Group Meeting, held in January 1981, agreed that it would be reasonable for
the Philippines to seek official development assistance (ODA) of about
$1.2 billion during 1981, a slight increase over the ODA commitments it
received in 1980.
26.       As noted above, progress has been made in domestic resource
mobilization. However, because the deterioration in the terms of trade has
increased the Philippines' external financing requirements, and many projects
planned for ODA have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary resource
transfer can be achieved only through some financing of local costs of
projects and non-project lending.



- 8-
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
27.       As of March 31, 1982 the Philippines had received 78 Bank loans (of
which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,967.55 million and six
IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled $143.8
million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and outstanding
is currently about 11%, and its share in total debt service is about 8%.
These ratios are expected to be about 18% and 12%, respectively, by 1985.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1982 as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.       The volume of World Bank lending to the Philippines has increased
substantially from an average of about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an
average of $420 million in FY77-81. Although the Bank has financed projects
in virtually all sectors of the economy, particular emphasis has been given to
agriculture, which has accounted for more than one-third of total Bank/IDA
lending. Another fifth of Bank lending has been for the transportation sec-
tor. Lending for power, industry, and social sectors followed in declining
order of size. The sectoral allocation of Bank lending remained fairly stable
throughout the 1970s. Pronounced changes took place only within infrastruc-
ture as lending for transportation and power declined in the second half of
the 1970s, while lending for water supply and urban development was initiated
during this period.
29.       Within sectors, however, considerable changes have taken place in
Bank lending. In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the
irrigation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice
production. More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for treecrops, livestock, and fisheries, and to
assist low-income areas through integrated rural development projects.  In the
industrial and financial sectors, the Bank initially concentrated on streng-
thening individual development finance institutions and on providing for the
credit needs of small and medium industries.  In the last two years, however,
industrial and financial lending has been broadened to support the implemen-
tation of needed policy reforms. A structural adjustment loan was made in
September 1980 in support of trade and industrial reforms. Improvements in
financial sector policies were the basis for the May 1981 Industrial Finance
Loan, which also introduced a new institutional concept to broaden the reach
of Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex unit in the Central
Bank.
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President-s Report for the Textile Sector Restructuring Project, which was
approved by the Executive Directors on April 20, 1982.



- 9 -
30.       While overall implementation ot bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than antici-
pated.  Disbursement performance is somewhat below average 'or the region and
has shown a slowly deteriorating trend over the past few years.  Implementa-
tion problems increased in the later 197Us, reflecting, in part,
administrative problems caused by high inflation and tight budget constraints
(para. 21). They also result from the changes in the scope of thle Bank's
lending operations; a substantial increase in the number of projects, new
areas of lending, an emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach
specific target groups and deprived regions have all made implementation a
more demanding task than in the past.  The first project implementation review
was held in May 1980, at which time, among other issues, the relatively poor
disbursement performance was discussed. Steps were subsequently taken to
correct some of the administrative problems which were discussed with the
Government during the review. A second review, held in February 1982,
provided a useful follow-up and exchange of views on problems still being
experienced in project implementation and loan disbursement. During this
review, the Government and the Bank agreed that similar reviews would be held
in future on a regular basis.
31.       The Bank's future lending program has been designed to assist in
achieving the major objectives of the Government's Development Plan (para. 5).
Particular emphasis is being given to supporting poverty alLeviation efforts
and to bringing about needed structural adjustments in the economy. Economic
and sector work is being closely integrated with lending operations. Future
project, sector, and structural adjustment loans will be designed to address
the wide variety of technical, institutional, and policy issues facing the
Philippines. Additional structural adjustment loans are planned to support
further reforms in trade, industry, and other key policy areas.  In sectoral
terms, agriculture and rural development will continue to account for the
largest share of lending, with emphasis on food production and programs to
increase the incomes of the rural poor and rehabilitate existing cash crops.
Substantial assistance will be given to industry through further subsector
loans aimed at restructuring or developing specific subsectors; through
increased financial and technical assistance to small and medium industries,
particularly outside the Metro-Manila area; and through continued industrial
finance projects utilizing the recently introduced "apex" concept. Increased
effort is also planned over the next several years to develop domestic energy
resources and to strengthen the institutions responsible for developing and
managing energy supplies. The Bank's support for projects in education,
health, family planning, water supply, and urban development will aim at
improving basic services and supporting employment creation, particularly in
less advanced areas of the country.
32.       This Ls the fourth loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for communal irrigation and coal
exploration, and a third loan for small and medium industries have been
appraised and are sch.eduled for Board presentation in the coming weeks.



- 10 -
PART IllI - THE FISHERIES SECTOR
Resource Base
33.       The Philippines has a long coastline and extenisive marine and inland
waters, and is well-endowed for fish production. To date, marine operations
have been concentrated mainly on capture fishing in coastal waters, resulting
in over-exploitation of available resources in some of the areas. Comprehen-
sive data on assessment of fish stocks and their sustainable levels of produc-
tion are not available, although some work on this is under way. Present
indications are that overall marine yields are close to the maximum, except
for tuna.
34.       Nevertheless, production from marine waters can be expanded through
mariculture, which is already being practiced on a limited scale. Moreover,
marine resources can be considerably better managed with a view to sustaining
existing yields. Inland fisheries provide an even greater potential for
expanding production. There is a large area available for development, and
significant increases in yields can be achieved from existing fishponds
through improved technology and other inputs.
Production and Contribution to the Economy
35.       Fisheries production, which increased at an average annual rate of
about 5% during the 1970s, amounted to an estimated 1.6 million tons in 1979,
valued at some P 10.5 billion ($1.3 billion) or 4.8% of GNP. Most of the
fish is consumed locally, as it is a major source of animal protein in the
Filipino diet. Per capita consumption of fish was estimated at 34 kg in
1978, or 60% of all meat consumed. Exports of tuna, shrimp, squid and other
higher value species have been increasing significantly in recent years; they
amounted to about $92 million in 1979, or about 5% of total fisheries
production. In terms of quantity, imports have been well in excess of exports
during the 1970s, reflecting the rising domestic demand for fish.
36.       Marine fisheries accounted for about 80%, inland (rivers, lakes and
reservoirs) fisheries 12%, and aquaculture the remaining 8% of total produc-
tion during 1977-79. Some 500,000 municipal fishermen, 42,000 commercial
fishermen, and 194,000 people in aquaculture are engaged in fisheries produc-
tion. An additional 55,000 persons are employed in fish processing.
Municipal fishermen comprise subsistence and other small-scale producers who
fish from boats of 3 gross tons (GT) or less. Commercial fishermen are
larger-scale producers using boats of more than 3 GT who are legally required
to fisn o,l, in waters deeper than 13 m (7 fathoms) and beyond 3 km from the
coast.
37.       The contribution of municipal fishermen to total production has
been estimated at 55-60%, with commercial fishermen accounting for the
remaining 40-45%. As of 1979, there were 2,133 licensed commercial fishing
vessels. The number of fishing vessels operated by municipal fishermen has
been estimated at 186,000.



- 11 -
38.        Problems associated with poor handling and marketing facilities,
and low prices for their catch (para. 39), together with the general absence
of alternative employment, have relegated municipal fishermen to the lowest
income group in the country. Recent socio-economic surveys indicate that the
average household income of municipal fishermen was less than half the poverty
threshold income for all households in 1978. Declining availability of
sustainable fisheries resources in some of the coastal waters, owing to
overfishing and growing competition from commercial fishermen operating in
these waters, can only be expected to aggravate the problem.
Marketing
39.       Although there are more than 100 landing sites spread throughout
the provinces, the existing infrastructure and facilities in support of
marketing are inadequate. The Navotas Fishing Port and Fish Market in Manila
is the only zommercial fishing port in the country. Fisheries production by
municipal fishermen and other small-scale producers hlas been affected by
inadequate landing and marketing facilities, poor handling of fish, and
unfavorable prices received for fish sold. Lack of ice, improper methods of
fish handling, and poor insulation of the vessels result in significant
losses, mainly in terms of poor quality fish, which consequently fetch lower
prices. To avoid any significant deterioration of quality, and because of
inadequate marketing centers nearby, fishermen have no recourse but to sell
either directly to consumers or to middlemen/buyers either at sea or at their
usual landing places, often at unfavorable prices. Limited access to
high-priced urban markets as well as the lack of ice and cold storage facili-
ties also require that the catch in excess of local fresh fish consumption
demand (about 30-40% of total fisheries production) be sold for sun-drying,
salting, smoking and fermenting, for which fishermen receive lower prices.
Institutional Support
40.       The Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) is responsible for fisher-
ies development through three fisheries agencies: the Bureau of Fisheries
and Aquatic Resources (BFAR), the Philippine Fisheries Development Authority
(PFDA), and the Fishery Industry Development Council (FIDC).
41.        BFAR is the agency responsible for the formulation and enforcement
of regulations for the proper management and conservation of the fisheries
resources, including issuance of licences for fishing vessels and permits and
leases for fish ponds. In addition, BFAR is responsible for fisheries
extension and training, research and demonstration activities, preparation of
fish production programs and compilation of fisheries statistics. PFDA
establishes and manages fishing ports and provides facilities and support for
fish handling and marketi-ng. FIDC is a planning and policy-making body,
responsible for formulation and coordination of fisheries policies, inter-
agencv planning for fisheries development, preparation of the Integrated
Fisheries Development Plan, promotion of investment in the fisheries industry,
and coordination of Government and private sector efforts for fisheries
development.



- I', -
42.       The respective functions of the agencies have not been well
delineated, and this has led to duplication and overlapping of some important
programns and activities.  Other major factors which have hampered the perfor-
mance and operations of the agencies are a lack of skilled staEf, inadequate
funding by the Government and organizational problems within the agencies. As
part of the proposed project, FMNR would undertake a reorganization of its
fisheries services in order to rationalize its activities and delegate
responsibility in the field.
43.       Other important institutions supporting fisheries development
include: (a) the Development Bank of the Philippines, the Land Bank and rural
banks, which provide credit to fishermen and fish companies, and (b) researcl
and training centers comprising the Southeast Asia Fisheries Development
Center, the University of the Philippines, Central Luzon State University,
UNDP's Brackishwater Demonstration and Training Centers, the Philippine
Council for Agriculture and Resources Research, the International Center for
Living Aquatic Resources Management, and FAO's South China Sea Project.
Development Plans and Priorities
44.       The Government accords high priority to the development of
fisheries. Its objectives for the sector in the 1980s are to expand
fisheries production to meet domestic consumption needs and export demand,
improve the efficiency of fish production, distribution and utilization,
achieve proper management and conservation of the fisheries resources, and
promote and coordinate the interests of the private and public sectors to
ensure the sound development of the fisheries sector. Production is targeted
to increase annually by 5.5% to about 2 million tons a year by 1983 with
municipal fisheries contributing 50%, commercial fisheries 37%, and
aquaculture and inland fisheries the remaining 13% of the projected increase.
To increase production, municipal and other small fisheries would be assisted
through credit programs for investment in fishing boats, gear and other
fishing supplies, and aquaculture would stress yield increases with less
emphasis on expanding the Fishpond area. Yield increases would be achieved
by expanding farms for the production of fingerlings and upgrading the
quality of technical extension support.
45.       Efforts by the Government to assist fisheries to date have included
technical assistance and credit programs for the construction and equipping of
fishing vessels, the establishment of ice plants and develpment of brackish-
water ponds, aquaculture research, fisheries training, and the establishment
of the Navotas Fishing Port and Fish Market and small fish landing sites in
the provinces. These programs have been oriented towards commercial fishermen
and larger-scale fishpond operators. Measures to improve the incomes of
municipal and other small fishermen, which have hitherto not been supported by
the Bank, have been limited to credit schemes for the purchase of boats and
engines.  These schemes have had little success mainly because credit programs
did not benefit concurrently from improved extension and marketing. Many
beneficiaries considered the loans provided as government grants which need



- 13 -
not be repaid, and some of the beneficiaries reportedly were unable to sell
their catch owing to inadequate local market outlets. Small fishermen and
fishpond operators could best be assisted by projects integrating the
provision of improved landing and marketing facilities with input supplies,
including credit for their purchase, and technical extension support. This
approach, which the Government now wishes to adopt as part of its efforts to
assist small fishermen, would be incorporated in the proposed project.
46.       Major projects to be implemented over the next few years include
the establishment of a fisheries complex in North Palawan financed by the
Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Fisheries Training Project and Third
Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project (para. 49) being financed by the Bank,
and the construction of five regional fishing ports to be financed by Japan.
The Government also plans to expand and improve the facilities of the
Navotas Fishing Port, and establish an additional five regional fishing
ports, about 100 small fish landing sites and a fisheries complex in
Zamboanga during the 1980s.
47.       In order for BFAR, PFDA and FIDC to cope with their assigned
responsibilities fully and effectively, they need to be strengthened consid-
erably. High priority should be given to developing BFAR's capability in
properly assessing and managing the marine fisheries resources and to
providing its field officers with increased mobility to carry out statistics
collection, enforcement of fishing regulations and other activities pertain-
ing to fisheries conservation and extension support. Training would be the
priority need of FIDC and PFDA, the former for national policy formulation
and project preparation, monitoring and evaluation, and the latter for the
management and operation of fishing ports and market facilities. The proposed
project would assist in this task.
Previous Bank Experience in the Fisheries Sector
48.       The Bank's lending for the fisheries sector has been aimed at
assisting the Government to achieve its objectives of increasing production
and improving the efficiency of fishing operations and quality of the catch.
Three projects were wholly for fisheries development. Six other projects
included funds for other purposes in the agriculture sector. The first group
of projects comprises the First and Second Fisheries Projects (Loans 891-PH
and 1270-PH, respectively), and the Fishery Training Project (Loan 1786-PH),
and the second group the Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project (Loan
1894-PH), First, Second, Third and Fourth Rural Credit Projects (Loans 432-PH,
607-PH, 1010-PH, and 1399-PH, respectively), and the Small Farmer Development
Project (Loan 1646-PH).
49.       The first two fisheries projects, financed by Bank loans of
$11.6 million and $12.0 million, respectively, provided funds through DBP for
boats and equipment, shore facilities, new and rehabilitated fish ponds and
related technical assistance. Under the first project, the fish ponds
generally showed significantly higher yields than estimated during appraisal.
On the other hand, the marine sector appears to have achieved little better



- 14 -
than half of the incremental fish production estimated at the time of
appraisal. The second project generally met its objectives of increasing the
volume and improving the quality of the fish catch, but the profitability of
the fishing boats was reduced by the escalating cost of fuel. The major
lessons learned from these projects include the need to provide some
flexibility in the financing of specified investments so as to enable project
lending by DBP to respond to changes in the needs of the fishing industry as
they arise, and.to undertake project reporting and sample surveys in the early
phase of project implementation in order to provide for proper evaluation of
the project following its completion.  The third project wholly for fisheries
- the Fishery Training Project - is still in the early stages of
implementation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The proposed project was prepared by FIDC, with the assistance of
FAO/CP, and was appraised in September 1980. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 5 to April 13, 1982, with a Philippine delegation led by
the Honorable Teodoro Pena, Minister of Natural Resources. A Staff Appraisal
Report, No. 3387-PH, dated April 19, 1982, is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives
51.       The proposed project is designed to help municipal (small-scale)
fishermen and to improve sector management through institution-building
activities. To achieve its first objective, the project would assist
municipal fishermen in one of the poorest regions of the country through the
establishment of adequate marketing facilities for the efficient collection,
transport and distribution of fish and the provision of input supplies. To
meet the second objective, the project would strengthen the operations of the
three fisheries agencies of the Ministry of Natural Resources: BFAR, PFDA
and FIDC.
Description
52.       Over an eight-year period, the project would provide funds for the
following:
(a) the development of fish handling and marketing facilities,
including the construction of landing places, ice plants,
ice and chill storage, carrier boats, marketing and other
supporting on-shore facilities in seven cities: Bulan, San
Jacinto, Miaga, Cataingan and Placer in the Masbate/Ticao area,
with some 25,000 fishermen, and Catbalogan and Santo Nino in
Western Samar, with 10,000-12,000 fishermen. Project funds
would also provide input supplies to fishermen, comprising
mainly fishing boats with engines, hull and engine
replacements, sails and fishing gear, and



- 15 -
(b) institutional support to BFAR, PFDA and FIDC, including technical
assistance, training, and equipment. Funds provided for technical
assistance would be used to employ consultants required by PFDA
and FIDC pending completion of the training of their staff under
the project. Practical and academic training for staff would
be undertaken locally and overseas. Funding for equipment would
be mainly for boats, vehicles, and communications, fish
processing, field extension and office equipment.
*       Implementation and Organization
53.       The Area Development Component ($23.2 million including contingen-
cies). PFDA has established a subsidiary corporation to operate the area
development subproject. A suitably qualified private firm has been selected
to manage the corporation under a contract with PFDA. The Corporation's
Board of Directors includes representatives nominated by the Government and
by its private shareholder. A general manager and two deputy managers (one
for operations and one for finance and administration), with qualifications
acceptable to the Bank, would be provided by the private firm to manage the
corporation (Section 3.06 of the draft Project Agreement). A General Manager
was nominated prior to negotiations. The corporation would engage a qualified
engineering firm to prepare final designs and tender documents for the
facilities and equipment to be procured, and also to assist in evaluating
the bidding documents and in supervising the construction, installation and
trial operations of the facilities and equipment for the area development
subproject (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). All land required
for the area development component has been acquired (Section 3.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
54.       After completion of construction at the seven project sites,
corporate operations would comprise the following: (1) operation and main-
tenance of the project's physical facilities and equipment; (2) provision of
input supplies to fishermen selling fish to the corporation; (3) buying fish
and transporting them to urban markets and (4) supervising auction sales of
fish at project facilities. The corporation would, as part of its operations,
establish a credit-in-kind program supplying inputs to fishermen marketing
their catch through the corporation, at the equivalent of 14% p.a., which is
expected to be positive in real terms (Section 3.05 of the draft Project
Agreement). Proposals to change the rate would be discussed with the Bank.
A profit-sharing arrangement among the corporation, equity holders and the
participating fishermen would be instituted.
55.       The Institution-Building Component ($13.4 million including contin-
gencies). During negotiations it was agreed that the proposals for organiza-
tional changes for BFAR, PFDA and FIDC would be submitted to the Bank for
review by September 1982 and that the procedures for implementing these
changes would begin by December 31, 1982. Implementation would be
substantially completed by December 31, 1983 (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 16 -
56.       A Project Unit (PU), which would supervise the implementation of the
institution-building component, including training of staff and procurement of
goods would be established within MNR (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement). It would be comprised of an Assistant Minister of MNR as
Chairman, the Director of BFAR, the General Manager of PFDA and the Executive
Director of FIDG.  Decisions and other actions of the PU would be carried out
by a secretariat which would also be within MNR (Section 3.08 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The secretariat would include members from MNR, BFAR, PFDA
and FIDC. The establishment of the PU and its secretariat would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
To assist in the determination and coordination of the training needs of the
three fisheries agencies, the PU would hire a training specialist, with
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, and, by December 31, 1982, prepare a
training program for the staff of BFAR, PFDA and FIDC (Section 3.09 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The PU would establish a monitoring and evaluating
system satisfactory to the Bank, and would participate, in June 1984, in a
review with the Bank and the fisheries corporation, to assess the progress of
the project (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). The PU would also
prepare and submit to the Bank annual progress reports and a Project
Completion Report on the project (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
57.       The total financing requirements of the project are estimated at
$37.0 million including taxes amounting to about $350,000, and the capitalized
front-end fee. Approximately $23.2 million (including contingencies) would be
allocated for the area development component and $13.4 million for the
institutional strengthening component. The estimated foreign exchange cost is
$16.9 million, including the front-end fee, or 46% of the total financing
requirements. The cost estimates are based on prices updated to December
1981, and include a physical contingency of 12% and a price contingency of 57%
of total base cost plus physical contingencies based on the expected price
increases as follows: (a) 10% in 1982 and 8% in 1983-86 for local costs, and
(b) 8.0% in 1982, 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985 and 6% in 1986 for
foreign costs.
58.       The proposed Bank loan of $22.4 million (including front-end fee)
would finance about 60% of the total project cost net of duties and taxes, and
would cover 100% of foreign exchange costs plus $5.5 million of local costs./l
The Government would provide $14.3 million, the private sector participants in
the equity of the corporation to implement the area development component
would provide up to $0.2 million, and subborrowers for fishing supplies
$0.1 million. The Bank funds earmarked for the area development component
/1 Justification for local cost financing is provided in para. 26 of this
report.



- 17 -
($12 million) would be onlent to the corporation under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government and the corporation, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
execution of the subsidiary Loan Agreement would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Technical
assistance under the institutional strengthening component is estimated to
require about 150 months of internationally recruited consultants at about
$10,500 a month, including fees, international travel and subsistence; and
36 months of local consultants at about P 20,000 (about $2,500) a month.
Procurement
59.       In order to ensure that one contractor assumes overall responsibil-
ity for synchronizing the civil works and equipment installation, the estab-
lishment of landing facilities, ice plants, ice storage, chill rooms, slipway
and repair shop, buildings, other structures and development of the sites
for the area development component, costing about $11 million, would be
carried out under a single contract in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). To enable the participation of
small local contractors, however, sub-contracting of the civil works at the
various sites would be allowed. For locally manufactured goods, a preference
margin limited to 15% of the import price (c.i.f.) of such goods, or their
prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, may be applied in the evaluation
of bids. The engineering firm which will prepare detailed designs,
specifications, and tender documents for all the facilities, and assist in
evaluating bids would be selected from prequalified firms acceptable to the
Bank (Sections 2.02 and 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement). The contracts
for the on-shore facilities and the engineering firm would be subject to the
Bank's prior approval.
60.       The fisheries corporation would procure all goods for the area
development project. The wooden-hull carrier boats costing about $500,000
would be procured from prequalified local shipyards in accordance with the
Goverment's local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. LCB would likewise be applied to the procurement of the fishing boat
hulls ($1.0 million), engines ($0.3 million), sails ($0.2 million), pick-up
trucks and insulated trucks ($0.4 million). Communications equipment, spare
parts for fishing boat engines, fishing gear and other minor equipment items
would be procured through the Government's local procurement procedures that
are satisfactory to the Bank (para. C of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement).
61.       The Project Unit (PU) would procure all the items financed under
the institutional strengthening component. BFAR would purchase a research
vessel to replace its existing one ($900,000). It is expected that this would
be a used vessel. Any refitting required would be done on the basis of the
recommendations of a qualified marine surveyor. All the scientific equipment
required for research and extension would be grouped under a single lot
($0.8 million) and procured through ICB. ICB would also be applied to the



- 18 -
24 four-wheel drive vehicles, 7 cars, 400 motorcycles, 3 insulated trucks,
pickup trucks, mobile crane, and tractor with scoop loader, which would be
purchased as a group. A preference margin limited to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of imported equipment, or prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower,
may be applied to locally manufactured equipment. Hulls and engines for the
patrol and inspection boats would be procured separately. Construction of
hulls ($0.2 million) would be awarded to prequalified local shipyards based
on LCB. To ensure their timely procurement, it is anticipated that the
construction of the hulls would be awarded to three or more builders. The
engines ($0.2 million) would likewise be procured through LCB. Local
shopping would be used to procure the communications and other minor
equipment (Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Status of Engineering
62.       Land for fish landing facilities and ancillary structures has been
leased by PFDA under a 50 year renewable contract. Feasibility grade
designs, layouts and drawings have been prepared for all seven sites.
Construction quantities have been estimated for all structures and all
hydrographic work done.
Disbursements
63.       Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation.
Disbursements would be made against 50% of expenditures for civil works,
100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, vehicles,
vessels and materials, 100% of local expenditures, ex-factory, for locally
manufactured items; 65% of local expenditures for locally procured items;
100% of expenditures for consultants for studies, engineering designs and
supervision, 60% of expenditures for local training; and 100% of foreign
expenditures for foreign training.
Lending Terms and Conditions
64.       The Bank loan of $22.4 million would be repayable over 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 11.60% per annum. The
Government would onlend $12 million of the Bank loan to the fisheries
corporation under the area development subproject (para. 58) at the same
rate of interest and with the same grace and repayment periods as for the
Bank loan. Interest accrued during the grace period would be capitalized.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk and the corporation
would pay a foreign exchange risk premium on amounts withdrawn and
outstanding. The corporation would also pay the commitment charge of 0.75%
on the undisbursed balance of the loan.
Benefits and Justification
65.       Although the impact of the institutional strengthening component
is long-term and wide-ranging and cannot be easily quantified, its major
benefits for the production and utilization of fish would include: limiting
the exploitation of the fisheries resources by preventing overfishing and



- 19 -
fishing by illegal methods; improving product quality by improving fish
handling and processing techniques; and improving marketing information.
Major benefits of the area development subproject would include: an
increase in the fish catch of about 700 tons annually valued at some
P 8.9 million (approximately $1.1 million); employment for about
200 permanent workers and 80 man-years annually of casual labor to be
provided by the corporation which would market fish from about 2,500
municipal and other small-scale fishermen; increases in the income of
participating fishermen through higher prices realized for the catch;
increased efficiency in fishing operations; lower marketing costs; better
quality fish, and reduced spoilage of fish from the provision of improved
inputs for fishing and marketing facilities.
66.       The higher prices received by the participating fishermen,
averaging about 10% more than that currently paid by the middlemen-buyers,
would amount to about P 2.5 million (about $310,000) per year. Nonparti-
cipating fishermen would also benefit to the extent that the fish prices
offered by the middlemen-buyers would increase as a result of the higher
prices paid by the corporation. Other beneficiaries would include the local
workers engaged to construct the various subproject facilities, which would
require about 43,000 man-days of labor, and the local fishing industry,
which would generally benefit from the ice, cold storage, transport and boat
repair facilities provided by the corporation.
67.       Under the area development subproject, the financial rate of return
(FRR) on the corporation's investments is estimated at about 19%. The FRR
on the investments for the motorized fishing boats with fishing gear, which
account for the major part of the input supplies to fishermen, is estimated
at about 32%. The economic rates of return are 24% and 36% respectively. A
sensitivity analysis to determine switching value at which the rate of
return would fall below 14% was carried out. Returns are most sensitive to
changes in revenues and operating costs, particularly for motorized fishing
boats. However, the marketing of fishermen's catch through the corporation
would reduce significantly the risk that the rate of return on their
investments would fall to the opportunity cost of capital.
Risks
68.       This project carries unusually high risks, mainly because the
operating results of the area development subproject, being the first of its
kind in the Philippines, would be subject to many uncertainties. In
addition, MNR and its fisheries agencies have no experience in implementing
Bank-assisted projects, and the management within BFAR is at present weak.
The major uncertainties which would confront the area development subproject
would be, firstly, the extent to which the corporation is able to perform
efficiently and successfully, including breaking into the existing marketing
system in a manner which would prove benefical to fishermen without seriously
disrupting the present trading pattern. This will depend on its ability to
engage competent and experienced senior staff, especially managers, who are
well acquainted with the fisheries operations in the subproject area.
Breaking into the existing marketing system, bound as it is by an intricate
web of social and economic relations between fishermen and the middlemen
fish buyers, will be a major challenge. Secondly, any delays or errors in
the design or construction of the subproject facilities, which would
postpone the start of marketing operations or restrict their expansion would



- 20 -
in turn adversely affect the corporation's operating results. Major delays
in construction would also result in significant cost overruns for the
facilities. Thirdly, since reliable estimates of the fish resources
and their sustainable levels in the subproject areas are not available at
present, future catches may be smaller, resulting in less fish for the
corporation than is anticipated. This possibility is recognized in the
project design, which emphasizes improved marketing rather than increased
production. Finally, project benefits are sensitive to changes in the price
of fish. However, since revenue from fish sales in the past has increased
more than inflation the risk associated with price sensitivity is not
expected to be great. These risks are acceptable because the target group
of project beneficiaries is living in a depressed area, and because
past attempts by the Government to assist them through credit programs have
been largely unsuccessful.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the fisheries
corporation, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional conditions of
effectiveness include: (a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and the fisheries corporation (Section 6.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement); and (b) the establishment of a Project Unit and its
secretariat (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 30, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 21-                                             ANN EXI
TPage I of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVETAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            300.U                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTUhAL      90.8               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PFR LAPITA (US1)                  15U.0        240.0     600.0                 1136.1                  1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGr.AMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     159.1       292.9      355.9                 1150.6                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27372.0      36852.0   46748.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3         32.9       35.8                   40.8                    64.2
PUPULATIUN PROJECTIUNS
PUPULATIOh I. YEAR 20UO (MILLIONS)                        75.2
STATIONARi PUPULATIUN (MILLIONS)                         125.0
YEAR STAT1ONARY POPULATION 1S REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        91.2       122.3      155.8                  373.1                    34.3
PER SQ. KMI. AGRICULTUkAL LANG    360.0       472.0      502.6                2382.8                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUKE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                          44.6        45.5       44.3                   39.8                    40.7
15-04 YRS.                          52.4        51.6       52.6                  56.7                    55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         2.9        3.1                    3.5                     4.0
POPULATIUN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7         3.0        2.6                    2.3                     2.4
URBAN                               3.8         3.8        3.6                    3.8                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.7        39.2       34.4                   29.7                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      15.6         10.8       8.2                    7.5                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3         2.8        2.3                    1.9                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THoUSANDS)        ..       191.7      650.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          2.0       37.0                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
P'ER CAPITA (1969-71-1O0)         102.0       101.0      114.0                  123.7                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALUFIES (PERCENT OF
KEQUIREhENTS)                    97.0       102.5      107.7                  112.6                  107.6
PROTEINS (GKAMS PER DAY)           45.0        50.0       53.0                  62.5                    65.8
OF WHIU ANIMIAL AND PULSE       17.0        20.0       21.0                   19.7                   34.0
ChILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      15.6         9.6        6.3                    4.8                     7.6
hEALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.U         57.3       61.6                   64.0                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            98.0        80.0       65.0                   50.2                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        36.0       43.0                  45.9                     65.7
URBAN                                ..          ..       66.0                  68.0                    79.7
RURAL                                ..           .       33.0                   34.4                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPELATION)
TOTAL                                ..        57.0       59.0                   53.4                    59.9
URBAN                                ..          ..       76.0                   71.0                   75.7
RURAL                                *'          *-       44.0                  42.4                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN               ..           ..    2758.2                4428.7                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      3840.0    3115.3                 2229.7                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
lOTAL                            1134.1       821.8      558.0                  588.5                  471.2
URBAN                             536.2       392.7         ..                 579.6                   558.0
RUKAL                                *-          *-         *                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        30.0         ..                   36.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.8         5.9
URBAN                                ..         6.2
RURAL                                ..         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.3
UR8AN                                *.         2.1
RURAL                                '.         2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DIELLINGS)
TOTAL                              16.5        23.2       36.0
DRBEA                                ..        60.4       82.0
RURAL                                *-         6.8       10.0



- 22 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCAlION
ADJUSTED tNtULL14ENT RATIOS
PRLIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0         114.0     105.0                    99.8                     101.7
MALE                   98.0        115.0     102.0                   100.6                     103.0
FEMALE                93.U         113.0     107.0                    98.8                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  26.0          50.0      56.0                    53.5                      35.3
MALL                   28.0         59.0      65.0                    58.4                      34.9
FEMALE                25.0         42.0       47.0                    48.6                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  15.0              ..      34.0                    21.1                      30.1
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                              3t.0        29.0       31.0                    34.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                           27.0         33.0       36.0                    31.7                      15.7
ADULI LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          71.9         82.6      88.4                    86.5                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0           7.6       8.9                    12.7                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          21.9         46.6       43.5                   174.1                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.4         10.9      19.1                    50.6                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    17.0         13.6      21.2                   106.8                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6              ..        7.6                    4.3                       3.2
LABOR FURCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10893.2         13478.1   16608.5
rFIALE (PERCENT)                   34.4         33.1       32.3                    37.4                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                61.0         53.0      46.7                    50.2                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  15.2         16.0       16.9                    21.9                      23.2
PAKTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  39.8         36.6       35.5                   40.2                      31.8
MALE                                   52.1         48.6       47.6                   49.8                      49.0
FEMALE                                 27.4         24.4      23.2                    31.1                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.2          1.3        1.3                     1.1                       1.4
INCOME DISTKIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
hIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..        25.1
hlGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           54.0
OWWEST 20 PERCENT OF HiOUSEHOLDS       ..          5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      260.0/c
RURAL                                 ..           ..      195.07E                 193.7                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USI PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      266.0/c                    ..                    513.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..     200.07w                 234.3                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UKBAN                                  ..          ..       32.0/c
KURAL                                  ..           ..      41.07;                  32.2.
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otheriise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   198U.
Revised
June, 1981



ANNX I
- 23 -                                                                   Page 3of 5pages
DEFlINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
N---es   Although the daaacdnoa  fomeuoe :tensily lo~dged the eoss auhnttho   n   eibl    nsol  acls  hente   hatted                                  efntbet
nainli oprshe   eeme   or ohs ltof snand fsdsode           .iir  an.o.       pt   sdh d..e.n.ruenic i  ni-eons    the dat.   The data see,
The  .e.ee.. g.... Pens117 tesoanntpomtthe 1 ~                he ahjcotonunysadIll   onunun  group  ith oumeuhat high., .. sorge o--r  than the c.unhty grump
of thesobleo   onuosy  eo-pt ion  'Capihai    ..nlu  .il -nponte  grou   h:b   M "hdi     oe mnthl ofollco and Middle Cash' is chosen hacaus  ftar e
eonoo-uiooraafiiniiaal -In the trers-c   grouP data nhr a-ena9ee are ppito  osighned." unioct  n-n  fun eah idicanr- end  h.-n onip  hben
one tod-itr.Iana tim  amon..g the county od orfaen-e-ao
Total - Totl  aiate rea copo~isi    land area and intn    anr                                     rho   o  or i   odd  by  he   et              o  oushorf hi op ite Ibads
ire oToPs,pstrs, -aket and botcher gand-n  or nolie Sefllou  1978 data                         habililaoo.-    uno - -. 1. oeinel aerenb           eotpraetysa  e
by as 1-s  ore physic Ian   F-nbllshreo y....        on.   nhni-pshlpun
GNP PER CaPITA VlI  - GItP par tapirs setIsatee at  --nn  sarkos  prices  ne                        dial neon ant  on included       -ina  hospitals, ho.r.. ,  loude beelb
tlndby  aecoes           ehod as World hank Atlas h19h-79 bassl )19th,                       adedotnresnnprannysatdh      haca   btb
lot   r  1979 dsta.                                                                          efia   eiaer,tne.ndus   u     hii   mc0
dsnion end p..oId, a 1hisled rant  c  stoical tallitiea.  Poersars
ENERGYT CONSUMPTIONf PEA CAPITA-   Ira  coo-uoption of oneclenegy 'coltca-upseIoe F                                       hosiasincods `Oos prinetupelte..e.aI h..spitaLs,
sod liptnie, petroheos, naurlm  and byd,r-, n-loer  ean  gerthe-1 tier-                          and nasal hnephtalt 1-1ta t Ir.rura  boepi Inl  and ediscat sod sateroity
trnitlyt ho Atiogre.. of c-ti eqW-vlen  per coyote; 1960, 1970, sod 1979                         oe--e .   p-oislhrrd Sne- itar  holde  onyune  ttl.
f... hc-pitale dtolded bh chs neber of bsdm.            
0                      ~~~~~~~POPULATION tiNl VITAL ,  ISATSICS
N            Tonl Poulatno  hd-h er  nhuesns t   he  f July 1; 1960, 1971. and 1979                       7111101
dons.                                                             berate hiss o~~~~_f  -tebhld 1 p-...hpr -nusrcld    - ttl  ura..ed ruts1-
lrbsr Pnulothn (perent oftotal;- pati  Aiubno   ua   ouain                              household ...ssleo.f agcp  fhdhoids.   mA hreTlnn    uir
.hierso- deihicloos oh uncuna  may               ..i.. u .pnah ....   dteen  thef  unOaa-hhodru  niomyo  a   o   ennhddh
amog nuune 196h, 1970, mud 197da.                                                              nba h...ebod Son otaioc-1 purposes
Poyust;o Potenice                                                     A ersrnmeroyyon   e   00                         hn  sd rural  A-r.sege  o
tonl.  population by 0gm mod eso ane bi   cslt d ttnhhueaes                                   ol  ns   esonn  y.notlnssnlde-n1-prseeI  arantrsaso
tot lie eupocancyan bith  .....sto  nith country's per o pins inneAces-ctnct                                   enntt~ odoaloat-tna.ubm  edrrl
lenri  and  emoleloft  mpennuny aeblir,o an  77.1 ers.  Tepr-Cooneirion     doelig   iheeotOyi  thgqatr
esesfhr fertilily rsne alto ha e three 1-neisa-toing decline in                          nf totl, -bhoo,enld total d_nsi hoa  reepe-Iu-ly
f1mno!timy soodi,hog nomos  len-1 ond pesi imnily  -imnin  ptrformsoos
Eahcunr  beto  asaged nie n,ihe tire une coebinoniona of  -muelty              EDUCoTION
and isorminop trer. for o..er. n .      purpse                                             AdrusnedtEurnil...I hatl
Snatioarnrotoaco-lu   thn. oooypopulaion there no no grouth i str.                       Pr imr- cho  - onlml sod immal  - Gross ninth1, mole end issah
nbshoup -n hieua   tohbedmanho-e, andoln                rI "ueor                            noIseIfrl egma - bsyimot =               enl s.. T s.    naseo  re.peotto-
'h'I'lotsrooatmot                                                                                                              .;        1 .TIs i  erbien-d onl  afm    et7ito  rate  derli-en  rmr   colaeppltin;nral  ldscude  aged 6-11
nhe repha.ese.. beor f -,tr      - e   rpoitm   rsts,  h-s each generenoun                     years but  djuetod foe differen  heogthe of ytisryednto;fee
ninmtelositsl aJ anly.   h   hninr   ouatoiee                                        conrte mint o-inersl  do..stino enoI"n  e               Z7emsd iLtD pellto
eanisaned no the basis of nhe prjected chratrtattos oII th:e:poploo                            stuns  moe pupils ar   elmoabout-its on icisi enbool age.I
in rha post 2000, ord rhrrne of deobins  fifertility leto  norI pae                          S.enordarthauI - ltotal moletd female - Computed ss shns  esud,r
aeo  J.eneI.li.                                                                                                         e.nsorqisa   es  four- years of  pproo.rd pftr  h5tafht
nea  str ioaypoplaio  te teen bed - The roa  one- stniorypr-ruop ides genrl   Lmahm.  or -  teatber trhimg. iostmnti ... fee Ppmpth
siro has beeny rearhed.i                                                                       usually  fi 12 no 17yeruSa;onepodm e......s ass g.eteesiy
Per so. bkn.- hid-ysar population per .,..rs kilometer (100 he--ram   of                       Tu-aciosa  surulle... irens ortr.   feudn)    oaILma  lmncuh
Lton1 aea., 19t0h, 19Th and 1979 data.                                                         hmulodo r-nnhel1, loduannish, on other proras,   shich opseece hodspad-
paert.bm.aarlc-     Ioralao-copontdasahone  L fnagi-ulorl ..Imnd                                 smtlyoradsp....s-t  ni  soodary ims...           iss
only;19b1  i97  sod1978 data.                                                          Pumil-soe ra  n-rtan   a   emdarn-ot   tdoc   nohot
PuuaiorAm  nretonre ir Icnn  - Children  Il-hi years) .onkhug-age. 715-                         memn.adsnodr           .lni  dinidad by  -ucees nf isanh-r  in the
i pers.and retinad(tS  y....s..dnnen)ss. pencestiges otoid-ye.,  .e.-                            ncrnspuoInghn
iio;iA. .1t, sad 1979 dana.                                                            huaItro    aeta m Ad.- Licsrsta adults habit to reed sto  erstel
Puoaho    rnmth hale  rrcri- tonl.- dAimu"  enmesh rate  fitoa  tad-                         aspreut   f tota  adult                laim   aed 15 yeses sod most.
yearpoplaronsfurl9h-hl  iNAO1-7O  and 19Th-T7
PPorolaion Crotch hats  nErcenti -rbem- A-auiB.. goth r.ees  of urban topw-                  CdiffT
latoosfu  iNi-A,  rA6TI  ad97-79.                                                   Psesese  Cmo  mnnbiadomuais  -  asseeie   npehes aso,
trade tinh mamhs   husd       rma  lInt- births pine husr                f mdraorssnt   Ice  I'll5nprss;ocoraebisa,  ere   a
ppano;196h, 1970, sod 1979 dan.                                                         inlAeo hn ithes
Crude leach Sanspe tram     .. tbuadi - Am.o.I deaths Per thousads  f eid-y...                 sadho      1 tesnrs (per tho....sd  opulatiul - Al typos ofrei-hor  fee  -adir
,popa1isih; 19t0. 197, andei979 dane.                                                          tre  ar   o5Sers1 pu~blhi per th-o...d orpp           -aho;esldes s--
Cross hemrodonnium  AmeA- otge ntbar of da-ghtos  mean mil beer ho                               Iicesse.d receho-s  hm nnriesd Io yase oheo rsgsst-nim, tf eadho
tiliy raes;  soaly tins -yeraseo   nigh    l    9h   n   99                               ot orueresaashed5is Bhg
Family ylsoait  -JAnepotort,maos irosad - aetisi rather'of acnepenr                            TV Rsetsan-ea hoer nhoi-ad empulanim)-  it-arelomsfo  bsdoss  c
of thton-no_ru  d-nhs  udrsmit.s ofna ionlfemhlp plas..img progrm.genera  pub!in pe irhoosdfomesus   tldee   -Lnse   V  seoe
.11 -tried   -    L. .... g. B---                                        uhtcthn  eord 1ianlyn  enadtg   earl  ess.I  i  neHdmP
Pat WAOS RtItTmIiON                                                                                 mu he "dehly" If It  mpp.ars an.. least - foatlessoe
Soda   t PF.    Pedon       er Capita (19t~9-7,1-lll  - Indm of pee  ,aph,,  -oat              Chosm  Am.us Alnetdeons 'SE is-ia oar ter - h.ead am the sabee of
pIdoioo   l  Food n-seditios.  Producrmesonhodss         Feed an  taded               tcknets sold duritg the peer, hmludiag adeiseh..s I. drln-is rho-a
Ia 00 calendaryearbais   Cu-InoInIeo--r pehery goods heg.  Iua"am                              sad   otile  rIe
insceadofsuaho htoaodhblsadcunid                   m--  son  te. nofeseod,
mes are sanldad        ggegt  produh-u  o-f  su  omotory Le based on                      L.ABOR FORCc
nethneAL  -oraga prodoes peric  oights;  9Sti-t5, 19701, and 1979 date.                      Tots1 Labo  Prtehth...ads   - fo..o.sminelly suite  parsons. imuhdtI
Pe   art  srlyofoinsIeresi resi-hresct   - Coeparad ferom                                ared fortes an    .impts  busetadm    osssos  stmdsat,tct,
per day.  Anahieble  upp hiss coepriss doe..ethI pndmn-in, Dmpmets lass                      nor r         1ehe   960, 1970 sd 9979 dmia.
espnt, ad  hanesho  so A.Sr  s mph,9,    te -eolteo a  fee,d  ,seds,                 Ps-a  menei)           l-Peei   fsha  trts.: Ia pettotge oi tons1 hebmo fort.
qatonlie  use  in fed pmnoe..hig, ad lose  isdiat ibhotioc  Sqioe-                         Aghi pt.amrot-I - L,bm- ions to ferehag  forestry, funting sod
me ms mre etimtedby P019 based npphumianedfoommlnt-fishing as p.eresongs mf nme  Ibri-n;19h  hO   odiT 11tdate,
nis  so  hath nmid-pn  oi po"                o I eoseue   oyinihts,,aeIdsryIeco  - Lao   oret  stig,n                                        Itrr r      _amfsnemrs
sad eso dietrihuti-o of popitrimo, aod a11-thg iT pennrn for masse as                       anAd!%sotohcin      . eter and Ba e.    preugof Aett1 Astor faeet; h1960
toosahoid lenei  hAl-gO    91   o 7     1977 dana                                             1 975 sod 1979 dens..
Fersetas 1ri of 2rrmehn e9(rsee o- dat  -  r               -eh   ctef    per os pita   Petrhria7!tlmomte- hooas- imnal  "sh. sa  famel1- Psrninhftasms 
ne  epmly of fomd pem day.  Net sopply o  feud is deft hod sabme.-   he-                   srHnhsprae          Ieuada  totl, sale  sd Tsmal  Iags ferness
quiremeIs for all  .......e  estblished by USA pr-nido fur titoreperoso-gee of =onl,slesd femae  mplcm    f shi ages ..sapenth-sy;
alo...essn  mc t0 grate mel ts- potI  per dayted 20 gBas of anima  sod                       1960, 1970h. ed 1979 daca.  These are base.d or ILC's martiripasiss 055-
pos Irti,o  otiobhI grams ehmald ha to1-a  Proosan.  These stn-Ifeon    g-e   tutr   f the popaIlato, sod Long name tread,  A
soiproei  as  ma'osg  finn the  -eld, propose.d by hAd ho the 4Thrd                    Ecmooml  D.enedenoy Satin - Sas  of pmpmitim- a-dar 15 tad 65 and ms
Word PFod homey; 1961-At, 197h mmd 1977 daa                                                  to  ohs totem  tahur forts.
Pa   aia  rts  anot  fom  -ismal and nalse   Pruies  supply olfehoo  de-
nho-d hesr nial  an   ussh   rsprdy; 19th1-AS, 1970 sod 1977 data.                       INOM  DISTSIshT'fl
-                        ~~~~~~~~Chiild  1aa   -4h morcalun hen  too u! hausa)  -amoL deaths Pe -thou...od It            Perneons  o fohosts. hu-m  hbunt Ln tes  sed  i,dh - aeri-ed by reh..es
age grou   h-A pers, tu othildr- It thus age group; for moa  denehopiognos eero,ooen1   ecn,pors   0pret                                                   orri  ean
ttes. dens derive  from lhf  tables; 1960, h970 and 1979 data.                                 of phouebotids,I  0pr.t   .e.   0p-.,.dp.-    0Pr-
HEALTH                                                                                         POVERASY PARGST GROUtPS
Life Sm-rcnann- Bint hoetysh..    Anersge  u.-bef o .. yers of life retiningTefieng   etsnsseomapnlasmaue   fpney heosis,
ac tbihrt   1960, 1970 so   99dc.sd should b. e tniomndsu    osdeeltnh
oag   trcheossod lIes birthsj. ..aAbsohose penerny nume  IoL is the    oe-  Ioe  helme  hai.hu  a sif1a
Anaeetfe  ae  bennet ohboacsmh-rms ta. amd macal -                                         mHtrttusLIyaeiuh  dinpn   semtlnnfn  esmists                           s  e
ha  of pWmpl  (cmcl  urba, sod roeeh sith re...ot-bFe                                          fftas no safe  affdedabp1.
es-srappp  hilde  crete..d surfate. ostesor isratdbute                 ostotd                Osie  Raltin- Ponen  Ant-  CrocI (USh mar rasiteS  - rhbs sad torh1
ofterPepnisPophnoa                           ootareeemI..                               per.o.  imnome  f ch,nmuotry.  Erhun lne  Is deehoed from  the  --I
ffsei   rennpenhntt.ormo  te   otetrsmm    otsmybehhl  Ah  duntn   orhger00to   ino ehra.aes
moeldre    t.bphog oIi..o redamhastesmpta   ostinrra   ra
hores  ofneaPaua   mrstm  m                   uhm-irisl.           f ar . sod ' easld-
the noientho  psd   ddie    prposa,at  ... mithent   treatm ytI, of.bmmattathet                                                     Enoel  an   muc   at  te
PometasasPesoa      Pminm  d..in .:.ida   pueheo            pretno p..ysi-
these qa..i  feesh      meinr  L nholP   a  amiecet  leos'di.e        yL
Peeml Ptya iemem  -ar Ptm pPers t-iPolaimid   bynds  by mite  of p-t ntinphngi
meleeudfst-lsgm    daa   -1uesa,hprennioi-rounces,     -



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                   Annual growth rates (%)
current prices)                         Actual                                          Projected
Indicator                              1979            1976      1977     1978     1979     1980/a    1981      1982     1983      1984     1985     1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product             28,854             7.1      6.2       5.9      5.9      4.7        5.8      6.3      6.3      6.3       7.1      8.3
Agriculture                       6,991             8.6      5.0      4.8       5.3      4.3       5.2       5.2      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
lndustry                         10,174            10.0      7.7      6.4      6.7       5.8       6.5      7.2       7.5      7.5      8.5     10.0
Services                         11,689             3.7      5.7      6.3      5.5       5.0       5.6      6.2       6.0      6.0      7.0      8.5
Consumption                        21,860             4.3      5.2      4.6       4.8      4.2        5.4      5.2      4.9      5.1      5.        7.0
Gross investiment                    8,576            8.0      0.7      13.3      7.4      4.8        6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3      7.1       5.3
Exports of  .NFS /b                  5,528           19.9     17.6       1.6      7.4     11.3       10.2     10.7     11.2     10.6     10.8    10.5
Imports of GNJFS                     7,110            1.3      5.3    13.2       10.3      5.2        6.6      6.7      6.5      6.6      6.8       7.2
Cross national savings               6,665           -2.0     11.3       8.3      7.7      3.1        -        -        -        -        -         -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 = 100)                           183.6   198.8   210.6   250.8         296.9      -         -        -        -        -        -
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                               7.45     7.41     7.38      7.39      7.52      -         -        -        -        -         -
Export price index (1978 = 100)                      92.6     95.8   100.0   124.6        140.3   149.9   160.0   170.5   183.3   195.7    258.7
Import price index (1978 = 100)                      91.6     94.2    100.0    117.4      142.2    157.0    170.8    185.2   197.1    210.6   289.3
Terms of trade index (1978 = 100)                   101.1    101.7    100.0    106.1       98.7     95.5    93.7       92.6    93.0      Q2.9      S9.4
Share of GDP at market prices (I)                           Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices) /c                                     (at constant prices)
1960    1970      1975     1980      1985     1990      1960-70    1970-75    1975-80   1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product               100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0              5.1         6.1        5.9         6.3        7.6
Agriculture                        28.1      27.8     29.0     26.8      25.0     22.0          4.3        4.3         4.8        5.0         5.0
Industry                           25.8      29.6     33.5     35.5     37.7      40.6          6.0        8.6         7.6        7.5         9.1
Services                           46.1      42.6     37.5     37.7     37.3      37.4          5.2        5.4         5.7        6.1         7.7
Consumption                        S5.3      79.2     75.8     74.5     72.4      68.7          4.8        5.5         5.2        5.2         6.5
Gross investment                    16.3     21.5     31.0     30.1      29.2     30.5          8.2       11.5         6.5        6.8         7.6
Exports of GNFS                    1.8      19.4     18.5     19.4     24.7      27.5          5.8        3.2        10.0       10.7        10.0
Imports of GNPS                    10.6      19.7     25.3     24.0     26.2      25.4          6.8        6.8         8.0        6.6         6.9
Gross national savings             16.2      20.5     25.3     23.1      25.4     29.2          7.4        9.7         -          -           -
As , of  ODP
1960       1970        1975       1980          Labor Force in 1978            Millions      (%)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                    Aericulture                    7.4       44.4
Current revenues                              9.R        9.5        13.9       12.8             Industry                       2.7       16.2
Current expenditures                          9.6       10.9        12.3         9.6            Services                       5.6       33.0
Current surplus                               0.2       -1.4         1.6         4.1            Unemnployed                    1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                           2.3         1.9        3.2         3.2
Foreign financing                             -          0.1         0.3         1.5                Total Labor Force        16.8       100.0
1960-70           1970-75            1975-80           1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                     5.1                5.6               5.9                6.3               7.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                          2.0                2.7               3.2                3.6               5.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (V)                      7.4                6.2               4.2                4.7               4.0
ICOR                                                           4.5                4.7               4.6               4.5                4.1
Marginal savings rate                                        0.285             0.330               0.26              0.32               0.35
Import elasticity                                             1.33              1.12               1.20              1.05               0.90
/a  Preliminary estimate.
/b  Hlistorical figures are official estinates based on 1972 weights.  In relation to the composition of Philippine exports
in the late 1970s these estimates give undue weight to stable or declining exports of raw commodities such as copra,
sugar, and logs, and insufficient weight to rapidly growing exports such as nontraditional manufactures and cocontit oil.
bank staff estimates of export volume based on 1978 weights are shown on Attachment 3b.
/c Projected years of constant prices.
East A;ia & Pacific Regi nal Office
November 1981



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ million, at current Prices)
Actual                Est.                Projected
1977    1978    1979      1980    1981      1982     1983     1984     1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services               4,161   4,838   6,177   7,863   9,084  10,71.  12,830  15,360  18,370
Of which:  exports of goods              3,151   3,425   4,602   5,788   6,518   7,89;J   9,630  11,710  14,220
Imports of goods and services               5,248   6,323   8,108  10,348  12,076  13,680  15,620  17,820  20,210
Of which:   imports of goods             3,915   4,732   6,142   7,727   8,810  10,050  11,510  13,170  15,100
Transfers (net)                               260      312      355      434      500      550      610      660       730
Current Account Balance                   -827  -1,173  -1,576  -2,051  -2,490  -2,420  -2,180  -                -1,110
Direct investment (net)                       216      171       99       45      290      320       350      390     420
MLT loans (net)                               662      891   1,091    1,032   1,370   1,600   1,540   1,310           920
official-source loans (net)                 332      333      449      375      851      940   1,050   1,120   1,150
Private-source loans (net)                  330      501      642      657      519      660      490       90    -230
Other capital (net) /a                        113       56    -193       593      455      300      300       300      300
overall Balance /b                          164      -54    -579    -381    -375    -200            -      200      530
International reserves (end-year) /c   1,525   1,883   2,423   3,155
Reserve as months of imports                  3.5      3.6      3.6      3.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                         1,376   1,968   2,385   2,047
Concessional Loans                           88      120      183      178
Bilateral                                 62        96     113      101
IDA                                         2        1        3        2
Other multilateral                        24        63       67       75
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,287   1,848   2,202    1,R69
Official export credits                  123       121      152        8
tBRD                                      99      160      204      221
Other multilateral                         30       47       81       83
Private sources                        1,035   1,520   1,765   1,557
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           5,003   6,199   7,137   8,554
Official-source                        1,423   1,895   2,265   2,710
Private-source                         3,580   4,304   4,872    5,844
Undisbursed debt                         2,601   4,017   4,305   5,476
Debt Service
Total service payments                      762      910   1,028   1,259
Of which:   interest                     183      270      486       659
Payments as % of exports of goods
and services                            18.3    18.8    16.6       16.0
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                             7.5      5.5      5.5      6.9
Private-source (DRS)                       8.4       9.0    10.5    14.7
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                            18.6    22.8    23.3    21.2
Private-source (DRS)                        9.0    10.2      11.1      9.9
/a Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
/b  EquLals change in net international reserves.
T7 Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
East Asia and Pacific Region
Novemher 1981



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18 pages
THE STATUS OF BAIIK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A.  STATEMEHT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1982
Loan or
Credit                                                                        Amount (less cancellations)
Number      FY    Borrower                  Purpose                            Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-six Loans and three credits fully disbursed                            485.82  32.20
984-PH    1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation              9.50              0.16
998-Pit   1974                             DBP I                               50.00              0.43
1034-PH    1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                  61.00               0.51
1035-Pd    1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                             25.00               7.83
108U-PH    1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                       17.00              2.87
1102-PH    1975                             Rural Development                  25.00               4.88
1154-PtH   1976                             Magat Irrigation                    42.00              5.81
1190-PH    1976                             DBP II                              75.00              1.29
1224-T-PH 1976                              Education III                       24.73              2.23
1227-PH   1976                              Chico Irrigation                    50.00             25.80
1272-T-PH 1976                              Manila Urban                        10.00              2.99
1282-PH    1976                             Manila Urban                        22.00              6.58
1269-PH    1977                             Second Grain Processing             11.50              4.04
1353-PH    1977                             Third Highways                     95.00              44.98
1367-P1t   1977                             Jalaur Irrigation                   15.00              5.55
1374-P.I   1977                             Fourth Education                   25.00               6.64
1399-PH    1977 Central Bank of the         Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                  36.50              12.30
1414-Pil  1977 Rep. of the Philip.          Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvot.    50.00                  30.25
1415-Pit   1977                             Provincial Cities Water Sup.   23.00                   7.89
1421-P1I   1977                             Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II           15.00              6.93
1460-PA    1978 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                           58.00             30.63
1506-Pt1   1975 Rep. of the Philip.         Smallholder Tree Farming            8.00               5.90
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                                  30.00               5.15
1526-PH    1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt. II 65.00                  48.30
790-Pit   1978                             Rural Infrastructure                       28.00      21.09
S.8-PI1   1978                             Education                            2.00              0.88
1547-Pil   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                  60.00               1.05
1555-P1I   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                    15.00              1.05
1567-Pil   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Magat II                          150.00              22.97
1572-PH    1978                             Industrial Investment III          80.00              25.20
1615-PH    1979                             Manila Water Supply II             88.00              78.14
1626-PH    1979                             National Extension                 35.00              30.10
1639-PH    1979                             Magat River Multipurpose           21.00              14.22
1646-PH    1979                             Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)  16.50                  10.12
1647-PtH   1979                             Second Urban Development           32.00              21.65
1661-Pil  1979                              Highways IV                       100.00              97.44
1710-PH    1979                             Water Supply II                     16.00             16.00
920-PH   1979                              Water Supply II                            22.00      19.17
1727-PH    1979                             Small & Medium Industry II         25.00               0.36
923-PH    1979                             Population II                              40.00      39.30
1772-PH    1980                             Samar Island Rural Devel.          27.00              23.92
1786-PH    1980                             Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)         38.00              37.31
1809-PH   1980                              Medium-Scale Irrigation            71.00              67.06
1814-PH    1980                             tianila Sewerage & Sanitation    63.00                57.18
1815-PH    1980                             Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)    12.00                 11.21
1821-PH    1980                             Third Urban                        72.00              60.59
1855-PH    1980                             Third Ports                        67.00              65.11
1860-Pt!   1980                             Rural Roads Improvement            62.00              57.86
1890-Pit   1981                             Watershed Management               38.00              36.48
1894-PH   1981                              Third Livestock & Fisheries        45.00              33.90
1903-PH    1981                             Structural Adjustment             200.00               3.96
1984-PH    1981  Central Bank of che    Industrial Finance (Apex)             150.00             149.88
Philippines
2030-PH   1981  Rep. of the Philip.    Elem. Educ. Sector Loan                100.00             100.00
2040-Pil   1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Ag. Support Services                   45.00              44.97
2067-PH/a 1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Urban Engineering                         8.00              8.00
TotaL                                                                   2,967.55 122.20 1,546.57
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                               236.50
Total now outstanding                                                   2,731.05 122.20
Amount sold                                                24.34
of wtiich has been repaid
(third parties)                                          23.06            1.28   -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                 2,729.77 122.20
Total undisbursed                                                       1,346.55  79.56 1,426.11
/a Not yet effective.



- 27 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1982
F ecal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
ar                     Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the         15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967         Manila Electric Company                         8.0      -        8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                  -        4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone             3.7       .8      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8      0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the             -       2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2      2.1      8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0      -       15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5      -        1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.6          0.6      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2      -        1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                7.0      -        7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                      2.6      0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1         -        2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                    4.0      1.1      5.1
1980          PISO Leasing Corporation                       5.0      0.1      5.1
1980          Ventures in Industry and Business              -        0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980          Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.            4.5      -        4.5
1981          Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                 18.5       .7    19.2
1981          Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp. -           5.0      5.0
1981         Davao Union Cement Corp.                       16.0      -       16.0
Total gross commitments                      120.4    23.4   143.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              53.5    12.6    66.1
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC             66.9    10.8    77.7
Total Undisbursed                             34.5      0.8    35.3



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
as of March 31, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Credit No. 472  Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project was completed on December 31, 1981 and preparation of
the Completion Report is well under way. Work on the Canili and Diayo dams
and the transbasin canal was completed in 1975, about one year ahead of
schedule. However, difficulties in the award of construction contracts
delayed the start of improvement works in the Penaranda service areas which
were further hampered by severe typhoon damages in 1978 and 1980. Due to cost
increases, delays in construction and reduced cropping intensity resulting
from the overall shortage of water in the Upper Pampanga River Irrigation
System, the internal rate of return is expected to be considerably lower than
the appraisal estimate of 17%. The last consignments of O&M equipment are
being delivered.
Loan No. 1080 Tarlac Irrigation, $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975,
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date;
June 30, 1982
The project is now about 90% complete. Full completion is expected
by December 1982, a two-year delay in the original schedule, caused mainly by
managerial problems and late preparation of the designs for the drainage
works. The closing date has already been extended by one and a half years to
June 30, 1982, and it is expected that the Government will request a further
extension to complete the project works. The area developed is likely to be
some 20% less than originally planned, mainly because of flooding from the
Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. Costs are higher than anticipated, partly
due to the delays referred to above, and the economic rate of return is now
likely to be close to 10% compared with an appraisal estimate of 15%.
Loan No. 1102 Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project execution is well advanced. The irrigation works
are substantially completed, except for two communal systems which are planned
for completion by the end of 1982.  After initial delays in the award of
construction contracts for the roads component, progress in project execution
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
has now improved with the mobilization of contractors on three national and
one provincial road contracts. Completion of the roads component is now
planned for mid-1983, about three years behind the appraisal schedule. The
closing date has therefore been extended to December 1983.
Loan No. 1154 Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan if
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and the project is over 90% complete. All contracts have now been awarded,
but some of the work has been postponed until the end of the rainy season.
The water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Due to earlier
delays in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980,
project completion is expected to be delayed by about two years over the
original schedule of June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1227 Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976, Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date; December 31, 1984
Although the project was scheduled for completion in June 1980, it
is now only about 54% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement
of equipment for force account work. Further delays were caused by: changes
in design which resulted in rebidding the three major contracts for the
diversion dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated
typhoon damage; and problems of right-of-way acquisition. Work on the
diversion dam was suspended for over four months because of security problems
in the area. The project is now scheduled for completion in June 1984, a
four-year delay over the appraisal estimate, and the closing date has
therefore been extended to December 31, 1984. Towards the end of 1981, in
an effort to accelerate project implementation, the National Irrigation
Administration created a special task force, reorganized and strengthened the
project organization and brought in additional equipment and materials.
Loan No. 1269 Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976, Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and the closing date is expected to be
met. The loan has disbursed rapidly since the end of 1980 after a slow
beginning which led to a two-year postponement of the closing date to June 30,
1983. The post-harvest study on grain losses is expected to be
completed in early 1982.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
Loan No. 1367 Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is about 85% complete. Remaining major construction
activities include the improvement of the Santa Barbara diversion dam by
contract, the repairs of the existing right bank of the Jalaur diversion dam,
and on-farm facilities, including some additional works by force account. The
National Irrigation Administration expects to complete all construction works
by the end of July 1982. The Government intends to use the anticipated
balance of $4 million for the detailed engineering of the Jalaur multipurpose
storage dam for Stage II of the project. A draft feasibility report is being
reviewed by the Bank.
Loan No. 1399 Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The escalation in fuel and machinery costs during 1978 and 1979,
accompanied by a sharp fall in sugar prices, substantially reduced the subloan
demand, particularly for four-wheel tractors, power tillers and light trucks.
Another major problem has been the growing arrears of several rural banks
resulting in many of them being ineligible for project lending. To compensate
for this, in November 1979, the project's scope was broadened to include new
categories of investments and new lending channels (private development
banks); however, their impact on the disbursement rate has been modest.
Effective January 1982, the institutional arrangements for project imple-
mentation have been further widened to include private investment corporations
to lend, on a selective basis, for project-supported investments. The lending
terms have also been suitably rationalized. As a result, the pace of subloan
commitments is expected to accelerate; however, the undisbursed balance of the
loan ($12.8 million) may not be fully utilized by the extended closing date of
December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1414 National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to shortage of
staff and design problems at the outset, which caused delays in the finaliza-
tion of designs and preparation of bidding and contract documents for the
Abulog diversion dam and drainage works in Leyte. Shortages of fuel and
construction materials, which initially caused major delays, were eventually
overcome. Implementation improved in 1979 as a result of better planning and
organization and less complicated contract procedures. However, project
execution was severely delayed in 1980 and 1981 due to inadequate and, in
certain cases, late release of counterpart funds. Corporate funds have now
been approved, and in part released, for the 1982 construction program. Final
project costs and benefits are expected to be in line with original estimates.
Project benefits may be lower than estimated due to inadequate water,
particularly in Region 1. The project is now expected to be completed in
December 1984, about three years behind the appraisal estimate.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of l1
Loan No. 1421 Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A Cabinet subcommittee has been appointed to examine proposals for a
public land management policy emerging from an interagency workshop held in
August 1981. Feasibility studies have been completed for two of the three
settlements proposed for a follow-on Bank-financed project. Satisfactory
progress is being made in land allocation and titling and project infra-
structure; however, some titling and infrastructure works are expected to
extend beyond the current loan closing date. A recent promising start has
been made on the credit program and this should gather momentum. Progress in
the agricultural development component has been promising, as reflected in the
adoption by settlers of improved techniques, in the extent of areas now under
cultivation, and in reported improved yields. The reforestation component of
the project has, however, been neglected. In view of the status of some
project components, the Government is expected to request an extension of the
loan closng date by twelve months, to December 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project;
$80.0 Million Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 11, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical progress on the DBP tree farming component continues to be
satisfactory, and area commitments have reached approximately 82% of the
project's target. The BFD pine plantation component at Abra has been
seriously affected by insect attack resulting in the need to reconsider plans
for development and to initiate work on pest control measures and the use of
alternative tree species. The PCARR forestry research program is progressing
well and the draft Wood Industries Development Study has been submitted to
the Ministry of Natural Resources. Disbursement continues to be behind
schedule, principally because of procurement difficulties over vehicles,
infrastructure and equipment.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, planning and design for most of the project
works have been completed and construction is under way. Overall implementa-
tion progress is slow due to delays in finalizing the design for diversion
works and drainage systems in Regions 9 and 12, slow bureaucratic processes in
bidding and award of contracts, and inadequate and belated release of
counterpart funds in 1981. Corporate funds have now been approved for the
1982 construction season, and the project is expected to be completed in 1985.



- 32 -                       ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Credit No. 790  Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness:  July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction of rural water supply systems and health stations is
proceeding satisfactorily with about 360 water wells and 53 health stations
now completed. The construction of San Jose Port is expected to be completed
by mid-1983, allowing for the repair of typhoon damages. Work has progressed
well at the port of Culasi, but completion is delayed due the continuing
settlement of the storage platform. Construction of Dumaguit port is behind
schedule, as is construction of the irrigation components which were held up
by inadequate support facilities, ineffective farmer organizations and failure
of farmers to collaborate with project staff. However, remedial measures have
now improved the situation and the service area has been increased to about
10,400 ha. About 35 km of roads have been constructed through force account,
construction contracts have been awarded for 300 km of roads and the detailed
design of the remaining roads is well under way. The total length of village
roads has been reduced from the appraisal estimate of 1,390 km to about 1,200
km. Project completion is now planned for December 1984, about two years
behind the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1567 Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good. The first stage of river diversion has been
successfully achieved and excavation is substantially complete. Construction
of the main dam is making excellent progress. Concrete work for the spillway
started slowly and suffered from interruptions due to breakdown of the cranes,
but the contractor has made up for lost time and is once more nearly on sche-
dule. Work on resettlement of the population to be displaced by the reservoir
is excellent, with work on one of the three new villages nearly complete. The
project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1626 National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After a slow start due to the reorganization within the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), the project is being further delayed by management and
financial constraints. Implementation in the regions is now the
responsibility of the Regional Directors, and performance varies depending on
the motivation of the Director. The Minister of Agriculture has now been
requested to ensure that Regional Directors are fully conversant with the
Project-s objectives. The influence of the Project Manager - the Director of
the Bureau of Agricultural Extension - has been reduced since his agency
become a staff bureau. A shortage of local funds during the latter half of
1981 affected progress detrimentally. Procurement problems persist, as it is
unlikely that the President's Office will allow the import of the full quota
of vehicles designated for the project because of their increased cost and
drain on limited fuel resources. MOA will request that surplus vehicle funds



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
be used for other purposes, including additional motorcycles and visual aid
materials, and increased travel and gasoline allowances for all field
technicians. This request is expected to be received by the end of June 1982
and will be reviewed at the next supervision scheduled later in the year.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is generally
satisfactory. All major contracts have been awarded and some are ahead of
schedule. All construction equipment has been procured and delivered to site.
Completion is now expected by the end of 1984, eighteen months behind the
appraisal estimate.  The major constraint is the overall shortage of local
funds which is being carefully considered by the Government.
Loan No. 1646 Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness; April 25, 1979,
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The pace of sub-loan disbursements to small farmers continues to be
slow due to LBP's cautious approach to lending resulting from poor
collections under past sub-loans and to the delay in the reorganization of
field offices caused by belated government approval of LBP's proposals. In
addition, there has been a backlog in loan withdrawals in respect of
disbursements to second priority (non-agrarian reform) beneficiaries. The
field office reorganization and and other institution development measures
are, however, expected to be carried out in near future. Procedural
difficulties which held up withdrawals under the infrastructure component have
also been resolved, and the line agencies have started sub-project
implementation. The disbursements under the infrastructure component are
expected to start in May 1982.   The loan is expected to be fully drawn by
December 31, 1983, an 18-month delay over the appraisal estimate of June 30,
1982.
Loan No. 1772 Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bidding on road construction has been delayed due to political
disturbances on the island. Port work is proceeding satisfactorily but the
irrigation program has been delayed due to withdrawal of one of the sites
because of technical objections by the settlers. Alternative sites are now
being reviewed by the Bank. The construction of village wells is progressing
satisfactorily, and a pump maintenance problem was corrected by providing
specialized service tools under the project. The formation of water users
associations, and the collection of water charges, have begun slowly but are
gaining momentum. The program of schistosomiasis control is proceeding on
schedule, as is the Catubig Valley development study.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Loan No. 1809 Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The consultants engaged to develop the design of the dams have now
started compiling design and construction standards for irrigation structures
and facilities. However, detailed engineering design of the diversion dams
is behind schedule due to unavailability of drilling rigs to conduct sub-
surface investigations. Force account works have been started. Construction
contracts have been awarded for three of the 12 major contract works. Diffi-
cult working conditions in the project areas and inadequate communications
facilities have resulted in poor response to invitations for competitive
bidding from prospective contractors. This is likely to cause further delays
in the implementation schedule.
Loan No. 1815 Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
In spite of the complexity of the project, the Ministry of Agri-
culture's project management is making fair progress. The multi-agency set-up
of this project requires close financial monitoring, which needs further
improvement. The 1981 wet season multiple cropping target of 6,000 ha under
the Kabsaka methodology has been achieved. For the success of the coming 1982
wet season target of 16,000 ha, much will depend on the effectiveness of the
farmers' training sessions, the selection of farmer leaders and the mobility
of the field staff. The mobility of the coordinating management staff has now
improved with the provision of new vehicles funded through the National
Extension Project. The project has not to date been able to purchase its own
vehicles due to restrictions imposed by the Presidential Office. Several
project components are seriously affected by the inadequacy or delay in the
allocation and/or release of local funds.
Loan No. 1890 Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
In spite of funding restraints which affected project implementation
in 1981, the reforestation component achievement is close to target, and, with
the allocation of funds for 1982 now available, this progress should continue.
Road works are behind schedule, as vehicles and equipment procured under the
project have not yet been delivered, and the use of hired equipment has been
plagued with problems.  Project staffing levels proposed by NIA have been
reduced by 32%, and the proposed salary grades of key management personnel
have also been reduced. The Bank is monitoring this situation closely to
determine its possible effect on project implementation. The contract for the
Magat Feasibility Study was signed in November 1981.  The forest protection
pilot project is behind schedule due to the late release of funds in 1981.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Loan No. 1894 Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Tbe project is progressing well and cumulative disbursements have
ben slightly ahead of schedule. Estimated commitments over the medium term
indicate that this trend should continue.  In general, lending for fishponds
and hog production has exceeded appraisal estimates, while lending for
seagoing vessels and some types of cattle has lagged. (Village level cattle
schemes have substantially surpassed appraisal estimates.)  Studies being
C4i Lied out 1, _-td Bureau of Animal  ladustries should be under way shortly,
and institutLonal strengthening of the Development Bank of the Philippines
is currently in progress. The need for a study on fishing gear technology
to be handled by the Fishery Industry Development Council is being reviewed,
but a review of maritime regulations is expected to start shortly.
Loan No. 2040 Agricultural Support Services; $45.0 million Loan of August 25,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November 10, 1981,
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
This loan was signed on August 25, 1981 and was declared effective
in November 1981. New agencies have been established, and existing agencies
organized to implement the 24 components of the project. Delays have been
encountered due to confusion over the designation of responsibilities
between the Central Office, the staff bureaus and the Regional Offices
following the 1980 reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and non-
release of scheduled local start-up funds in 1981.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, the project is about 65% complete and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many contrac-
tors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds. The Ministry of
Public Highways was poorly managed. However, it was merged in 1981 with the
Ministry of Public Works and its operations are now improving. Further
efforts are, however, required to strengthen its management, and a short-term
action program was agreed in detail in 1981 with the Ministry of Public Works
and Highways (MPWH) in order to tighten the project implementation. MPWH
has adhered to the schedule of the action program, and works on national
and minor road contracts are now progressing satisfactorily. The road
maintenance and restoration programs have been reduced in scope to establish
more realistic targets. Procurement of road maintenance equipment, tools
and other machinery has been completed. Consultants for supervision of
construction of roads and workshops are in place and the road and ferry
feasibility studies have been completed. The technical assistance advisors
to MPWH completed their assignment in November 1979 and training advisors to
MPWH completed their work in March 1980. Overall, the project is likely to
be completed by mid-1983, the revised completion date.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After long initial delays caused mainly by slow procurement, the
implementation of this project has now started to progress more rapidly.  MPWH
has adhered, with some minor delays, to the action program agreed upon in
May 1981, and has recently made significant progress by awarding nine of the
ten national road construction contracts.  Nevertheless, the overall delay now
amounts to at least a year. The detailed engineering for construction of
workshops is well under way. Pilot maintenance programs for four regions have
started and procurement of maintenance equipment is under way.
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bids for almost all project components have been received and
evaluated. The soil consolidation work at the Port of Cebu is virtually
complete. Contracts for the main construction works at the ports of Iloilo,
Cebu and Zamboanga have been awarded and mobilization is under way. The
contract for the main construction work at the Port of Cagayan de Oro is still
under evaluation. Arrangements for construction supervision are still not
satisfactory and the Government is attempting to improve its field supervision
organization with the help of technical assistance consultants.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 8,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Initial progress in preparing the 1981 rural roads program has been
slow due mainly to a delay in providing technical assistance services to the
implementing agency. Due to delays in preparing and reviewing detailed
engineering for rural roads, no construction contracts started in the 1981 dry
season, putting the project about nine months behind schedule. Recently, the
Ministry of Local Government has awarded contracts for the first year-s
program packages, and the works are now starting. Contracts for improvement
of the national road in Occidental Mindoro have recently been awarded, and the
contractors are mobilizing. Consulting services for the technical assistance
component are now under way.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224-T   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The main component of the project, which is the development,
printing and distribution of 27 million primary and secondary textbooks and
teachers manuals in five subject areas, has made good progress. The project



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
has met its goal of producing and distributing 84 titles to schools,
amounting to over 31 million copies. Over 56,000 teachers have been upgraded.
A delay in the completion of a central facility for the Textbook Secretariat,
resulting from change orders and price escalation, has caused a one-year delay
in project completion. Two hundred seventy thousand dollars of the loan was
cancelled in March 1982 due to misprocurement when a contract was not awarded
to the lowest bidder.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness:  June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation of the project is now some 18 months behind schedule.
Rapid price escalation and high credit costs in the 1978-80 period resulted
in a slow-down in building activity, the rescinding of an important contract
and renegotiation of others, thus delaying implementation of the project's
other physical components and dependent educational objectives. The problem
is being resolved, and in the process EDPITAF has devolved implementation
responsibilities to recipient institutions. The closing date has now been
extended for two years to December 1983. Overall project utilization of
Technical Assistance Specialists is only 20%, while over 80% of Fellowship
time has been committed. Enrolments are about on target and other educational
developments at UPLB and VISCA are proceeding satisfactorily. There is some
tendency to proliferate fields of specialized study and the National Governing
Board of the PTC-RD system has not functioned as planned in reviewing
important changes in policies and programs.
Loan No. 1786 Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Overall physical implementation is behind schedule by about six
months mainly due to the transfer of detailed implementing responsibility from
EDPITAF to the respective project institutions, and to delays in Presidential
approval of civil works contracts (P 2.0 million each). Uncertainties over
where management responsibilities would lie are expected to cause further
delays. Seven of the 13 civil works contracts have now been awarded and
technical assistance is in progress. The Fellowship program is being
implemented on schedule, but the recruitment of consultants has been slow,
also affected by the transfer of implementing responsibility and the delay in
the release of the Obligation Authority for project funds to recipient
institutions. This release is expected shortly. The Bank has recommended
that an interministerial task force be created to review the management
difficulties and other issues which are hampering project implementation.
Loan No. 2030 Elementary Education Sector Loan; $100.0 Million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 10,1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective in November 1981. The project has
made a good start, and project planning is proceeding well. The main



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
difficulties anticipated would arise from the Government's complicated
procurement, payment and accounting procedures.  These difficulties should be
minimized by the transfer of expertise from EDPITAF to the Ministry of
Education, which is responsible for project implementation.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272-T   Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282       $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
On-site infrastructure is about 90% complete and 4,800 plot titles
have been awarded with another 4,000 scheduled by September 1982. Improved
water supply is delayed and now expected by last quarter 1982. The sewer
outfall should be completed by February 1983, the R.10 road in late 1983 and
the C.2 road by april 1984.  The site will be turned over to the local
government shortly.
Loan No. 1415 Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is about one year behind schedule.
Major contracts have been awarded; however, due to unforeseen delays in well
drilling and late deliveries of pipes, progress has been slow. All major
contracts have been let, and better progress is expected through 1982.  Work
has started in four of the six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing
in the remaining two. The construction cost is expected to be close to
appraisal estimates; however, project completion is expected to be delayed by
about one year.
Loan No. 1615 Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project suffered a late start because of initial delays in
approvals of contracts in source development which delayed the construction
of the Bank-financed distribution system component. Nearly all the major
contracts have now been let and no further slippage is expected. However,
because of the high cost of money, many contractors have delayed mobilization
on their contracts.  A water rate increase of P 0.25 plus a 10% waste water
disposal charge were implemented on July 1, 1981.
Loan No. 1647       Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In Manila, problems in funding contracts and poor coordination
between executing agencies, which caused considerable delays and cost over-
runs (50% over appraisal estimates), are now being resolved. Physical works



39 -ANNEX II
page 14 of 18
are expected to be completed by early 1984, 15 months behind schedule.  In
the regional cities, after an initially slow start due to staffing and
political problems, work is underway on all sites and completion is expected
at the end of 1983.
Credit No. 920 Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan No. 1710   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts required under the project have been formed.
Work is under way on the development of a financial planning and control
system, and consultants have started the preparation of a comprehensive
management assistance and training proposal. A new institution, the Rural
Water Supply Development Corporation, has been created, and is now preparing a
list of materials to be procured for rural water supply.
Loan No. 1814 Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project: $63.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding well, with no major problems. Detailed
designs for the Tondo Pumping Station have been completed, and tenders for
sanitary sewers in Dagupan and Pandacan awarded. The organization for the
combined sewer program is in place; staffing and training plans are being
prepared; and equipment for the water quality monitoring program has been
approved for procurement.
Loan No. 1821 Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
Problems of funding and land acquisition have slowed the project.
Disbursements are now 60% of that projected at appraisal, and show an
improving trend. The problem of land for sites and services is expected to
be resolved shortly and contracting is expected to start later this year.
Overall costs are stable. Progress on finalizing policies for ZIP, and
precise agreements with local governments have been slow, but are now about
to be implemented. Preparation of the next phase of basic services programs
is progressing well.
Loan No. 2067 Urban Engineering Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
February 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: May 26, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30,1985
This loan was signed in February 1982 and is expected to be
effective in May 1982. Most of the consultants have been selected.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Power Sector
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1982
The Pantabangan generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities are now expected to be completed by April 1982,
about four years behind schedule. The main delays in the execution of the
transmission system have been due to the slow pace of engineering design and
preparation of tender documents, and delays in procurement.  The revised
project cost estimate is 53% higher than the appraisal estimate. The
closing date of the loan was postponed from June 30, 1981 to March 31,
1982 to allow additional time for payment of retention monies to
contractors.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is now two years behind schedule, mainly due
to delays in the construction of the load dispatching center. The revised
project cost is now estimated at $100 million (including additional works),
8% higher than the original estimate. Due to delays in procurement, and
because of additional works authorized by the Bank, the closing date of the
loan has been extended to December 1983. NPC has still been unable to meet
the 8% rate of return target provided in the Loan Agreement and the
Government has yet to provide specific assurances that appropriate action
will be taken to remedy this. This problem is being followed up by the
Bank.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project is substantially complete, with about $1.2 million
uncommitted. These funds are to be used by NEA for the purchase of equipment
and materials for its 1982 program. NEA's lending to cooperatives for power
development has increased by over 50% in the last two years, and its financial
results and condition continue to be satisfactory according to unaudited
financial statements for 1981. However, NEA's collation of the financial
results of its client cooperatives shows that a number are in financial
difficulties. The Bank is monitoring the situation closely, and is pressing
NEA, as the regulatory agency, to take all necessary remedial steps through
rate increases improvements in management, or other appropriate measures.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1514       Private Development Corpor4tion of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The loan is now fully committed and disbursements as of March 31,
1982, stood at $24.9 million. The project progress is satisfactory. The
closing date might be postponed by one year to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1555       Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is fully committed and disbursements ($13.9 million as of
March 31, 1982) are proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
Loan No. 1572       Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily; the loan allocation
of $29.7 million for this component has been fully committed. However,
commitments under the loan for medium/large industry financing ($50 million)
and related disbursements are slower than anticipated at appraisal. The
closing date might be postponed by 18 months to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1727       Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The IGLF component ($24.5 million) was fully disbursed by October
1981 and overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Disbursements
under the MASICAP component ($0.5 million) are slower than anticipated
because of the recent reorganization within the Ministry of Trade and
Industry. However, this component is expected to be completed before the
current closing date.
Loan No. 1984       Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of May 28,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress has been made in achieving the main objectives
of the project. The Apex Development Finance Unit of the Central Bank has
been successful in meeting the institutional aspects of the project: the



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
commercial Loan Agreement for $100 million was signed on August 7, 1981 on
favorable terms); issues discussed during negotiations relating to individual
participating financial institutions (PFIs) are being dealt with; and
subsidiary loan agreements with individual PFIs are being negotiated and
finalized (after due consultation with the Bank). Commitments by the three
participating financial institutions (PFIs) have started and good progress is
also being made in identifying and appraising new PFIs.  Progress made so far
is in line with expectations, except that the pace of commitments is slower
than anticipated at appraisal.
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903      Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the Government's
industrial development program in support of which the loan was made. The
first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff reform and trade
liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; the second stage of this
program became effective on January 1, 1982. Studies are under way to review
and improve the Government's industrial incentives and promotion system; and
subsector development programs are under preparation to assist domestic
industries to adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization measures.
The two requirements for the release of the second tranche of the loan were
met by the Government in July 1981. The second tranche was subsequently
released and, with the exception of the $5 million technical assistance
component, the $200 million loan has been fully disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
With the exception of some construction in Regions 6 and 9 and water
supplies to rural health units, the project has been substantially completed.
The balance of the loan is expected to be committed by mid-May of this year,
and all works and procurement completed by the closing date of December 31,
1982. This is, however, dependent upon the release of 1982 project funding
by the Budget Ministry. Project implementation is now being handled by the
Ministry of Health, whose performance is gradually improving following the
dissolution of the previous Project Management Service at the time of the
original closing date (December 31, 1979). A major cause for concern,
however, is the project accounting, of which very little has taken place.
This situation has been brought to the attention of the Minister of Health
and is being very closely supervised by Bank staff. All project-related
training activities and staff recruitment programs have been completed.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Information, education and communication activities are substantially com-
pleted, and management information services and technical assistance are
expected to be completed by September of this year.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The earlier slow pace of implementation is now improving with the
Ministry of Budget's advance release of funds to cover the carryover
activities of CY80 and those scheduled for 1981. The release of the 1982
project funds has been delayed, however, by the Ministry of the Budget.
All sites required for scheduled civil works have been acquired and surveyed,
arrangements for construction management and monitoring are being finalized
and the procedures designed to encourage community participation for Barangay
Health Station development under the first project are being applied to those
under the second project. Implementation of the Primary Health Care component
has attained notable momentum; however, activities in training, IEC and pro-
curement lag far behind the appraisal schedule. Greater decentralization of
the implementation responsibilities at regional, provincial and municipal
levels in recent months is expected to accelerate the pace of project
implementation.



- 44 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:              14 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:          FIDC, with the assistance
of FAO/CP
(c) First presentation to the Bank and
first mission to consider the project:  August 1979
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:             September 1980
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                 April 13  1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness;              September 1982
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.       The Borrower would:
(a)  by September 30, 1982, submit the proposal for the reorganization
of BFAR, PFDA and FIDC to the Bank for review (para. 55);
(b)  by December 31, 1982, begin the procedures for implementing these
organizational changes (para. 55);
(c)  by December 31, 1983, substantially complete the reorganization
(para. 55);
(d)  establish, prior to loan effectiveness, a Project Unit (PU) and
secretariat within MNR to supervise the implementation of the
institutional strengthening component (para. 56); and
(e)  onlend $12 million of Bank funds to the fisheries corporation under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (para. 58).



_ 45 -                           ANNEX III
Page2 of 2
2.       The fisheries corporation would:
(a) be managed by a General Manager and two deputy managers (one for
operations and one for finance and administration), to be provided
by the private managing company, with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank (para. 53);
(b)  engage a qualified engineering firm to prepare designs and
tender documents for the area development subproject and to
supervise construction, installation and trial operations of the
facilities and equipment (para. 53); and
(c) establish a credit-in-kind program for fishermen in accordance with
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 54).
3.       The PU would hire a training specialist, with qualifications
acceptable to the Bank, by December 31, 1982. The PU would also prepare a
training program, acceptable to the Bank, for BFAR, PFDA and FIDC, establish
a monitoring and evaluation system satisfactory to the Bank, and
participate, in June 1984, in a review, with the Bank and the fisheries
corporation, to assess the progress of the project (para. 56).
t






Co
~J 41
CA,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
9LU
L.U  UO  
UJ 0 >~~~~~~~~~~~~0A
La~~~~i
z
o
zi_w
:r~~~~~~~~~~~~~J(
N~~~~w



