LOAN NUMBER 2156 PH
Loan Agreement
(National Fisheries Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2156 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    2         , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINE     (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) a portion of the Project will be carried out by the
Samar Sea - Ticao Pass Fisheries Development Corporation (herein-
after referred to as the Corporation' with the Borrower's assist-
ance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Corporation, part of the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Corpora-
tion;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the Gereral Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Corporation" means the Samar Sea - Ticao Pass Fisheries
Development Corporation, a corporation organized and existing
under the Borrower's laws;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and the Corporation of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements' supplemental to
the Project Agreement; and
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Corporation pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrowert
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-two million four hundred thousand dollars ($29,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) procurement of the goods required for Part B of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b) procurement of the goods and civil works required for Part A
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be governed by the provisions of Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to three hundred thirty-one


﻿-3-
thousand thirty-four dollars ($331,034).       The fee shall be
payable in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall specify.
In the event that the Bank shall not have received full payment of
the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amount required for the full payment of the fee in the currency or
currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.090 The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose. To that end, the
Borrower shall make adequate and timely budgetary provisions for
the implementation of Part B of the Project, in line with the
financial requirements of Part B of the Project.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause the Corporation to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action; including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Corporation to perform such


﻿obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) In order to assist in carrying out Part A of the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall make available an amount equivalent to
twelve million dollars ($12,000,000) of the proceeds of the Loan
to the Corporation under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Corporation, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank,
including those set forth in Schedule 5 of this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not Pssign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreetment or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in carrying out Part B of
the Project, the Borrower shall appoint consultants and training
specialists whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of appointment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in
accordance with principles and procedures described on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services required for Part B of the
Project and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the specifications, reports,


﻿-5-
training programs, terms of reference of studies, contract docu-
ments and work and procurement schedules for Part B of the Pro-
ject, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reacnably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part B of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed oit of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in Part B of the
Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning Part B of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, the Bank and the Corporation
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
Project Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan,
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:


﻿-6-
(a) develop a program satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor
and evaluate the Project and by March 31, 1983 begin to implement
such program; and
(b) by June 30, 1984 review with the Bank the execution
of the Project, in order to prepare recommendations, as necessary,
for improving Project execution.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) by September 30, 1982 furnish to the Bank for its
review, proposals for organizational changes in the Bureau of
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, the Philippine Fisheries Develop-
ment Authority and the Fishery Industry Development Council;
(b) by December 31, 1982 begin the procedures for implemen-
tation of such organizational changes which are satisfactory to
the Bank; and
(c) by December 31, 1984 substantially complete the afore-
said implementation.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain with powers, resources, composition and staff satisfac-
tory to the Bank, a Project Unit and a secretariat, within the
Ministry of Natural Resources responsible for implementation of
Part B of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the Project Unit to employ a training specialist
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment;
(b)  cause the Project Unit to develop, and by December 31,
1982 to implement a training program satisfactory to the Bank for
the staff of the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, the
Philippine Fisheries Development Authority and the Fishery Indus-
try Development Council; and
(c) award or cause to be awarded fellowships under the
Project to appropriately qualified candidates, in accordance
with selection criteria and award procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any government assets as
security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto, equally and ratably, and at no
cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any
such lien express provision will be made to that effect. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any
such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "government assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippine,s or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of
its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Bor-
rower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part B of
Nw


﻿-8-
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out Part B of the Project or any part
thereof, including inventory records and statements on sources and
uses of funds.
(b) The Borrower shall cause its departments or agencies
responsible for carrying out Part B of the Project or any part
thereof, to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements in
respect of Part B of the Project for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of such financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the goods, including
vehicles and vpssels under Part B of the Project, to be operated
and maintained in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and engineering policies and practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all such action as may
be necessary, including the provision of equity to the Corpora-
tion, to enable the Corporation to comply with the provisions of
Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Corporation shall have failed to perform any
covenant, agreement or obligation of the Corporation under the
Project Agreement.


﻿-9-
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Corporation will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Presidential Decree Number 704 of 1975 as ora4nded,
the Presidential Decree Number 977 of 1976 as amended, the Letter
of Instruction Number 459 of 1976, the Articles of Incorporation
of the Corporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a
way as to materially and adversely affect the implementation of
the Project, the carrying out of the Borrower's obligation under
this Agreement, or the ability of the Corporation to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Corporation or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of the Corporation have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Corporation; and


﻿- 10 -
(c) the Project Unit referred to in Section 3.08 of this
Agreement shall have been established.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:   (a)   that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Corporation, and is legally
binding upon the Corporation in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and the Corporation and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Corporation in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date               /     , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 1.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                              7550 CBP-PH
Manila                              0268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRK                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By//
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Part A of the Project
(a) Civil works              6,500,000       50%
(b) Equipment,               4,600,000
materials,
vehicles and
vessels
(i) directly                             100% of foreign
imported                            expenditures
(ii) locally                             100% of local
manufactured                        expenditures
(ex-factory)
(iii) locally                             65%
procured
(c) Consultants'             1,000,000       100%
Services
Sub-Total         12,100,000


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       4xpenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(2) Part B of the Project
(a) Equipment,               5,200,000
materials,
vehicles and
vessels
(i) directly                             100% of foreign
imported                            expenditures
(ii)  locally                             100% of local
manufactured                         expendItures
(ex-factory)
(iii)  locally                             65%
procured
(b) Consultants'             1,500,000        100%
services and
studies
(c) Training                 1,000,00        100% of foreign
expenditures
and 60% of local
expenditures
Sub-Total          7,700,000
(3) Fee                             331,034         Amount due
(4) Unallocated                   2,268,966
TOTAL             22,400,000


﻿- 14-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by-notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 15 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would 6the'rwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.'


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of, the Project
The Project -is part of the Borrower's program to improve the
fisheries sector, and consists of'the following Parts:
Part A:   Area Development
Provision of facilities, equipment, materials, vehicles
and services including landing places, ice plants, ice and
chill storage, carrier boats, marketing and other supporting
services at Bulan, San Jacinto, Miaga, Cataingan and Placer in the
Masbate/Ticao area, and Catbalogan and Santo Nino in Western
Samar.
Part B:   Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening of the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Re-
sources, Philippine Fisheries Development Authority and Fishery
Industry Development Council through the provision of training,
equipment and technical assistance; and studies to assist fisher-
ies development.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1988.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1987
through   September 1, 2001                  745,000
On March 1, 2002,                                 795,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   5.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                   9.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                  10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                  11.60%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement under Part B of the Project
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for - Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition. to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to th. date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3. For bidding purposes scientific equipment, and motor vehicles
including motorcycles, shall each be grouped to the extent
practicable in such a manner as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank so as to permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the eviluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods maiufactured in
the Philippines if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Philippines equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes* levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 21 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
groirl  bid; or (ii) 15% of the r.i.f. bid price of such goods
if cKid customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as. a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.,
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Construction of vessel hulls by prequalified shipyards, and
procurement of marine engines from prequalified shipyards, shall
be carried out in accordance with the Borrower's competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Library, office and communications equipment, and spare parts
shall be procured in accordonce with the Borrower's procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. If prequalification is required,
the Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall intro-
duce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The list .of.prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments befire t -
applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifi-
cations in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 22 -
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
if the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shrll, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
(e) Purchase of the research vessel is to be carried out
only after the Bank has reviewed and approved a report on research
vessel requirements by a marine engineering consultant appointed
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms, and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or


﻿- 23 -
issuing any change order under such contract .(except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original, price, the Rorrowe.r shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification,.waiver,,extension or
change ordar and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿-24-
SCHEDULE 5
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Principal Terms and Conditions'
Amounk-:                        $12)000,000 equivalent
Period                          20 years including 5 years of
grace
Interest rate                   11-3/5% per annum
Commitment charge               to be paid by the Corporation
Foreign exchange risk           to be borne by the Borrower
with the Corporation paying
the Borrower a foreign exchange
fee


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day ofI     , 198 .
FOR SECRETARY


