FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-159 7-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
.OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
INDIA
FOR THE AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
April 3, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 19, 1975)
US$1.00              -    RS  7.81
Rs. 1.00                  US$0.128
Rs. 1 million             US$128,086
(The Rupee is officially valued at a fixed Pound Sterling
rate. As the Pound is now floating relative to the US
Dollar, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in the appraisal report were made at
US$1 to Rs. 8.00.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Government of India (GOI) for the equivalent of
US$75 million on standard IDA terms. The credit would support the activities
of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) in providing credit to farmers
for on-farm development purposes, mainly minor irrigation. The credit would
also finance an intensified training program for staff of land development
banks (LDB) and a study of the possibilities and problems of merging the short
and long-term cooperative credit systems.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(402-IN, dated May 7, 1974) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 20, 1974. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size, diversity, and the difficulty of its economic conditions. India's
economic policies and performance have their shortcomings, many of which are
attributable to the open political system, where the reconciliation of
conflicting political views tends to inhibit optimal economic solutions;
others are due to the sheer magnitude of the task facing the Government.
Governing a country divided into more than 20 states with a population
of some 580 million and over 60 languages is an extraordinary responsibility.
The country's poverty and poor natural resource endowment, supplemented by
a net transfer of external resources averaging in recent years well below
US$1 per head per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth.
Any judgment of India's economic performance must take these underlying cir-
cumstances into account. So, also, must account be taken of the uncertainties
imposed by the erratic availability of water. A bad monsoon, which is in-
evitable from time to time, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy
and wipes out the results of years of effort.
4.        In the past 25 years, national income has grown at nearly 4% per
annum, which compares very favorably with the average annual growth rate of
less than 1% during the preceding 50 years. Population has also grown faster
in the past two decades than previously, but per capita income has neverthe-
less risen from a more or less stagnant level in the first half of this cen-
tury to achieve an average growth of roughly 1% a year since independence.
5.        Progress has been impressive on many fronts, but disappointing on
others, and has all too often fallen short of India's massive needs. The
growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport, education, health
services, etc.) has been spectacular, but has often been achieved at high



- 2 -
cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many industrial and agri-
cultural investment schemes have been highly successful, but others have taken
excessively long to be completed and have operated well below full capacity.
In some regions of the country, growth and structural change have been rapid
and compare favorably with developments in many other parts of the world,
but in other regions there has been stagnation and possibly even decline.
Despite these improvements and although the distribution of income in India
is relatively even by comparison with many other countries, there has been
little impact upon the living standards of the vast masses of the urban
and rural population. The Government has become increasingly concerned
about the plight of the lower income strata, which consist of some 200 million
people with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year, and has initiated
in recent years a variety of programs specifically designed to alleviate
poverty.
6.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change. Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, accounting for some 45% of national product in
the early 1970s compated with around 49% twenty years previously. The share
of output contributed by the industrial sector has increased only slowly
and since the late 1960s has remained approximately constant at a level of
23%. There has, however, been a shift in the composition of industrial
production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital goods now contributing
about one-third each, compared with an overwhelming preponderence of consumer
goods production 25 years ago.
7.        The economic report of May 1974 contained a review of the immense
difficulties confronting the Indian economy as the Fourth Plan period drew
to a close. The final year of the Plan, 1973/74, witnessed a severe deteriora-
tion in India's terms of trade which was led by, but by no means restricted
to, the dramatic increase in oil prices. The resulting balance of payments
difficulties were compounded by the need for food imports following the
drought of 1972/73, in order to sustain the public distribution system on
which the poorest section of society is particularly dependent. Given India's
pervasively agricultural economy, the drought also had the effect of slowing
down economic activity which was further aggravated by infrastructure
constraints, particularly widespread power shortages and labor problems of
Indian Railways.  Food shortages and other scarcities touched off an unpre-
cedented inflationary spiral fueled by large budgetary deficits which were
at least partly attributable to mounting expenditures for drought relief.
The inflation in turn contributed to labor unrest while efforts to cope with
it through budgetary cuts affected, among other things, the level of real
expenditures for development programs.
8.        Thus, at the commencement of the Fifth Plan period (1974/75-1978/79)
the most urgent tasks facing policy makers were: to get agricultural pro-
duction moving again; to bring inflation under control; to reduce India's
dependence on oil imports by compressing energy consumption and by formulating
and implementing programs to develop domestic energy sources; to boost export
earnings and to tap additional sources of aid in order to sustain imports;
and, finally, to maintain a minimunm investment program so as to avoid economic



- 3 -
standstill in the longer run. Even in the best of times, it would have been
extremely difficult to pursue simultaneously such a variety of potentially
inconsistent objectives.
9.        Events since the preparation of the last economic report provide
little encouragement. For the second time in the last three years, the weather
has let down India's farmers with the result that the kharif (fall) crop
recently harvested is believed to be considerably below the previous year's
(about 60 million tons as compared with 67 million tons). The outlook for
the present rabi (spring) crop is quite encouraging despite continuing short-
ages of power for irrigation pumps and fertilizer shortages. However the
reduced availability of foodgrains and the depletion of official food stocks
during the course of 1974, the inflationary setting and frequent changes in
the Government's food procurement policy have led to hoarding for both specu-
lative and insurance purposes, thus making procurement for public distribution
extremely difficult.
10.       The balance of payments situation is likely to remain difficult
in the current year as there will be a continued need for foodgrain imports,
hopefully at a somewhat lower level than the 6-7 million tons required last
year, and because there is little evidence of a major break in the prices of
other commodities imported in substantial quantities by India (e.g. oil,
fertilizers, steel, non-ferrous metals, rock phosphate). One of the few
bright spots in the balance of payments picture has been the growth of export
earnings. Export earnings recorded an unprecedented increase of about 22%
in 1973/74 and are expected to rise again by 29% in 1974/75. While these
increases - particularly that in 1973/74 - are primarily attributable to
unit value increases caused by worldwide inflation, there is greater willing-
ness to take advantage of export opportunities, as illustrated most dra-
matically by the recent diversion of sugar from domestic consumption to
exports.
11.       Nevertheless, despite the increase in export earnings, India is
expected to run a massive trade deficit this year - probably of the order
of US$1,800 million as compared with US$560 million in 1973/74 and a negli-
gible one the previous year. Moreover, despite the magnitude of the current
deficit, it is unlikely that India's imports, excluding foodgrains, will
be as large in volume as in 1972/73. In addition to financing a trade
deficit of this order, India will have to meet debt service payments of about
US$730 million. These financing requirements will be partly offset through
Consortium assistance and Non-Consortium aid (including assistance from
oil producing countries), which are together expected to reach disbursement
levels of about US$1,750 million in 1974/75 compared with about US$1,175 in
1973/74. Nevertheless, these various sources of financing hardly measure up
to India's current requirements. India will have to draw on her foreign
exchange reserves, which, at about US$1,400 million, are currently equivalent
to less than three months of imports. During FY 1974/75 India has drawn
down her first credit tranche in the IMF for US$282 million, as well as her
gold tranche for US$91 million. The Government has also taken advantage of
the Oil Facility from which US$240 million was drawn in October.



- 4 -
12.       On the domestic front, the Government's present efforts are con-
centrated primarily on maximizing production in key sectors through a system
of priorities in the allocation of scarce resources and through careful
monitoring of developments and performance. In agriculture this entails
provision of power on a priority basis for minor irrigation and fertilizer
production and allocation of adequate foreign exchange for as much fertilizer
as can be imported from the limited world supplies. Similarly, efforts are
being made to identify production bottlenecks in such sectors as fertilizer
production, coal mining and power generation; and special arrangements exist
for meeting expeditiously the foreign exchange requirements of these sectors
for such items as captive power units where appropriate, spares and replace-
ment parts. The railways are also tied into this system and accord priority
to the movement of goods required by these sectors. In the fertilizer, coal
and power sectors, senior officials are provided on a continuing basis witil
detailed production figures along witlh explanations for production shortfalls.
Attempts are also being made to rationalize tne administrative machinery of
the Government in these sectors, as evidenced by the October 1974 decision
to bring irrigation under the wing of the Food and Agriculture Ministry
and to regroup power generation and coal mining under an Energy Ministry.
13.       The recent discovery of new oil reserves offshore in the Bombay
High structure has considerably improved prospects for domestic oil produc-
tion, which presently accounts for about 7 to 8 million tons or one third
of India's consumption. It is still too early to give a firm estimate of
the overall level of extractable reserves concentrated there, but it is pos-
sible that in the early 1980s output from this field could double the present
domestic production. So, even after allowing for some increase in demand, it
is possible that Bombay High production could reduce India's future oil
import needs considerably.   However, the feasibility of the program to extract
Bombay High oil will depend upon the availability of expertise, finance and
equipment, and while the Government of India may be able to overcome the first
two constraints, the international scarcity of offshore oil extraction equip-
ment may delay exploitation.
14.       In the short term, however, there are limits to the extent to which
India's dependence on oil imports can be reduced and production of domestic
sources of energy can be stepped up. Insofar as the compression of demand
for oil products is concerned, these 'Limits are determined, on the one hand,
by the relatively small proportion of oil products used for private con-
sumption (possibly one-sixth) and, on the otiher hand, by the limited avail-
ability of domestic substitutes (i.e. coal and power). 'The 13 million tons
of crude oil plus 3 million tons of product imports planned for the current
year probably represent the lower limit beyond which these imports cannot be
curbed withiout serious repercussions on domestic productior.. Had consumption
been allowed to grow in line with recent trends, the present level of crude
and product imports taken together would probably be of the order of at
least 18 million tons.



-5-
15.       A major effort is being made to use existing capacity as fully as
possible throughout the economy. To this end, despite the serious balance
of payments problem described above, the Government is pursuing a relatively
liberal policy toward imports of raw materials required by industry. Never-
theless, it is hard to get away from the current infrastructure constraints
and particularly the shortage and unreliability of power supplies which,
though somewhat eased, continue to affect production. Fiscal and monetary
policies, including the cutback in budgetary expenditures and limitations
on bank credit, are also restraining industrial output; and there is some
evidence that, due to rapidly rising food prices and the consequent erosion
of real purchasing power, the demand for some consumer items and industrial
projects is being affected. Given the various constraints, there is likely
to be little or no industrial growth in the current year which, in combina-
tion with the current agricultural situation, makes it unlikely that there
will be any GNP growth either. In regard to inflation, the Government has
made impressive efforts to curb budgetary expenditures and to tap additional
sources of revenue. In spite of continuing food shortages and other scarcities,
these actions appear now to have achieved some results as the rate of inflation
had declined to 23% by the end of November, 1974.
16.       In present circumstances the Draft Fifth Plan, published in late
1973, has not been finalized. In real terms investment in the current Annual
Plan is about 30% below the annual level implicit in the Draft Fifth Plan,
and even this is unlikely to be reached. To adjust to reduced resource
availability a number of investments are being postponed. Expenditures on
some of the social sectors such as education and family planning are unfor-
tunately also affected. The focus once again is primarily on investments
in key sectors such as fertilizer, coal, power, and steel, and quite rightly
within these sectors the emphasis is on completing ongoing investments before
committing resources to new schemes.
17.       In the long run, given her groundwater, coal, hydroelectric, iron
ore, non-ferrous metals and human resources, India undoubtedly has the capa-
bility to overcome her present difficulties.   It is, however, clear that to
overcome them and to resume the interrupted process of economic development,
India will require substantially larger capital inflows than foreseen by the
authors of the Draft Fifth Plan. It is equally clear that as large as possi-
ble a proportion of these requirements should be provided on concessional
terms. However, even on very optimistic assumptions regarding India's success
in narrowing her resource gap and the response of both Consortium and other
donors, a gap will remain between external financing requirements and the
availability of concessional aid.
18.       India's external public debt outstanding on Mfarch 31, 1973, stood
at US$9.9 billion. As a consequence of world-wide inflation and its effects
on India's export earnings, service payments of about US$730 million due
on thiis debt in 1974/75 are expected to be equivalent to about 17% of
merchandise exports as compared with about 26% in 1972/73. However, sub-
stantial additional debt will have to be incurred as a result of increases



- 6-
in the prices of India's imports. In the future, therefore, the debt service
ratio is likely to rise, given the magnitude of India's requirements and the
unavoidability of having to finance part of these on non-concessional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 43 loans and 67 development
credits to India totalling US$1,338 million and US$3,295 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$679 million has been
repaid, and US$1,319 million was still undisbursed as of February 28, 1975.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of February 28,
1975, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$51.8
million, of which US$8.0 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$29.9 million, US$22.8 million
represents loans and US$7.1 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of February 28, 1975 is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting
minor irrigation and other on farm investments throughi agricultural credit
operations. Major irrigation, marketing and seed development are other
agricultural activities supported by thle Ban'k Group.  In recognition of the
importance of adequate fertilizer supplies for agricultural output, the Bank
Group has been active in financing the expansion of fertilizer production.
Apart from investmeuits in fertilizer plants, tie Bank Group hias lent support
co the industrial sector througih its sizeable assistance to development
finance institutioins.  IDA fiaancing oF industrial raw rLaterials and com-
poneilts for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating
better capacitv utilization in thiese sectors.   The Bank Group lhas also been
active in supPort:ling infrastructure development for power, teleco-nununications,
and railvmavs.  Faniily planaing, education, water supply development, and
related urban investments hlave also received Bank Group support in recent
years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistelnt with India's needs and thLe Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriC.ulLure, industry, power, and transport remains hiighly
relevant.  Tihe priority of tile agricultural sector has been further ennanced
by tihe present world commodity situation.  Thus, proiects designed to foster
agricultural productiori throug, the provision of essential inputs such as
credit fo,r on-farm investments, coumsand area development of existing irriga-
tio01 schemes, and seed priduction form an important aspect of the Dank Group's
VLo:grami iJr tone new:ye-irs. -Secial empllhiasis will be given to projects bene-
fittini snall farmers and lanliess laborers.   Lendiag in support of infra-
ritcLue knd industrial lnvestmentLs Will focus on energy-related projects.



-7-
Repeater credits for power and railways have high priority in this context,
and discussions are under way with the Government in an effort to identify
and prepare projects specifically designed to facilitate coal production
and coal transport. Lending for fertilizer projects, which has been an im-
portant feature in recent years, is expected to occupy an even more prominent
place in the future program.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources
in support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic
reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing at a time
when output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically different
price situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical industrial
raw materials and components continues to be an essential element within the
overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures.   India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agricul-
ture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make
an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors,
it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
24.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion contri-
buted by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70 the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12%
of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 35%, 27% and 37%, respec-
tively, in 1973/74, and the contribution of the Bank Group is expected to
continue growing. Whereas on March 31, 1973, the Bank Group's share of
India's outstanding external public debt was 21%, by 1979 it is likely to
account for about 25%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predomi-
nantly in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise
slowly. In 1973/74 about 12% of India's total debt service payments were
to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN INDIA
General
25.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India, it engages
70% of the labor force, contributes presently about 45% of GNP, and accounts
for a major share of exports. GOI's emphasis in the agricultural sector in
recent years has been to increase the output of foodgrain through increasing
the availability of inputs, including seed, fertilizer, agricultural credit
and irrigation. Even so, due to drought and the lack of fertilizer and
other inputs, India is still not able to produce all the food needed to be
self sufficient and has to import substantial amounts of foodgrains, result-



- 8 -
ing in a large drain on foreign exchange reserves. Consequently, investments
to encourage foodgrain production have been given top priority by the Govern-
ment, and deserve continued emphasis over the next five years.
26.       Since independence, the overall growth of agricultural production
has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth in the
agriculture sector obscures considerable variations over shorter periods,
between crops and between regions. The overall rate has been very much af-
fected by the serious droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972. Never-
theless, the success of high yielding varieties of wheat produced increases
in wheat production of about 20% p.a. between 1967 and 1971.    Other foodgrain
crops, notably rice, have not enjoyed anything like the same success, as the
introduction of high yielding varieties has encountered difficulties arising
from local climatic and ecological conditions. The effects of the green
revolution, which primarily affected wheat, have been concentrated in north
western India, very largely on account of the advanced state of agriculture
in that area and the availability of irrigation. It is now necessary to spread
this technology to other regions, especially to north eastern India.
27.       Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production,
India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon adequate rainfall. The
impact of drought in recent years, especially in 1972, underlines India's
need to exploit as fully and as quickly as possible its irrigation potential,
not only as an insurance against future monsoon failures, but to achieve tile
marketable surpluses which only greatly intensified cropping based on the
irrigation of farm land can provide. Over the first half of the twentieth
century, the area under irrigation in India increased by only about 1% p.a.
to reach slightly more than 20 million hectares in 1950/51, or about one
fifth of India's cultivated land. By 1973/74 it is estimated that about
36 million hectares are under irrigation representing about one quarter of
the total net sown area.   Out of thiese 36 million hectares, about 56% is
irrigated by wells, tanks, and river lift installations.
28.       Irrigation development has appropriately received increased atten-
tion since independence, and substantial resources wtere devoted to it through-
out the four Five-Year Plans.   Outlays for irrigation development during the
first three plans and during tne t.iree Anniual Plans 1966-69 totalled Rs 26.8
billion, and the Fourtn Plan allocated Rs 16 billion to irrigation. In the
Fifth Plan an increase in irrigated area of 6 million hectares is planned
agairnst an achievement of about 4 million hectares in the Fourth Plan period.
Investmenits in minor irrigation, coming mostly from private and institutional
sources, have played a significant role in India's achiievement of large
production gains in agriculture. Farmers in Punjab, Haryana and other green
revolution states attribute much of their success to water being available
at t:ie right time from thieir own wells.  Tihe scope for continued development
of groundwater resources is great since less than half tne potential area
ihas been developed.



-9-
Agricultural Credit
29.       Access to credit is crucial if the rural smallholder is to make ilis
land more productive. Without credit lhe cannot develop ilis water resources
nor acquire other agricultural inputs he needs - improved seeds, fertilizer,
pesticides and machinery.   Small farmers, generally, spend less than 20% of
what is required on such inputs because they simply do not have the necessary
financing. The continued emphasis on providing an institutional framework
for delivery of credit to rural areas is essential to the development of
smallholder agriculture.
30.       Traditionally, private money lenders and cooperative credit soci-
eties have been the principal sources of agricultural credit in rural areas
with the bulk of credit coming from private sources. In terms of institu-
tional sources production (seasonal) credit is mainly provided by coopera-
tive credit societies and to a limited extent by commercial banks as they have
begun to penetrate rural areas. Investment (medium and long-term) credit
needs are supplied mostly by state Land Development Banks (LDB) and to some
extent by commercial banks. In recent years the proportion of institutional
credit has been steadily increasing. At present, about 30% of farmers' bor-
rowings are from financial institutions whose share of total rural credit is
expected to rise to 50% or more during the Fifth Plan.
31.       The serious lack of institutional credit, particularly for term
finance for agricultural investment, was first quantified during the All-India
Credit Survey undertaken in 1951-52, but it was not until 1963 that the
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and GOI took important action to deal with the
problem.  A special agency was set up, the Agricultural Refinance Corpora-
tion (ARC), in an attempt to help fill the void in institutional credit for
on-farm investment. The objectives of ARC are to provide medium and long-
term finance to agricultural credit institutions and to guide them toward
a development-oriented approach.
32.       ARC has made significant progress in carrying out its goals and,
since 1970, has been the channel for ten IDA agricultural credit projects,
each in a different state of India. Nine of these projects have nad minor
irrigation as the major component. The successful relationship that has
been developed between IDA and ARC through tihese projects and ARC's growing
competence as an agricultural development institution have provided tihe
basis for the present project described in the following section. In addi-
tion, ARC has participated in six other IDA projects, including two in mar-
kets development, one in apple processing and marketing and three in dairy
development.
33.       Despite its relative success, there are several factors which have
impeded ARC's efforts to expand the flow of credit to rural areas. Drought
and shortages of essential inputs such as power and fertilizer have dampened
credit demand. Also, many LDBs suffer from high overdues, making them
financially weak and ineligible for ARC refinance, especially under IDA



- 10 -
credits, where financial standards are highier. Adverse weather and economic
conditions have contributed to the problem of high overdues, but even as
importantly, they are the result of weak LDB management and technical support.
Through more thorough appraisal of loans and improved technical assistance and
follow-up, LDBs should be able to achieve a significant reduction in overdues.
The key to upgrading LDB effectiveness lies in staff training, for which a
comprefiensive program is planned under the project.   RBI and ARC have long
been aware of the overdues problem, and efforts to alleviate it have resulted
in some overall improvement, particularly in fiscal 1974. Nevertheless, it
is a point of continuing concern.
34.       The total cost of the ongoing ten credit projects is about US$575
million of which IDA is contributing US$320 million (55%). According to
original appraisal estimates, about US$239 million was to have been disbursed
by March 31, 1975 compared to about US$149 million actually disbursed as of
that date, representing about 63% of original targets. Disbursements per-
formance varies, however, depending upon the particular project components
involved. Cumulative disbursements for minor irrigation, for example, were
about US$135 million as of March 31, 1975, or about 80% of appraisal estimates.
On the other hand, as of tne same date, cumulative disbursements for tractors
and other categories were about US$14 million representing an achievement of
only 20% of original appraisal estimates. It is largely as a result of delays
in these latter categories, especially tractors, that disbursements are
behind schedule. The number of loans for land levelling hias been far below
the expected level due to weak civil works contracting, and especially to low
farmer demand as a result of uncertainty over land ceiling legislation and
the benefits of land levelling. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in the supply and demand situations after the projects were originally
appraised which prompted GOI to request that indigenous, as well as imported,
models be made eligible for IDA financing under these credits. The Executive
Directors approved this request in December 1973, and subsequently tractor
procurement has proceeded reasonably well. Demand for tractors is expected
to be sufficient to exhaust credit funds for tractors.
PART IV - TiE PROJECT
35        The project was prepared by the staff of ARC and submitted to IDA
in November 1973. An appraisal of the project was completed based upon an
appraisal mission to India in February/March 1974 and subsequent discussions
with GOI and ARC both in Washington and in India. Negotiations were held
in Washington from February 21, 1975 to Marchi 5, 1975. The Borrower was
represented by Messrs. A.K. Dutt, Joint Secretary, Banking; M.K. Mukharji,
Joint Secretary, Rural Development; S.K. Banerjee, Joint Secretary, Agricul-
ture; and D. Basu, Under Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs. ARC
was represented by Mr. M.A. Chidambaranm, Managing Director. A report en-
titled "Appraisal of Agricultural Refinance Corporation Credit Project"



(Report No. 562a-IN dated March 15, 1975) is being circulated to the Execu-
tive Directors separately. A credit and project summary is attached as
Annex III.
The Project Description
36.       The project would support a two-year ARC program of lending to
farmers and an intensive training program primarily for staff of LDBs. The
main focus would be on a continuation of minor irrigation development to
assist in increasing India's food production, and on staff training to enable
the main rural banking institutions to meet more effectively the growing
credit needs of India agriculture. It is the first Bank Group agricultural
credit project in India designed on a multi-state basis. The project would
cover repeater schemes in states with on-going IDA projects after the IDA
funds for taiem were exhausted, and schemes in states not currently involved
in such projects, including the less developed areas of tile north and north-
east. The project would also enable IDA to be associated with many schemes
too small for IDA to appraise separately.
37.       The project would provide loans to approximately 105,000 individual
and groups of farmers. The minor irrigation component would involve loans
primarily for wells and pumpsets, to supply an estimated 180,000 ha with
irrigation water. US$69 million of the credit would be allocated for minor
irrigation.
38.       Credit would also be provided to farmers for development of tree
crops, dairy and poultry, sericulture, and fisheries. The US$5 million
allocated for these diversified lending purposes represents about the same
proportion (8%) which diversified lending constitutes of current ARC operations.
39.       Of the total US$74 million allocated for minor irrigation and
diversified investment, US$37 million would be reserved for small farmers
who would qualify for preferential borrowing terms provided that their
anticipated income was adequate to repay thie loan over a prescribed period.
The project would introduce a new definition of small farmer based upon
predevelopment income.    A farm family earning Rs. 2,000 or less per year (or
about US$50 per capita) would be entitled to participate in the project under
less stringent terms for down payment and repayment period.
40.       The training component would include immediate training for senior
and middle level management staff of LDB. Immediate, intense training is
needed to accelerate the improvement of LDB performance. Also included is a
study to be undertaken in each State to define the training needs for lower
level staff of LDB after which a suitable training program would be started.
The focus of the training program would be on improved lending and recovery
techniques, leading to an overall improvement in operating efficiency.
41.       A study would be completed under the project to explore the
feasibility of merging the two credit cooperative systems in the country.
As indicated in paragraph 30 above, farmers must generally look to different



- 12 -
sources to obtain short and long term credit. This creates a number of
difficulties, among them a problem of security and the study would explore
ways to provide farmers with a single credit source to meet all of their needs.
ARC Description
42.       ARC would be responsible for carrying out the project.    ARC is well
qualified in terms of staff competence and experience to undertake the task.
During fiscal year 1974, ARC disbursed refinance assistance amounting to
US$122 million, up from US$108 million the year before, and sanctioned 550
new lending schemes representing commitments of US$314 million. The aggre-
gate disbursement by ARC since its inception amounts to US$400 million
representing total agricultural investment of about US$500 million when
contributions of banks, state governments and ultimate beneficiaries are
taken into account. In its eleven years of activity, the ARC has assisted
in bringing under multiple cropping about .7 million ha through the refinancing
of about 90,000 tubewells, 150,000 dugwells, and 200,000 pumpsets. While the
bulk of ARC refinance has been for minor irrigation, accounting for 80%,
its activities also include refinance for mechanized fishing boats, tractors,
storage, milk cattle, and poultry.
43.       ARC had grown to a professional staff of 233 and 15 regional offices
as of December 31, 1973.   ARC has a nine member Board of Directors.   Tile
Chairman is a D)eputy Governor of RBI. ARC's shareholders include RBI, State
Land Development Banks, State Cooperative Banks, the Life Insurance Corpora-
tion of India, commercial banks and investment companies.
44.       ARC derives its operating funds through borrowings from GOI, RBI
and the market as well as from profits on investments. Its GOI borrowings
represent mainly the flow of IDA funds to ARC under ongoing projects. As of
the end of FY74, ARC's sources of funds were as follows: capital and reserves,
I"s. 165 million; GOI borrowings, Ks. 1,635 million; PSI borrowings, Rs. 656
million; and capital market borrowings, Rs. 662 million.
45.       Its operations are conducted mostly through the refinancing or
lending schemes undertaken by state LDBs which accounted for about 87% of
ARC's total refinance of Rs. 3,000 million through FY1974. Commercial banks
accounted for 9% and state cooperative banks, 4%.    ARC's profits ihave increased
every year and reached a satisfactory rate of return (about 3.3% on refinance
granted) and it has steadily built up reserves to a satisfactory level.
46.       The schemes which ARC supports are mostly area development programs
for a particular type of investment on a large number of farms in a compact
area within a single state. The average size of investment in each scheme
is about Rs. 4.8 million. Schemes are assessed by ARC in terms of technical
and economic feasibility and ARC has developed a staff of experts in
groundwater development, soil conservation, horticulture, animal husbandry,
and fisheries.  The appraisal covers not only the economic and financial
feasibility of the schemes, but also the administrative, organizational,



- 13 -
and credit requirements for their successful implementation. ARC has also paid
special attention to schemes designed to benefit small farmers. During fiscal
1974 it sanctioned 42 schemes sponsored by the Small Farmers Development and
Marginal Farmers and Agricultural Laborers agencies (SFDA/MFDA), including
eleven in the depressed eastern and nortlh eastern regions of India.
47.       During the next few years ARC plans to step up the pace of its
investments, particularly in minor irrigation, to diversify its lending
program, to achieve a more even spread of investments in different regions
(particularly in the lesser developed states in the eastern and north eastern
regions having major untapped groundwater resources), and to improve the
quality of its lending. ARC expects to double the amount refinanced over
the next five years, reaching a total of about Rs 9 billion.
48.       ARC's main role in initial IDA credits was to act as the financing
channel for funds going through the banking system. Project preparation
and appraisal were done by IDA. However, over the 5-year period since IDA's
first involvement with ARC, ARC has participated to an increasing degree in
project preparation and, as an institution, has undergone significant change.
It has emerged as a soundly managed, responsible development institution
staffed by well-trained and competent personnel. It has gained experience
through participation in numerous IDA and non-IDA projects. It has come to
be recognized as a capable institution and an authority in agricultural devel-
opment banking by state LDBs, commercial banks and state agricultural author-
ities. Under the project, ARC would assume many of the functions formerly
performed by IDA including appraisal of lending schemes in the various
states. 'Most investment under the project would be for minor irrigation and
ARC would appraise and finance the specific lending schemes involved.   Diver-
sified lending schemes, with wihich ARC has less experience, would be sent to
IiDA for prior approval when investment under a schieme exceeded US$500,0(Y).
Project Implementation
49.       Project financing and organizational arrangements would generally
follow the pattern established under the ten existing IDA-supported agricul-
tural credit projects. The proceeds of the credit for minor irrigation and
diversified lending would be used by ARC to refinance up to 90% of partici-
pating banks' loans.  ARC would enter into refinance agreements with
participating banks under which eligibility conditions and relending terms
as agreed with IDA would be applied. For cooperative banks these conditions
would include standards regulating the maximum level of overdues which a
bank could sustain and still be eligible to receive ARC refinance. The
maximum level of overdues permissible would be 25%, with the additional
provision that the bank must have collected on its own at least 65% of debt
service due; the State government providing the balance of up to 10% as
redeemable equity, if necessary. This standard emphasizes the need for
cooperative banks to achieve viability not through injection of State govern-
mental capital, but through their own efforts at recovering loans as they
become due. To encourage project participation and strengthening of LDBs



- 14 -
in areas not included in former IDA credit projects, an interim, two year
formula regarding overdues was agreed. Under this formula, LDBs would be
eligible to receive ARC refinance according to an upward sliding scale
arrangement which links the amount of refinancing for which a bank is
eligible to its recoveries performance. An LDB would be eligible to receive
a percentage of the refinance received the previous year, depending upon
current year recoveries. Further, any bank that falls in performance from
one year to the next and achieves a recoveries level below 75% loses its
eligibility to receive refinance from ARC. 1/ The refinance agreement
would also govern interest rates and otner termis of onlending to farmers;
provide criteria to be applied to ensure proper groundwater control such
as well spacing guidelines; and provide a revised definition of small
farmers and the special terms to be applied to loans to them. 2/
50.       One aspect of LDB financing which has hampered efforts to achieve
stricter and more effective financial control concerns the issuance of LDB
debentures. Presently, about half of LI)B financing comes from ARC through
ARC's purchase of "special" LDB debentures.    The otiher half is obtained
through the flotation of "general" debentures approved by the Reserve Bank
of India (RBI). This split of financial control over LDB has contributed
to uneven financial performance standards for LDB, and is a hindrance to
efforts to strengthen and upgrade the LDB. Consequently, GOI agreed that
the same financial criteria as applied by ARC would be applied as nearly
as possible to all LDB debentures. As a condition of effectiveness, a
joint committee would be established, including members from RBI and ARC,
to monitor tihe issuance of LDB debentures. 3/  A study group would be
appointed to examine the current methods of authorizing and issuing debentures
and to make recommendations on tne best method of controlling future issues
and avoiding duplication of scarce managerial and techn1ical staff by RBI and
ARC. 4/
51.       A project evaluation system would be establisie-d by ARC to measure
and evaluate the impact on farmers from project invest,ients.   The system
wqould also provide assistance in improviing! fuLure project -oreparation and
appraisal.  It would be implemented by ARC aftcir a(greemeont with IDA, and
would be suitable for use on all ongoing IDA pru,kects w,hen it became fully
operational. 5/
1/   The various financial provisions are set forthl in Section 2.04 of the
Draft Project Agreement.
2/   See Schedules 1 through 3 of thie draft Project Agreement.
3/   See Sections 4.01 and 6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement.
4/   See Section 4.01(J) of the draft Development Credit Agreement.
5/ See Section 2.10 of thie draft Project Agreement.



- 15 -
52.       Training would be directed by ARC according to a program agreed
with IDA.   It would be a condition of effectiveness that ARC had furnished
to IDA a satisfactory program for training of senior and middle level LDB
staff. 1/ About 800 such staff would be sent to the College of Agricultural
Banking (CAB) or other suitable institutions for intensive training. A study
of training requirements for junior-level staff of LDB was agreed to be
completed by October 31, 1975. The study would be conducted mainly by the
state LDB under ARC's direction. After the study, the resulting programs
would be approved by the agencies concerned, including IDA, and implemented
under ARC's direction. 2/
53.       The feasibility study of merging the short and long term cooperative
credit systems would be carried out under the direction of GOI or RBI ac-
cording to terms of reference acceptable to ID)A. The study would be expected
to be completed by July 31, 1976. 3/
54.       In view of the expected increase in ARC's lending program over
the next several years its authorized and paid up capital will have to be
increased. ARC's authorized capital is presently Rs. 250 million of which
Rs. 150 was paid in as of June 30, 1974. It was agreed that no disbursements
would be made in respect of ARC refinancing after July 31, 1976 unless ARC's
authorized capital were increased to not less than Rs. 500 million, and that
such equity had been paid in amounts sufficient to ensure that at all times
ARC's debt/equity ratio does not exceed 20:1, its statutory limit. 4/ This
limit of ARC's ratio of total liabilities to equity is in line with that of
similar institutions financed by the Bank Group in other countries, and is
appropriate considering that ARC is a closely supervised subsidiary of RBI
and that the ARC Act stipulates RBI must hold at least 50% of ARC's shares.
Based upon ARC's projected operations and increases in paid-up capital,
ARC's ratio of total liabilities to equity would fluctuate between 17:1
and 15:1 during the period 1973/74 through 1977/78.
Project Cost and Financing
55.       The credit would support ARC's refinancing program over a two
year period costing a total of about US$169 million equivalent (including
duties and taxes) of which the foreign exchange component is about US$7.5
million or 4.5%. Included in this cost are about US$154 million for minor
irrigation and US$13 million for diversified lending. The project also
includes a total of US$2 million for LDB training and the cooperative
credit study.
1/   See Section 6.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement.
2/   See Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement.
3/   See Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement.
4/   See paragraph 3, Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement.



- 16 -
56.       The proposed IDA credit of US$75 million would cover 44% of the
total cost. The remaining 56% would be financed by farmers (10%), banks
(9,%), ARC (36%), and GOI (1%).
57.       IDA funds for lending to farmers would be clhannelled by GOI to
ARC for onlending to participating banks whicih would, in turn, relend the
proceeds to individual or groups of farmers. Relending arrangements are
specified in Annex III.   The terms for small farmers would include less
rigid downpayment criteria (5% rathier tilan 10% or 15%) and repayment over
a longer period (up to 15 ratnier than 9 years). Project lending rates
would be in line with the prevailing rate structure in India and the spreads
proposed are reasonable in relation to the risk element involved and the
cost of appraisal and supervision of individual loans.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Procurement would involve small investment items (mainly tubewells
and pumpsets) on individual, widely scattered farms with purchases spread
over two years. Capital equipment orders would be difficult and costly
to group for centralized procurement to attract international competitive
bidding. There is an adequate choice locally from suppliers of imported
and locally manufactured equipment, and prices are competitive, so that
farmers have a fair choice at reasonable cost through normal commercial
channels. Dugwells would be dug by the farmers themselves and tubewells
would be contracted directly by the farmer with a local well driller.
Competitive bidding would not be practical.
59.       The credit is expected to be disbursed over two years.    IDA
would disburse against 55% of ARC's refinance for minor irrigation and
diversified lending; and against 50% of the cost of training and training
studies.
Economic Benefits
60.       The project would provide a number of economic and social benefits.
hlie investments in minor irrigation are expected to lead to annual incremental
production valued at about JUS$6O million of which foodgrains would account
for about 7J%. This wculd contribute to vitally needed food supplies and
sizeable savings of foreign exchange for food imports. Over 100,000 farmers
and their families are expected to benefit from the project through increased
production of food and family income. About 400,000 to 600,000 persons
in all would be affected. In terms of institutional development, the project
would further our relationship with and strengthen ARC, an institution which
is becoming more and more important in tne context of rural development in
lndia. Stronger and more effective institutions for providing agricultural
credit are a fundamental prerequisite to achievement of meaningful gains in
this sector. Of special importance, tile LDB training programr to be under-
taken t'Lroiignout India would assist LDB in thieir programs to become more



- 17 -
efficient, expand agricultural development lending and intensify overdues
recovery efforts. The economic rate of return would range from 26% to 49%
for the minor irrigation component, would be 14% for mixed orchards and
25% for sericulture farms.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the Agri-
cultural Refinance Corporation, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d), of the Articles of Agreement and the text
of a draft Resolution approving the proposed Development Credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
62.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are
described in paragraphs 49 through 54 of this report.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOIMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. lIcNamara
President
Attachments
April 3, 1975






ANN EX I
Page 1
CODWTR! DATA - _181D1
7,290.23 he~~~~~~~~                 577.0  aillion ~~~~~~~(.id-1973)              350     P., katof ...ble land
SOCIAL DiDICATORiS
Refereno    Ooutr tea
GNP PhR CAPITA U8$ (ATLAS OASIS) /I                             -911 9                                     220        2,600 
R!CrRude Nrhrt(prtcond30I                                                     38              be 01LIo     1          13.9 
Crade death rt   (Per thouend)3                                              16  .,4         19 I.,A      12 L....   170 LI
Infst -ataity r.t. (par thmoanod lies bi,th.)                !39       120-110                            80         17 2L
Li fe a. actacy' et birth (year.)                             ;.1            50              1             8'
Or-   r~octo ra          22. 7/hb.t                                         2.9             3.2          3 3          1.3
2.3            ~      2.             .
Age strutur    (percent)
8-lb'                                                       111               r1             LI        1           23.7 L
15-61~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 56                    7               '3          51          62.7 /
6'5 od or3                                                                  3f/c                          3/        136/
Age dep-od-oy ratio A                                         1'.P           .      0.        9           0.9          c 0 6 L
Froocd,pe.deoy ratio Zj                                  1.0           0. 7~ j          15            .5          0.8
Ur'ban poplati-o aa percent of total                          18             20 /..          18 /I        32 /.        78 /n.n
F-il  pl lg.N. of -coptora o-elttee (thoc...            I0                              7
Feceoly lOnOing,No. of -oare (1 of carried ,en)         ,17                                           09
Total lbor fo-c (thoosada)                               189,0(w/      ?21,000/.         h0,100/      13,2(00/     25, 70c, I.
Per-at ago esPloynd io Agrionltura                          73             71 LI           62/          56 /8         3
Peroe-tage coWsl.y.d                                        ..2                                          7    ~     3.6
IINONIt DISTRIBUOI?tI
P.rco-t of 3'a tio .. ocose. raceiced by htgbust 5%           25 I8         25 /rg          .             25 /.        15 /r.t
Percent of saticoal iccoo  eoiead by hlgh..t 20%              12 /r          53 /r.         .             51  hl8      369 
P.rcont of a tooi-  Iooa In ecatoeird by 1enet 20%             L W~..1                                           ~      6/,
P. cet of cton.. Inca      receo-d by lcoest 40%              IL            13                            12 /         19 /L.
MSD  IUIDcNPONf OF LAND OMIEISHiIP
S1 0esd byto   0oPenr...
%.osnd by esallest 10% of oeors .
FMALTH AND NUTRITION
PsPelation peWrepiacian                                    5,C00         L:1000          27,650        9,100/8        82
P.pelattne per noralg pleron                               5.1.10 /      5,110            9,012        5,390/         30/
Popolatto  Per hoapital bad                                2,6(0 /       1,620 L.8y       1,720          850 La       110 /
Per capita- caoie eupply ae % of raquirmeets                  95            89               93           85          175
Per capita protein spply, total (grame per da~L6 /             5            13               53           15           90
Ofebch  ...a and ro1l                                  19/O           16 /Lb          IL/ Ld       2             57
AdJoated /8 pri.ory -choo norojeet ratio .7                                     F            721         112 ~~.      I110
Adjuetod J   -secodor  cobool enroUment ratio                 10             28              12           15   t        . 2
Tear of co1olig peo,'td;df,feet and escood le...              12            12               17           10           13
Vocotional ecoletAe5osc. echool enrollaent                    I,                 -           27           10 ~.~d       5
Adut literacy rate %                                                        31  r  I         5 c  G       72 /8  i      977/
A7,esreg. No. of person, per roo   (urban)                    2.6 1,        2.8 Ic.tLL,oc    ...                       10/1
Percent of occpied unite althtioc piped wetar-                              ..                            66   a.-
A.-,.e to electricity (.o % sf total PolnI.atioo).                          ..                            23 /da
Percet of focal popolatto     oooootmd t. .latirioty         ...                            .6nu
CONSUMPTION
*~~~T~ioioer  per lION) poPlat Ion                           5            23             I , li.       16 /8        1'2 
Pa .n0ecre  e P.,0)1 population                         o1.6            a                2 /0           Ia        31 L
Electric pete  oco-cptin (bkb p.c.)'                           .6          108,o             23 7W       255         L , 725 
M. eprlo  _coupti.c p.c. kg Per.   0c                        0.?           0.21 /8          1.77         1.1  cc     715/
Noten: Figure   refer rIter, to tbe l.t.et periods or to           accout of .-i-ce,n-tal. temperture, boY nelghtead
the latent y-asr   L. tatnt periode refer ic principle t.          dietribatton bY'9 agesd -a- of national PoPu1atioc..
the yearn 1956-60 or 1966-70; tbn latent Yn---  In Pri..       L6 Protein tetndarda (requlrea  t.e) fcr all c ...trise a- natab-
ciple to 0 960 and 1970.                                           Iihed by USDA E ....nlc R..aacb Serebge pro-ide for a ainisu
/7  The F.r Cepilo GNIP eatioen  ie I.t scakt prioro for           ailcanc   of 60 grun  of total protein per day, and 20 gran  of
You, Oth-terhb    1960,. caloultad by tbe c-n  _ooeni_ na an              ptlee .Prot ic, of abiob 10 gr-n  h-old b. ant,na
techulque an tbo 1972 World Blank Atlan.                       protein.  Thn"e atandd.rd  are eo-ebt lo-e thac   those of 75
12 Arerge comber of daughtere per nosa    of repr-ductI-e          gra   of total proein sod 23 gro-   of animal Protaic  a an
age.                                                           searg. for the norld, propo...d by FAO In thca Third World Food
'a  Pepclutton groh rates are for the decode.enoding In            Sua."
1960 nod 1970.                                             /7 Som   etuiee ha-   euggeetd that cr.da death ratee of chitldran
/L  Reilo of popoltin uoder 15 and 65 and oar to pope.-            ages I th-gb I nay he .aad Ar a firat approoIstion inla     of
(too of ages 15-61 for age dependenY rtio and to labor         nal-trition.
force of 0g- 15-.61 for --conb   dependency rtio.          /8  Percetage ecrolld of norrep.rdig pop.latlco of echool age
,a  PA0 referenc  standards represet phy.iological --               ae defined for e..h -outfl'.
qairautni for.. .oIa -ctlioty and health, taking
/   9-7;   /b  LEtinte aooual average for 1963-61 based cc reo-Ite of the Iatioca1 -orle -u-vy:       /c   1971;   /d tEtloate;
L~1965-70;    If  1973;   /g  Eattoated annul acerega for 1951-61 b.and .. ucelysio of d-cecolal -eneue;      /h  1951-60;
R.tSLein eetitoate tsnd 0n birtha ;,obtained by  pp,li..tioo of rerecor-i-al       netbod to -oaIe. of 1951 and 1961
ceonoone;  /7  960-72;  /8  Fo  the dftoltion of urbanar      ..l5r5ic.erob            7  P. 151;    /8    uotcopalltie-,
reec a itasad otterplace  aith urban cheraoteri.tlc-, occudng      est Irtan       Po   the definition of urban
one Ii D   graphc lorok1973. P.17            /    ra   l   ifled ae .,abno for local g9-ece-t purpos.es, ta.. couty
borougha  oocia     bcgaad orba. districts;          L.  1961;   L8  1-codee all indirldoae     h.a participate In any
type of ...conlc ac IvIty;   /8AID eatinate of labor fo-c     to -nAge grcup 15-59. IO   report gi_ee a figre of 100.
millioc baaed an the 1971 populatIon c-sn.     The differece   ia due in changee In the drfloition of a norker.   lo the
17    -.anc, perasarem  - olse..flMd anly on the heels of their nsoet   lo.  in   This led to the ez-l-ion of several
-neoia  ahauh.....oloea;    /8    ouoehlde;    L. 1967-68;    /t  1968;   /v  1962;    I. Prreonoe   in g-cecoett
Iertce   only;  /81957;    /8  I969     a    I-cluding ruro  hoeplt.l.;  /.  G-e-net hospital eetablishoents only;
~196-62;      /gb1969-70;       ~Estlaete    hc-b io-ldee   -vragr etudants;    /ad  1967;   /ac  Nct i.ccluding --ntiano1
OIo,-t.tere roreee;    71196;  /%j  961;. LL      ftXpulti- cf 10 yror- end -cr b.oed o- one porcent n..plo dnto
of 197;     Ij15 year    ad ove r;         De lat refer to bounebo.lds;  .2L  Dt.l toned on n-ple tabulation of -eoso
rnaro   lInia   refe  t hoosoho1de in oa__,tioc_1 denliige;       /_   Ispurte only.
S ie cod pop,1otlo- mako Iodanesie e rle-ent -ooaonoutry, although IIis io,i          ta  per capita incose gr...p te0ou
lhu Io  otted  lIogd-oo   b -nla   erle-tad h-e..og   of the inporiat rlol of public ec-Lor coepie  ad tie highly
d-oelopod sycirn of~. noa celfare.
86, Karl 12, 1975



ANNE I
Page 2
ECONOMIC DEVEMOPMNT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1972r/i u5 $ 110
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972/73                                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (S. constant prices)
us   Bin.       L                        196L62-196566    /{      6    0-1967 0  1970/71-1972/73
GNP at Market Prices                     57.7        100.0                            3.1               h.3                1.0
Groas Domestic Investmnt                  9.7         16.8
Grosae National Sawing                    9.2         15.9
Current Account Balance                  -0.5         -0.9
Resource Gap                             -0.2         -0.3
OUTPUT. IABOR FORCE AND P2000CTIVTT IN 1971
Vilue Added (at factor ocat)                lAbor Force          V.A. Par Worker
us $ BLn.  A          N'..    =            05     tof NAtonal Averase
Agriculture                          23.1               bL.8                   130.0   72.0           178          62
Industry                             15.6                30.2                   2b.6  13.7            634         222
Services                             12.8                25.0                   25.8  iI              b56         174
Total/average                        51.5               100.0                  180a4 100.0            285          100
General Government 5/                                         Central Governnt
Un. billion        __         of GDP                      as. billin                 % of GP
1975/74       197374       19T1/72- 1973/74              1973/74         19'3/74      197172- 1973/74
GOVEiRN7T FIRANhE
Current Receipts                         88.11          15.2            15.8                       50.59           8.7              9.2
Current Expenditures                     88.89          15.3            16.0                       49.11           8.4              9.1
Current Surplus/Dericit                 - 0.78         - 0.1           - 0.2                        1.48           0.3              0.1
Capltol Expenditures d/                  27.70           4.8             5.2                       20.99           3.6               3.9
External Assistance (net)                  3.93          0.7             0.8                        3.93           0.7               0.8
MONEr. CREDIT AND PRICES                    1965/66       1969/70    1970/71     1971/72    1972/75     1972174      September.1975    September. 1974
Billion  Rs  outotanding  at  end  of  period
Money and Quaei-Money                     61.4           93.3       105.7      122.4       142.4      188.8          155.1            177.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector              40.8           52.4       56.9        69.0       82.5        93.5           91.2            102.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector             28.1           48.3       56.7        64.4       76.o        85.6           79.5             90.5
(Percentage of Index Numbers)                              Januwan. 1974     Januy   1975
Money and Quasi-Money as % of CIP          24.0          23.6        24.3      . 26.3       27.9       26.8
Wholenale Price Index (1961/62 = 100)     131.6         171.6       181.1      188.4       207.1      254.0           271.2           315.5
Annual Percentage Change in.
Wholesale Price Index                       7.7           3.8         5.5        4.0         9.9       22.7                            16.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector              12.9            1.5        8.6        21.5        19.6       13.3                            10.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector             12.8           15.1       17.4        13.6        18.0       12.6                            15.1
!!/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1972 market prices, calculated by the sate conversion technique as the 1972 World Atlae.
All other conversions to dollara in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
E/ stimates.
S/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
d,/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
e/ Credit to Gcrernment.
f/ Credit to Goercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page 3
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                            /12IZ7   1972/73   1973/74           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1 971 '1
(OMillion US                                                      us   G2-1 9
Exports of Goods                              2,160     2,545     3,105            Jute Manufacturers           324          12
Imports of Goods                              2,572     2,664     3,665            Tea                           195          7
Trade Balance                                 - 412     - 119     - 560            Cotton Textiles               241          9
NFS (net)                                     - 48      - 146      n.a.            Iron Ore                      151          6
Resource Gap                                  - 460     - 265      n.a.            Engineering Goods             193          7
Interest Payments (net)                       - 230     - 237      n.a.            Others                      1.521         SB
Other Factor Payments (net)                   -   7     -   8      n.a.            Total                       2,625        100
Net Transfers                                   358     -  50      n.a.
Balance on Current Account                    - 339     - 560      n.a.            EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1974
Official Aid                                                                                                                US Ml.
Disbursements                             1,089       896     1,175            Repayable in foreign currency              9,905
Amortization                              - 385     - 408      n.a.            Repayable through export of goods            468
Transactions with IMF                           -         -          75            Total Outstanding and Disbursed           10,373
All Other Items                               - 14,0      106      n.a.                                                                  B
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1973/74            23.2 percenta
Increase in Reserves (-)                      -225      - 34      - 106
Gross Reserves (end year)                     1,'77     1,311      1,417           IBRD/IDA LENDING. JANUARY 31, 1975       (US$ Mln.)
Net Reserves (end year)                       1,277     1,311     1,417                                                   IBRD      IDA
Fuel and Related Materials                                                         Outstanding and Disbursed               451     2,2h1
Imports                                         262       265       715            Undisbursed                             223      1,050
of which: P'etrolaum                          261       265       715            Outstanding ircl. Undisbursed           674      3,299
Exporta                                          11        41        20
of which: Petroleum                             9        37        16
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to mid-December 1971: US $ 1.00 - Rs.    7.5                    After end June 1972          t Floating Rate
Rn. 1.00 - US $ 0.133333
Spot Rate (Feb. 28, 1975)    : approx. US$ 1.00 - Rs. 7.81
Mid-December 1971 to       t US $ 1.00 - Rs.   7.27927                                                approx. Rs. 1.00 - US$ 0.128
end June 1972              Rs. 1.00 - US $   0.137376
a/ Amortization and interest payments (US$720 million) as a percentage of merchandiae exports. Breakdown of amortization and interest not available.
March 12, 1975






ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS Oi BAN4K GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATFLENT O BANK LOANS AND IDA CRUEDITS
(As of February 28, 1975)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                             (Net of Cancellation)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower        Purpose                      Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                     1,032.5  1,648.9
30 Credits fully disbursed
614-IN       1969   India    Tarai Seeds                         13.0       -        7-4
176-iN       1970   India    Kadana Irrigation                     -      35.0       5.3
191-IN       1970   India    Gujarat Agricultural Credit           -      35.0       0.4
203-IN       1970   India    Punjab Agricultural Credit            -      27.5      25.5
226vIN       1971   India    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit    -      24.4       5.8
241-IN       1971   India    Telecommunications IV                 -      78.0      10.1
242-IN       1971   India    Power Transrnission II                -      75.0      62.3
249-IN       1971   India    Haryana Agricultural Credit           -      25.0      14.4
250-IN       1971   India    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit        -      35.0      10.0
264wIN       1971   India    Cochin II Fertilizer                  -      20.0       7.0
267-IN       1971   India    Wheat Storage                         -       5.0       4.1
268-IN       1971   India    Pochampad Irrigation                  -      39.0       7.5
789-IN       1971   ICICI    Industry DFC IX                     60.0       -        8.4
278-IN       1972   India    Mysore Agricultural Credit            -      40.0      25.5
279-IN       1972   India    Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion        -      10.0       2.0
293-IN       1972   India    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit       -      30.0       9.6
294-IN       1972   India    Bihar Agricultural Markets            -      14.0      14.0
312-IN       1972   India    Population                            -      21.2      18.4
342-IN       1972   India    Education Project                     -      12.0      12.0
356-IN       1972   India    IDBI                                  -      25.0      24.5
357-IN       1973   India    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion           -      58.0      42.2
377-IN       1973   India    Power Transmission III                -      85.0      85.o
378-IN       1973   India    Mysore Agricultural Markets           -       8.0       8.0
902-IN       1973   ICICI    Industry DFC X                      70.0       -       45.8
390-IN       1973   India    Bombay Water Supply                   -      55.0      53.9
391-IN       1973   India    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit    -      33.0      26.1
392-IN       1 973  India    UP Agricultural Credit                -      38.0      31.3
403-IN       1973   India    Telecommunications V                  -      80.0      80.0
427-L4       1973   India    Calcutta Urban Development            -      35.0      32.3
440-IN       1973   India    Bihar Agricultural Credit             -      32.0      28.7
448-IN       1973   India    Railways XII                          -      80.0      22.7
456-IN       1974   India    HP Apple Processing & Marketing       -      13.0      13.0
481-IN       1 974  India    Trcambay IV                            -     50.0      48.6
1011-IN       1974   India    Chambal (R)                         52.0       _       49.0
482-IN       1974   India    Karnataka Dairy                       -      30.0      30.0
502-IN       1974   India    Rajasthan Canal (CAD)                 -      83.0      68.7
520-IN       1 974   idia    Sindri Fertilizer                     -      91.0*     91 .0
521 -IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy                       -      27.7*     27.7
522-IN       1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy                  -      16.4*     16.4
526-iN       1975   India    Drought Prone Area                     -     35.0*     35.0
1079-IN       1975   India    IPFCO Fertilizer                   109.0*     -       109.0
528-IN       1975   India    Industrial Imports x                  -     100.0*    100.0
Total                                                         1,336.5  3,150.1
of which has been repaid                                   6B        100.
Total naw outstanding                                           668.   3,140.1
Amount sold                            111.5
of which has been repaid          111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                -6W-.    3,140.1
Total undisbursed (including*)-/                                 219.6 1,099.0   1,318.6
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
P.S. EXcluding 230-IN which was cancelled.



ANNEX II
Page   2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of February 28, 1975)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                 Company                       Loan       Equity      Total
1959           Republic Forge Company Ltd.          1.5         -          1.5
1959           Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.          0.9          -          0.9
1960           Assam Sillimanite Ltd                1.4         -          1.4
1961           K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                   0.2          -          0.2
1963-66        Precision Bearings India Ltd.       0.7         0.3         1.0
1964           Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.        0.8         0.4         1.2
1964-75      *Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8        1.0         12.8
1964           Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.           1.0        0.3         1.3
1967           Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.              1.0        0.1         1.1
1967           Indian Explosives Ltd.               8.6        2.9        11.5
1969-70        Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.           15.1        3.8        18.9
TOTAL                         43.0        8.8         51.8
Less:     Sold                      6.0         1.6         7.6
Repaid                    8.0         -           8.0
Cancelled                 6.2        0.1          6.3
Now held                 22.8        7.1         29.9
Undisbursed                -         0.6          0.6
* 1975 commitment of $9.5 million has been approved by the Board but is
not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page   3
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was $368 million in FY74 or 83% of
Bank Group commitments in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of $1,319
million as of February 28, 1975, corresponds roughly to commitments over
the preceding 24-month period and reflects the lead time which would be
expected given the mix of fast and slow disbursing projects in the India
program.
Ln. No. 789    Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan789-IN is fully committed;
and disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1974
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. The Corporation is
working efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed
quality. Seed production is meeting targets. Implementation problems
over processing plant construction and land-leveling have been resolved
although, as a result of these delays, an extension of the closing date
by two years has been necessary. Expansion of an existing processing plant
has been completed and expansion of another existing plant is in progress.
Orders are about to be placed for construction and equipment of a new plant
and for a controlled-environment store.
Cr. No. 176    Kadana Irrigation; US$35.0 million credit of February 9, 1970;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam.
The project also includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drain-
age works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. The
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays
in dam construction. The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule. Some of the delays in implementation have occurred at the
start of the project before major investments have been made. These will
not affect the economic justification of the project. Further delays have
occurred as a result of building materials shortages. The Government has
recently intervened and made adequate quantities of building materials
available. Progress is now satisfactory.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation; US$39.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the comprehensive agricultural development
on the right bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to
some 100,000 ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-
lined main canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads.
Until mid-1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with
construction and credit disbursements progressing ahead of schedule. Acute
shortages of construction materials, especially explosives for the canal
excavation, have hampered progress. As a result, construction of the main
canals was now falling about one year behind schedule. This is likely to
delay the introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area. Land
development is presently haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water
availability in the project.  Government is aware of the inadequacy of the
credit operation for land development and has requested IDA financing for
a Comnmand Area Development Project, to be implemented by a Central Authority
for all farmers in need of land development. Construction of the dam, which
was also affected by temporary shortages of building materials, is now pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit has been signed on March 7, 1975, and conditions of
effectiveness will have to be fulfilled by July 7, 1975.
Cr. No. 191    Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million credit of
June 3, 1970; _Closng Date: March 31_,1975
Cr. No. 203    Punjab_ gricultural Credit Project; ISS_27.5 million credit of
June 24, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
Credit of January 8, 1971; Closing Date; June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    1-arYana Agricultural Credit Proiect; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Closing Date: October 31, 1975
Cr. No. 293    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million
credit of March 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The above agricultural credit projects total US$319.9 million.
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization equipment
only, all are similar in structure, being designed to provide long- and
medium-term credit to farmers through credit institutions for such on-farm
investments as imported tractors, minor irrigation and land-leveling. Dis-
bursement of these credits started slowly. So far as the minor irrigation
components were concerned, the main difficulties stemmed from the institu-
tional requirements, in particular the introduction of changes in lending
criteria and lending terms and the strengthening of institutions responsible
for assessing groundwater availability. These constraints have been over-
come and disbursements are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed
following changes in both the supply and demand situations after the proj-
ects were originally appraised which prompted GOI to request that indigenous,
as well as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these
credits. The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and
those credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly.
Tractor procurement is now in progress. Some funds earmarked for land level-
ling and tractors have been reallocated to minor irrigation components.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
This credit, which provides storage facilities in India's wheat
belt, comprises construction of 10 warehouses (100,000 tons capacity) and
10 silos (200,000 tons capacity) and an all-India grain storage study.
Warehouse construction is about 75% complete. The Government Food Ministry
has selected a local research institute to conduct the study. Administra-
tive problems, substantial cost increases, and technical difficulties in
the selection of silo sites have hampered the execution of the silo com-
ponent. A supervision mission has recently assessed the situation and has
recommended a restructuring of the silo component to enable it to be com-
pleted within the financing plan. Tendering for silo foundations has been
initiated.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing; US$13 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple proc-
essing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh and comprises roads, cold storage,
juice processing, and marketing facilities. The project entity, the H.P.
Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC) has been
established and key senior staff recruited, including the Managing Director.
Feasibility studies have begun for cold storage and the juice concentrate
plant. Project training is expected to begin soon.
Cr. No. 241    Telecommunications IV; US$78.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V; US$80.0 million credit of June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Disbursements have been delayed mainly because of delays in
material supply from both local and external sources. Delays in local
supply were due to labor problems affecting one of the principal suppliers
and imports were delayed due to longer than anticipated lead time required.
The closing date of Telecommunications IV was therefore postponed by six
months to June 30, 1975. Revised disbursement schedules for these two
credits are now expected to be met.
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II; US$75.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of
May 9, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission program
in nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred
because of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for
international bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids
involved, but all contract awards have now been made. For Power Trans-
mission III, specification and tendering procedures are progressing.
Tenders received so far indicate substantial cost overruns.
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer; US$20.0 million credit of July 30, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 279    Gorakhpur Fertilizer; US$10.0 million credit of January 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; USS58.0 million credit of
February 9, 1973; Closing Date:   March 31, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion; US$50.0 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the ex-
pansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project is now
proceeding about 24 months behind schedule mainly because of procurement de-
lays, slow progress on civil works, and shortages of steel and cement. Pro-
curement problems have been largely overcome, and most of the equipment
is either at the site or at the Cochin port. Another factor which has
contributed to the delay has been technical problems in the commissioning
of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate amount of man-
agement attention. Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant Operations
Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these problems;
the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis and
procurement has been initiated. The engineering design for the Gorakhpur
project is well advanced and virtually all the equipment has been ordered.
Although delivery of some equipment is taking longer than forecast during
appraisal, the project is progressing without serious difficulties. Engi-
neering work, procurement and site construction for the Nangal Fertilizer
Project are proceeding satisfactorily. Progress on the Trombay IV project
has been good although project completion may be delayed by about four
months because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment.  The Sindri Credit became effective on February 27, 1975.    Engineer-
ing design and procurement preparations are proceeding on schedule. The
IFFCO loan was signed on January 24, 1975. Conditions of effectiveness
have to be met by March 31, 1975.
Cr. No. 448    Railway XII; US$80 million credit of December 21, 1974;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
This project consists of new and ongoing works in the Indian
Railways investment program. Disbursements are on schedule.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets; US$14.0 million credit of March 29,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0
million credit of May 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
projects has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in Bihar was
delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acquisition of
land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satisfactorily
resolved. Market construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 312    Population; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
This credit will help finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Project
implementation is gaining momentum; the construction program is well
under way, and all key project staff have been appointed.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Progress of implementation has improved with the selection of
campus planners/executive architects, project architects and specialist
advisers. Contract negotiations for these personnel are presently in
progress and appointments are expected to be made shortly. University
development plans and fellowship programs have been submitted to the
Association and are under review. Equipment lists are still being
prepared.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India; US$25.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due
to institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
The last review mission reported in May 1974 that satisfactory progress
could be expected soon. As of February 28, 1975, commitments for sub-
projects reached $4.7 million and disbursements have begun.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Project implementation is about 24 months behind schedule because
of delays in appointing consultants and the redesign of major contracts by
a year. Disbursements have been delayed for the same reason, but several
large contracts are now being let, and the disbursement rate should then
improve.
Cr. No. 474    Ninth Industrial Imports Project; US$150.0 million credit of
May 29, 1974;  Closing Date:   November 30, 1975
Cr. No. 528    Tenth Industrial Imports Program; US$200.0 million credit of
February 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The ninth credit was declared effective on June 24, 1974. It is
now fully disbursed. The tenth credit was signed on February 14, 1975 for
the initial tranche of US$100 million and amended to US$200 million on
March 7, 1975. Conditions of effectiveness have to be fulfilled by March 31,
1975.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; IJS$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This credit became effective on January 10, 1974, except for a
US$2.6 million portion allocated to a slum redevelopment proposal and a site
and services scheme. This portion became effective on July 15, 1974. As of
January 31, 1975, US$1.9 million had been disbursed under the credit, mainly
for civil works.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development; US$30 million credit of June 19,
1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development project; USS27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project:    US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Credit became effective
on December 23, 1974. The Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC)
has been established, and senior management staff appointed. Some progress
has been made in planning and training of specialized teams and in preparing
a banking plan, but the project is about 4 months behind schedule at this
early stage largely due to insufficient staffing of the KDDC, which is
responsible for project implementation. Conditions of effectiveness for
the Rajasthan Credit have to be fulfilled by May 15, 1975 and for the Madhya
Pradesh Credit by April 15, 1975.
Ln. No. 1011    Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project:
US$52 million loan of June 19,. 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502     Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 million
credit of July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This loan and this credit became effective on December 12, 1974.
By February 28, 1975, disbursements - mainly for fertilizer - reached $3.0
million for the Chambal and $14.3 million for the Rajasthan Canal project.






ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:            Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) and banks
for on-lending to farmers for on-farm investments.
Amount:                   US$75.0 million.
Terms:                    Standard.
Relending Terms:          GOI to ARC:
(a) For ARC refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 6.75% minimum,
less 0.25% for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years;
(b) For ARC refinancing for more than 9 and up to
15 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 7.25% minimum,
less 0.25% for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years;
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.
ARC to Lending Banks:
(a) Annual interest rate of 7.5% minimum;
(b) Installment repayments to coincide approximately
with collections from ultimate borrowers, and
(c) Refinancing by purchase of debentures or by
loans up to 90% of individual loans.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Lending Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) Minor irrigation:
(i) annual interest rate of 10.5% minimum;
(ii)  optional initial evaluation fee may be
charged in the amount of 0.5% of the cost
of the project investment;
(iii)  downpaymnent required would be at least
10%; for small farmers the downpayment
required would be 5% 1/;
(iv)  repayment period for pumpsets to be a
maximum of 7 years;
(v) repayment period for tubewells to be a
maximum of 9 years except for small farmers
who could be given up to 15 years to repay
minor irrigation loans other than for
pumpsets;
(vi)  technical standards, in particular well
spacing criteria, as laid down by ARC to
be observed.
(b) Diversified lending:
(i) annual interest rate of 11% minimum;
(ii)  optional initial evaluation fee may be
charged in the amount of 0.5% of the cost
of the project investment;
(iii) downpayment to be at least 10% except
for small farmers who would need at
least 5% down 1/;
(iv)  repayment period up to 15 years including
grace period;
Farmers having an annual income of Rs. 3,500 or more would be required
to pay 15% down; small farmers would be defined as those naving an
annual income not exceeding Rs. 2,000.



ANNEX III
Page 3
(v)  no loans to be given for markets invest-
ments without prior IDA approval;
(vi)  refinance of lending scnemes other than
minor irrigation lhaving tot4l investment
costs of US$0.5 million to be approved
by IDA.
(c) General:
(i)  ARC would specify security arrangements to
apply to lending to farmers;
(ii) ARC to refinance only sound subprojects
wqhich are financially viable (15X finan-
cial rate of return, minimum), and are
backed with satisfactory technical and
administrative management.
Project Description:      The purpose of the project is to support a two-
year ARC program of lending to farmers and an
intensive training effort primarily for the staff
of land development banks (LDB). Lending under the
project would be mainly for minor irrigation, but
credit for development of certain other on-farm
activities such as dairying, poultry raising, and
sericulture would be provided.
Estimated Cost:                                               (US$ Million)
Local Foreign Total
Minor Irrigation               146.5      7.5    154.0
Diversified Lending             12.5     -        12.5
LDB Training and Studies         2.0     -         2.0
Total Project Costs            161.0      7.5    168.5
Financing Plan                                                (US$ Million)
Local  Foreign   Total
IDA Credit                      67.5     7.5      75.0
Local Financing:
GOI                         1.0     -         1.0
ARC                        60.0     -        60.0
Banks                      16.0     -        16.0
Farmers                    16.5     -        16.5
Total                     161.0     7.5     168.5



ANNEX III
Page 4
Estimated Disbursements        FY76      FY77      FY78
Amount     Amount     Amount
Annual:        15.0       37.5      22.5
Cumulative:    15.0       52.5      75.0
Procurement
Arrangements:           The procurement of investments (mainly tubewells
and pumpsets) would be through normal local com-
mercial channels by individual farmers according
to their choice. Capital equipment orders would
be difficult and costly to group for centralized
procurement to attract international competitive
bidding. Dugwells would be made by the farmers
themselves and tubewells would be contracted
directly by the farmer with a local well driller.
Competitive bidding would not be practical.
Rate of Return:           The economic rate of return would range from 26%
to 49% for minor irrigation; for mixed orchards
it would be an estimated 14%; and for sericulture
farmers, 25%.
Appraisal Report:         No. 562a-IN dated March 1 i 1975.



IBRD 11048
70                                t80.                               INDIA                      JUNE 1974
Agricultural Refinance Corporation Credit Project
AFGHANISTAN      S.. <' "o   bse        rREGIONAL OFFICES, PROJECTS' AREAS AND GROUNDWATER UTILIZATION
i  ~~~~~~~  > -''\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~A.R.C regional off ices:
,=                       / C^a=|e ce  X   >       *  Existing
JAMMU -d KASHMIR                           * Proposed
,  ^)   g   /   k   C                      \    Is totes with on-going IDA Agricultural Credit Projects
Groundwater utilization:
>   )  w y-MJommu  \v=, <, j                 Irntensi-nly developed ond/or potential problem areas
H/MACHAL  9
-P-/  '  <  ffi< (,>x RRADESH/        -   --Stte end Union Territory boundories
-AKI,STA10<-h                Se I; ' 5                       -.-. Intennational bo.ndaries
-30'                                                           C     H     I    N      A                       30-
BomboY.]b~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~'' MSW.R -j                                          \,AOS     T 
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( i b.                     e t)
J~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                         \$     NE bP/Aa n   g  r            \ _             >-)    ;r
GOA ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    ~    ~   ~   ~   IA         BANRLADESHAD< H 
Ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
HESH                                  To
t ~ ~~~                        ~   ~ ,                        20 0  30o  o
Ga  KARNAJA1?~~~~~~~<(IHAANDLDES
/MYsREJ ea-dn  P rraV sy                                                   B
_  LNADUr.hrr4,,,  eo ._ --               90\
Trinandrum        SRI LANK~~RIA          Iwa
A r o b /'a       0 n,ra                    1                               ILMEnR
70        ca.e,wuiG KRaNAXiO              -                              0



