Report No. 562a-IN                                                                        FIL   E
Appraisal -of Agricultural Refinance 'Opy
Corporation Credit Project
India
March 15, 1975
Agricultural Credit and Development Finance Companies Division
South Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared tor official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not arcept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00              2   Rs 8.0 1/
Rs 1                 =   US$0.125
Rs 1,000             =   US$125.00
Rs 1,000,000         =   US$125,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ACD       -    Agricultural Credit Department (RBI)
ADB       -    Agricultural Development Branches
ARC       -    Agricultural Refinance Corporation
BTC       -    Bankers Training College
CAB       -    College of Agricultural Banking
CB        -    Commercial Banks
CCWB      -    Central Groundwater Board
DCCB      -    District Central Cooperative Banks
FSS       -    Farmerst Service Societies
GOI       -    Government of India
LDB       -    Land Development Banks (Generic term for all SLDB
and PLDB whether operating on a federated or
unaitary sys tem)
MFDA      -    Marginal Farmers Development Authority
NIBM      -    National Institute of Bank Management
PCs       -    Primary Cooperative Societies
PLDB      -    Primary Land Development Banks
RBI       -    Reserve Bank of India
SCB       -    State Cooperative Banks
SFDA      -    Small Farmers Development Authority
SLDB      -    State Land Development Banks
VMI       -    Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Cooperative
Management
1/   The actual rate fluctuates, as the rupee is pegged to the pound
sterling, which has been floating vis-a-vis the US dollar since
June 23, 1972. Conversions in this report are at US$1 = Rs 8.0
which was the rate prevailing at appraisal.



- 2 -
CROPPING SEASONS
Khariff   -  June to September
Rabi      -  October to February
Summer    -  March to May
FISCAL YEAR
ARC       _  July 1 to June 30
GOI       -  April 1 to March 31






INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........ .  ....................... ...... . i-iii
Is   INTRODUCTION ... *.....   .............                     1
II*  BACKGROUND ... *.......          ............................... 
A.   Agriculture .............                         1
B.   Groundwater and Minor Irrigation
Development ....2.........     .......   ..     2
C.   Diversified Lending         ........................  4
D.   Agricultural Credit ........................      4
E.   Fourth and Fifth Five-Year Plans ...........      6
III.   ON-GOING IDA PROJECTS THROUGH ARC ....................      7
A.   Review of On-going Projects ................ .    7
B.   Land Development and Commercial Banks ......    9
C.   Agricultural Refinance Corporation    .........   10
IV.   THE PROJECT .... ...**                ...                  15
A.   Definition ......... *.**....... ***......*...   15
B.   Detailed Features ........... *......0.........  16
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing    ...............  19
D.   Procurement and Disbursement ...............     20
V.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..................   21
A.   Introduction ..............                      21
B.   Agricultural Refinance Corporation ..........    21
C.   Land Development Banks and Commercial Banks.    24
D.   Central and State Governments ..............     26
E.   Lending Terms and Conditions ................    26
F.   Land Development Banks-Staff Training
Programs and Study . ........... . .. ....... .    29
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS ..   30
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................   31
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............   33



- 2 -
Schedule A  -  Groundwater Utilization -
Districts Containing Intensively
Developed and/or Potential
Problem Areas
Schedule B  -  Spacing and Density of Wells
Schedule C  -  Project Lending Terms and Conditions
Schedule D  -  Small Farmer Definition
ANNEXES
1.   IDA Projects Financed through Agricultural Refinance
Corporation
2.   Groundwater and Minor Irrigation
Table 1 - Rainfall Distribution by Seasons and Regions
Table 2 - Surface Water Resources - Estimated Runoff
Table 3 -  Estimated Groundwater Availability and Utilization
Table 4 - Net Area Irrigated by Sources (1969/70)
Table 5 - State Groundwater Organization Staffing
3.   Cooperative Banks, Cooperative Land Development Banks and
Commercial Banks
Table 1 - State Cooperative Banks - Summary of Overdues
1969/70 and 1970/71
Table 2 - State Land Development Banks and Primary Societies -
Summary of Overdues 1969/70 to 1972/73
4.   Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Table 1 - Average Borrowing and Lending Rates of ARC from
1963-64 to 1972-73
Table 2 - Analysis of ARC Interest Rate Structure
Table 3 - Board of Directors
Table 4 - (a) Organigram as at March 1973
(b) Projected Staff Estimates 1974-78
Table 5 - Schemes Under Consideration as at January 31, 1974
Table 6 - Statement of Net Income
Table 7 - Condensed Balance Sheets
Table 8 - Growth Since Inception
5.   Agriculture and Diversification
Table 1 - Consumption/Production and Import of Fertilizer
In India
Table 2 - Irrigation Wells - Anticipated Achievement as
at June 30, 1974
Table 3 - Villages Electrified as on September 30, 1973
Table 4 -  Coffee Production in India
Table 5 - Typical Costs of Cultivation of One iHa.



- 3-
6.   Training Program and Study
Appendix 1 - Program for Training Senior and Middle-Level
Staff
Appendix 2 - A Study of Training Requirements for LDB
Junior-Level Staff
Appendix 3 - Study of Training Requirements for LDB
Junior-Level Staff - Outline Terms of Reference
7.   Proposal Outlining Objectives, Nature and Scope of Project
Evaluation System
8.   Guidelines for Quarterly and Annual Progress Reports
9.   Guidelines for the LDB Debenture Study and Outline Terms of
Reference for the Joint Committee
10.   Financial Analysis of Sub-Project Models
11.   Benefits and Economic Rates of Return
12.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of the IDA Credit
13.  M1inor Irrigation
Table 1 - Calculation of Project Lending Program
Table 2 - Indicative Program of Project Lending by States,
ARC Loans and Debentures to CB and LDB
MAPS
11047     -    Generalized Occurrence of Groundwater, Rainfall and
Evaporation
11048     -    ARC Regional Offices, Projects' Areas and Groundwater
Utilization






INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Sunmary and Conclusions
i.        This report appraises an agricultural credit project in India
costing US$168.5 million. It proposes an IDA Credit of US$75 million to
support a two-year lending program to farmers, mainly for minor irrigation
(about nine-tenths) and for diversified lending. It would include an in-
tensified training program for the staff of the land development banks (LDB),
the major institutions making the loans.
ii.       IDA is financing ten agricultural credit projects in India, each
within individual states. Of their total IDA Credits of US$320 million,
over one-third has been disbursed. The Government of India (GOI) passes
the Credits on to the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC), which on-
lends to LDB and participating commercial banks (CB). These in turn make
loans to individual and groups of farmers for investments, mainly in minor
irrigation.
iii.      The project recognizes ARC's growing competence as an agricultural
development institution. Its major objective is for ARC to take over the
appraisal function formerly done by IDA and to commit specific amounts for
individual schemes within an IDA-approved overall lending program. It would
enable ARC to include worthwhile schemes that are too small for IDA to ap-
praise individually.
iv.       A minimum of US$37 million of the IDA Credit would be set aside
for lending to small farmers. In the current ten projects the definition
of a small farmer is unsatisfactory, being based on his post-development
income, thereby excluding many small farmers. A new definition, based on
pre-development income, was agreed at negotiations.
v.        The droughts and floods of recent years have underlined the neces-
sity of continuing irrigation development. Coupling this with improved tech-
nology offers the best chance of maximizing production. This project aims
at assisting this continuing development by providing further funds for minor
irrigation. Safeguards would be introduced to prevent overdevelopment and to
avoid mutual interference between individual water users. The current ten
projects have assisted in the improvement and training of the staff of the
state groundwater organizations and extension services, and this work would
continue under this project.
vi.       The diversification component takes into account possible develop-
ment in support of such crops as coffee (with emphasis on smallholdings),
coconut, mango, and citrus fruits. Other suitable sectors include dairy,
poultry, sericulture, and storage. About 7% of project funds would go to
diversification.



vii.      The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and ARC have been ;active in assis-
ting LDB to become more development-oriented, particularly rationalization
of lending policies, better management of resources and improved staffing,
including technical competence. The most immediate problem is a reduction
of the high overdues, but this depends to a large extent on improving staff
training. Consequently the project includes an intensive and immediate train-
ing program for LDB senior and middle-level staff, and a later program for
junior-level staff following a study to ascertain their training requirements.
The criteria governing LDB overdues in states with on-going projects (under
which those with higher levels are excluded from participation) would ensure
no slippage in performance, and a modified interim formula would be intro-
duced to cover collection performance in new states entering this project.
viii.     Commercial banks would participate in the project on the same terms
as LDB, and would compete with them. While their share of loans is not ex-
pected to be more than about 15,' it has not been limited to any specific
amount, and there would be competition among all participating banks. State
Cooperative Banks (normally supplying short- and medium-term credit) are likely
to supply some longer term credit in the lesser developed eastern states,
and up to US$0.5 million of the IDA Credit would be available to them.
ix.       Farmers obtain long-term loans from LDB, and seasonal and shorter-
term loans from other state cooperatives. Ideally they should obtain all
their credit from one source, but this would require a merger of the two
systems. This project includes a study of the problems and possibilities
of such a merger.
x.        ARC helped to prepare and now administers the ten on-going agricul-
tural credit projects, and its own administration continues to improve. It
is competently managed and its finances are satisfactory.
xi.       LDB obtain the bulk of their funds from ordinary debentures (con-
trolled by RBI) and special debentures (controlled by ARC). This sharing
of responsibility has been an obstacle to improvement of LDB performance.
An existing joint RBI-ARC committee would be made official to continue to
formulate common requirements for the issuance of all LDB debentures. At
the same time, GOI would form a study group to examine the existing system
for authorizing debenture issues and to make recommendations on the best
method of controlling future issues.
xii.      Of the estimated total project cost of US$168.5 million, US$154.0
million would be for minor irrigation, US$12.5 million for diversified lend-
ing, and US$2.0 million for the training programs and studies. The proposed
IDA Credit of US$75 million would represent the foreign exchange component,
US$7.5 million (5%), plus about a half of local currency cost; overall about
44% of project cost. GOI would bear the exchange risk and would on-lend to
ARC which would repay part of it at an annual interest rate of 6.5% after
9 years, and the balance at 7% after 15 years. Loans to borrowers would be
at a minimum rate of 10.5% for minor irrigation and 11% for diversified lend-
ing, repayable between 7 and 15 years.



- iii -
xiii.     Over 100,000 farmers would make small widely scattered investments
over 2 years, thus centralized bulk buying would be inappropriate. Farmers
would buy pumpsets and other equipment in local markets, which are competitive,
and would provide their own labor. Local contractors to sink the tubewells
are available in all areas. International competitive bidding would not be
practical.
xiv.      Minor irrigation development would help to:  (a) produce more
reliable and higher yields, particularly foodgrains from areas of sparse
and uncertain rainfall, and (b) increase cropping intensity, from an
average of 103% to 166%, through more cultivation during the rabi season.
Farmers' net income would be from two to seven times higher than at pres-
ent, and financial rates of return would be between 18% and 43%. Diversi-
fied lending would lead to production of a variety of products for which
there are good domestic and world market prospects. Financial rates of
return would be between 15% and 33%.
xv.       The main economic benefits would be:  (a) increased grain pro-
duction, representing foreign exchange savings for food imports, (b) sub-
stantial income increases for over 100,000 farmers of which at least one-
half would be small farmers, and (c) LDB throughout India would be strength-
ened by intensified staff training at all levels. Estimated rates of return
to the economy would be from 26% to 49% for minor irrigation and 14% to 25%
for diversified lending.
xvi.      The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$75 million on
standard terms.






INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Currently IDA has ten agricultural credit projects in India,
each within individual states. The IDA Credits total US$320 million, of
which US$143 million had been disbursed up to February 28, 1975 (Annex 1).
Government of India (GOI) passes these Credits on to the Agricultural
Refinance Corporation (ARC), which on-lends to land development banks
(LDB) in each state and to participating commercial banks (CB). These in
turn make long-term loans to individual and groups of farmers for invest-
ments, mainly in minor irrigation. ARC has also participated in six other
IDA-financed projects (two in markets development, three in dairy develop-
ment and one in apple processing and marketing). Based on IDA's experience
with ARC through these Credits, and on ARC's growing competence as an agri-
cultural development institution, under this project ARC would take over
the appraisal function formerly performed by IDA, and would commit specific
amounts for individual schemes within an IDA-approved overall lending pro-
gram. In addition to providing finance for repeater projects in states with
on-going projects and for eligible schemes in additional states, it would
enable ARC to include some worthwhile but much smaller schemes that in the
past have been too small for IDA to appraise individually.
1.02      This report is based on a project preparation report submitted
by ARC in November, 1973, and on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited India in February/March, 1974, and consisted of Messrs. A. Stoneham,
S. Khoo, R. Headworth, C. Downing, R. Van Wagenen and L. Forget (IDA),
and K. Anderson (Consultant). Mr. R. Golkowsky (IDA) also contributed to
this report. The data on ARC has been updated to June 30, 1974.
TI. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture
2.01      Since 1965, India lhas shifted its development empihasis from in-
dustry to agriculture, 1/ giving priority to accelerating the spread of
modern agricultural technology through increasing the availability of
improved inputs, such as high yielding seed varieties, fertilizer and
irrigation, and through developing modern credit institutions. Despite
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects for agri-
culture in India is given in Economic Situation and Prospects of India:
Report No. 402-IN, dated May 7, 1974.



-2-
the impressive results of the green revolution in some areas since 1967,
the annual overall growth rate in agricultural output in the ten years
ending in 1973 was about 3%. This was slightly lower than the growth
rate in the previous decade and very little more than the population
growth. However, these figures conceal an important structural change:
the largest portion of the growth in production now comes from increases
in yield and multiple cropping (facilitated by irrigation) rather than
from increases in cultivated area.
2.02      Although 70% of India's labor force is engaged in agriculture
(providing 45% of its GNP), many farmers who could take advantage of the
new techniques if agricultural inputs were made available to them Aave
scarcely been affected by the recent advances. Moreover, recent droughts
and floods have stressed once again that Indian agriculture remains heavily
dependent on the vagaries of the weather. In the long term its effects
can be minimized by continuing irrigation development, coupled with improved
technology. The on-going IDA irrigation and agricultural credit projects
have assisted irrigation development, and a project to develop drought prone
areas has recently been approved.
B. Groundwater and Minor Irrigation Development
2.03      Because of the limited scope for bringing additional land under
cultivation, the essential increase in food production must continue to come
largely from multiple cropping and an increased level of productivity. Great
advances have taken place in agricultural technology in recent years, es-
pecially in high yielding seed varieties and fertilizer use. However, to
derive the optimum benefits from these advances, the availability of an
assured water supply is one of the most essential prerequisites. Rainfall
in the country is mostly confinecd to a few months in the year and thiere
are great variations in its incidlence from year to year, so that there is
a continuing need to provide assured water supplies through surface irriga-
tion, drainage and groundwater development.
2.04      On the eve of the Fifth Plan (1974-79), the total cropped area
benefitting from minor irrigation was around 20 million ha. In the Fifth
Plan an increase of 5 million ha is envisaged compared with about 4 million
ha in the Fourth Plan.
2.05      In recent years the scale of groundwater development has outpaced
the techinical, administrative and legislative arrangements necessary to
assure its healthy growth. Since 1966-67 there has been a program to build
up state groundwater organizations. Early progress was slow, but the pace
is accelerating. In those states with on-going projects the results gen-
erally have been adequate, mainly because of IDA insistence on building up
such organizations to cope with the technological problems confronting them.
The Central Groundwater Board (CCWB) has given considerable assistance to
state organisations in improving their technical capabilities, including



-3-
the secondment of key staff. CGWB gives courses in groundwater and well
techniques to senior-level professionals from state organizations and from
its own staff.
2.06      There is general agreement in India that overpumping and related
problems (principally concerning water quality) exist, or will soon exist,
in certain areas. In Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu the
development of groundwater may be reaching its limit during the Fifth Plan.
At appraisal a list of "districts containing intensively developed and/or
potential problem areas" was drawn up (Schedule A and Map 11048). In these
areas future development will be restricted (para 4.03). Through its Credit
projects IDA has been pressing for suitable groundwater legislation which
is necessary to ensure orderly development (Annex 2). States have been slow
in accepting the need-for such legislation, but draft legislation is now
under consideration in a number of them, and with continuing pressure from
CGWB and ARC, legislation is expected to be enacted over the next few years
in many states to improve groundwater control and development.
2.07      Proper spacing between wells is important to avoid interference
between individual water users. Determination of minimum allowable spacing
depends upon a number of factors. Principal considerations include: (a)
physical properties of the water-bearing materials and overlying deposits
(permeability and specific yield); (b) rate of pumping, which is influenced
by design of the well, aquifer properties, size of farmer's holding, cropping
pattern, crop intensity, pump design and climate; (c) duration of pumping
(daily and seasonally), which is influenced by the same factors as is the
rate of pumping; and (d) available recharge in the vicinity of wells, that
is influenced by the mode of occurrence of groundwater aquifer properties
(water table or artesian conditions), climatic conditions (particularly
rainfall amount and intensity), character of surface soils and topography,
and the presence of additional recharge opportunity from canals or areas
irrigated with surface water. These factors are seldom consistent over
even small areas, so that many separate analyses have to be made to account
for individual circumstances. In addition to determining permissible mini-
mum spacing between wells to avoid mutual interference, it is equally impor-
tant to determine maximum permissible density of wells in a given area, to
prevent overdevelopment or "mining" of groundwater. Recommended minimum
well spacing and maximum well density for dug wells and shallow tubewells
in on-going IDA credit projects have been determined by empirical formulae
derived originally for use in hard rock areas. Although these formulae
have proved satisfactory in practice, simplified formulae, based on the
experience gained over the past five years, are proposed for this project
(Schedule B).



-4-
C. Diversified Lending
2.08      The Fifth Plan emphasizes the need for agricultural diversifica-
tion to make full use of the varying regional potential. Several areas for
possible diversified lending have been identified by ARC, and are discussed
briefly in the following paragraphs.
2.09      Tree Crops.  The national program for tree crops is based largely
on rejuvenation of existing plantations and orchards (coconut, coffee, mango,
citrus). The present area planted to coconut is about 1.1 million ha and its
rehabilitation is of prime importance to overcome the large and expanding gap
between internal demand and production. India produces over 90,000 tons of
coffee annually of which about 60% is exported. There is a national effort
to upgrade existing plantations, with emphasis on small growers (less than
4 ha). Mangoes are often grown as a secondary cash crop; demand is high and
extension of the area cultivated to exceed demand is very unlikely. Although
there is no organized marketing system, farmers have no difficulty in selling
their crops and prices have been steadily rising. The citrus industry has
been declining but disease resistant varieties are now available that make
citrus production much more attractive. Marketing is better organized and
packing houses and processing plants are being established. Demand for
refinance for development of other tree crops such as cacao, rubber, tea,
and oil palm has been very limited, but may improve in the near future.
2.10      Dairy and Poultry.  There is limited scope for small (backyard
type) dairy and poultry, except as part of organized schemes where management
and supervision are available. Commercial banks experience so far has
not been good; thus farmers and bankers approach any such schemes with
extreme caution.   However, there are good prospects of viable development
in small scale dairy and poultry operations in areas where management skills
necessary to maintain healthy high production dairy cows and poultry are
available.
2.11      Sericulture and Fisheries.  Internal and export prices and demand
for silk are strong and should continue. Fisheries development schemes are
normally integrated and involve both inland and offshore operations, catch-
ing or producing fish coupled with processing and marketing.
2.12      Storage.  There is an increasing demand for credit to expand stor-
age facilities, particularly at collection centers.
D. Agricultural Credit
2.13      Private moneylenders aid cooperative credit societies are the
principal sources of agricultural credit in rural areas. In recent years



-5
there has been a significant increase in institutional credit and the rela-
tive importance of private moneylenders has somewhat declined, although they
are still the largest source. At present, about 30% of farmers' borrowings
are from institutions.
Cooperative Societies
2.14      The cooperative credit structure is the major source of short- and
medium-term institutional credit (Annex 3). Cooperatives are constituted
under state law, and within each state there is a three-tiered structure:
(a) primary societies at the local level, usually on a village by village
basis; (b) district central banks to coordinate all cooperative credit
activity within the district; and (c) an apex bank at the state level,
responsible for all short- and medium-term credit throughout the state
structure.
Land Development Banks
2.15      Long-term credit, as well as some medium-term credit, is provided
by land development banks (LDB) (Annex 3). They are structured as coopera-
tives but are entirely separate entities from the cooperative short- and
medium-term credit structure. State LDB (SLDB) and Primary LDB (PLDB) make
up the two tiers of this structure although in four states (Bihar, Gujarat,
Maharashtra, and Uttar Pradesh) the SLDB is unitary in character, with its
own branches throughout the state. Unfortunately, current statistics on
classification of loans according to size of land ownership are incomplete. 1/
However, from the information available for ten states (that may not be rep-
resentative of all-India), 35% of all loans issued by LDB during 1972/73
were to borrowers with holdings up to 2 ha, 34% between 2 and 4 ha, and 31%
over 4 ha. One of the main problems of LDB is their high volume of overdues
(para 3.09). Their main source of funds is ordinary debentures on the local
money market, controlled by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), and special de-
bentures controlled by ARC (para 3.08).
Commercial Banks
2.16      A significant development in recent years has been the entry of
commercial banks (CB) into the credit field (Annex 3). Their performance
to date has been modest, and they have tended to concentrate on medium-
term loans to large farmers against security of fixed assets and chattels.
llowever, they should play a greater role in the future as they expand their
branch networks and accumulate the necessary expertise, particularly for
lending to small farmers. Since nationalization, CB have been encouraged
to increase their volume of agricultural lending. Three developments have
been significant: (a) the introduction of the lead bank system (para 3.10);
(b) the takeover in a few states by CB of the financing of some primary
societies which have been unable to meet their members' credit needs owing
to weak central cooperative banks; and (c) the adoption by the State Bank
1/   Collection of these statistics is improving and they should be avail-
able on an all-India basis by the end of 1975.



- 6 -
of India Group of over 2,500 villages for intensive financing of agricul-
ture under village adoption schemes, including the setting up of special
Agricultural Development Branches at various centers. Despite these, how-
ever, CB currently provide only about 10% of estimated institutional agri-
cultural credit.
Farmers' Service Societies
2.17      The National Commission on Agriculture, in its report of December,
1971, recognized that both cooperatives and CB failed to meet the credit
needs of small farmers, and advocated the establishment of multi-purpose
Farmers' Service Societies (FSS) to integrate both seasonal and longer term
credit with the provision of input and marketing services. To commence FSS
operations, the initial capital contribution would come from the financing
bank, which would be the central/state cooperative bank, or the "lead" CB
which had assumed responsibility for promoting, guiding and financing the
FSS. It should not be less than Rs 100,000 for a larger FSS covering a
development block, and Rs 40,000 for a smaller FSS. In addition the financ-
ing bank is expected to provide the necessary working capital to enable the
FSS to operate. In view of the considerable responsibilities devolving on
financing banks (they are also expected to appoint adequate, competent and
trained staff to FSS) and because of the difficulties of finding suitable
experienced management, progress in opening FSS has been slow. GOI envi-
sages the establishment of about 50 FSS during 1974/75, and though several
have recently been formed, it is too early to assess their progress.
E. Fourth and Fifth Five Year Plans -
2.18      One of the main agricultural objectives of the Fourth Plan (1968/
69-1973/74) was to create conditions necessary for a sustained production
increase of about 5% per annum over the next decade. To achieve this, major
reliance was placed on the high-yielding seed varieties program supported
by assured water supplies through irrigation. The achieved growth rate of
wheat was strikingly higher than the target but that for rice and maize
was much below Plan expectations. The main bottleneck was inadequate water
control, mainly in major and medium irrigation projects. A large program of
integrated command area development in 50 major irrigation projects covering
14 million ha is included in the Fifth Plan (1974-79), and it could constitute
one of the major thrusts in Bank Group lending in support of agricultural
development in India in the years ahead.
2.19      In the Fourth Plan, main reliance for agricultural credit was
placed on the cooperative system, with assistance from CB. There is likely
to be a shortfall in the achievement of cooperative long-term credit of the
Fourth Plan target, one of the main factors being the high level of overdues.
1/   The Fifth Five-Year Plan is under revision, but GOI intends to continue
the agricultural programs and targets to the extent practicable.



-7-
In the Fifth Plan cooperative development will have four specific objectives:
(a) to strengthen the network (credit, supply, marketing and processing); (b)
to build up a viable consumer movement to enable it to function as an import-
ant element in a consumer oriented distribution system; (c) to try and correct
regional imbalances, particularly in credit; and (d) to make special efforts
towards restructuring and reorienting, so as to shift the focus of their
activities increasingly in favor of small farmers. During 1969 (the first
year of nationalization of the major CB) there was a sharp increase in CB
direct advances to agriculture. Subsequently, however, the rate of increase
slowed down due partly to improved lending criteria and better supervision.
CB are also changing their methods of operation, moving away from thinly
dispersing their efforts over wide areas to evolving concentrated area
schemes, village adoption and group lending programs. During the Fifth
Plan, CB will open more rural branches in states where their investment was
low during the Fourth Plan. In 1971, the Talwar Committee 1/ recommended
changes in administrative and legislative measures to improve the partici-
pation of CB in agricultural credit, since in making loans they were at a
disadvantage compared to LDB over: (a) security registration; (b) priority
of charges; and (c) stamp duty. Some states have already enacted legisla-
tion to give CB equal rights with LDB, and others are expected to follow.
2.20      ARC made significant progress during the Fourth Plan.  Its total
disbursements during the Plan were originally expected to be of the order
of Rs 2 billion; a target that was subsequently stepped up to Rs 3 billion.
The amount actually disbursed was Rs 2.5 billion. During the Fifth Plan,
ARC is expected to provide refinance facilities exceeding Rs 6 billion. To
reduce the existing wide regional imbalances, deliberate efforts are to be
made to accelerate the rate of investment in the weaker and poorer states
of the eastern region.
III. ON-GOING IDA PROJECTS THROUGH ARC
A. Review of On-Going Projects
3.01      Since 1969, ARC has been involved in IDA finance of ten agricul-
tural credit projects, two market development projects, an apple processing
project and three dairy development projects. Total cost of these is
US$770.0 million, of which IDA is contributing US$429.0 million (55.7%)
through ARC, of which to February 28, 1975, IDA had disbursed US$142.8
million (Annex 1).
1/   In September 1969, the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India appointed
an Expert Group to review legislation impinging upon commercial bank
lending for agricultural purposes. The final report of the Group was
issued in 1971 and is commonly known as the Talwar Report.



-8-
3.02      A typical credit project finances a three to four year lending
program to farmers within a particular state for investments in minor irriga-
tion (mainly tubewells and pumpsets), farm mechanization (mainly tractors)
and on-farm land development. In some cases equipment and services required
for project implementation such as well drilling rigs, land levelling equip-
ment and consultants are included. One of the main objectives of each proj-
ect is to strengthen all the institutions involved in its implementation.
Each project requires the respective state government either to establish
a Groundwater Directorate or strengthen the existing one to ensure proper
controlled use of groundwater. Each project also contains specific measures
for improving the performance of the LDB involved.
3.03      The two market development projects (Bihar and Karnataka) provide
improved market facilities, including land and access roads, in various towns.
State Marketing Boards have been created to supervise the markets and their
development. The main objective of the apple processing and marketing project
is the introduction of advanced facilities and technologies to help alleviate
the transport, storage, processing and marketing problems facing the apple
industry in Himachal Pradesh.  The three dairy development projects are to
develop integrated programs for increasing milk production in rural areas by
providing milk collection, processing and marketing facilities and technical
services for artificial insemination and animal health. A Drought Prone Areas
Project covering selected districts in Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra
and Karnataka has been approved. ARC would refinance LDB and CB for loans to
farmers participating in the minor irrigation and diversified lending schemes
to be developed in the project areas.
3.04      General preconditions fo:r each credit project include:  (a) a
viable LDB with acceptable levels cf staff and financial operations; (b)
lending policies and procedures based not only on borrowers' legal title
to their land but also on incremental returns resulting from each investment
and on borrowers' repayment capacity; and (c) adequate supporting services
and institutions, particularly groundwater, extension, input procurement
and distribution, marketing, short--term financing and civil works contractors.
3.05      The most successful component to date has been minor irrigation
which accounts for about four-fifths of loans refinanced by ARC.  Lending
for on-farm land development has been slow because of uncertainty over land
ceiling legislation, weak technical services, inadequate civil works con-
tracting procedures and a poorly developed private contracting industry.
Lending for tractors and other internationally procured machinery was for
several years frustrated by delays in issuing tenders and cumbersome tender-
ing procedures, but GOI and IDA worked out revised procedures about a year
ago, and these are now operating satisfactorily. Disbursements to date
under these projects are in Annex 1.
3.06      Although overall disbursements on these projects have lagged behind
appraisal estimates, those for minor irrigation have generally been up to
or ahead of schedule. In some states disbursement has been held up by high
level of LBB overdues, accorunted fcr partly by thKe w.!garles of the weather,
p!,bor ,aal-fagemert£5nd ia'lk ois follo.èing up Jefiulters.  This is



-9-
gradually being rectified through ARC's institution-building efforts. All
in all the projects have had a beneficial effect on participating LDB
operations (para 3.09). Of the US$286 million remaining undisbursed under
these projects, about US$80 million is for tractors and should be fully
disbursed within two years. The balance, about US$206 million, is scheduled
for disbursement over the next four years.
B.   Land Development and Commercial Banks (Annex 3)
Land Development Banks
3.07      SLDB provide long-term agricultural credit to cooperative members;
in some states they operate through branches, but in others, they provide
credit to PLDB. Regular membership of PLDB as at June 30, 1974, was about
2.5 million farmers, compared with about 1.5 million in 1968. In view of
the rapid growth over the past five years of LDB, RBI, with assistance from
ARC, has been trying with some success to make them more development-oriented
by issuing detailed guidelines aimed at rationalization of lending policies,
better management of resources and improved staffing, including technical
competence. On-going IDA projects have all focussed on the problems of
improved operational efficiency, and have included revised procedures, train-
ing programs, and other measures within SLDB to accomplish this objective.
Much more remains to be done before the situation can be regarded as satis-
factory. The most urgent need is for intensive staff training at all levels,
and a suitable program is included in this project (para 4.12).
3.08      SLDB main sources of funds are ordinary debenture issues (sanc-
tioned by RBI) purchased by other LDB, state governments, CB and other fi-
nancial institutions, such as the Life Insurance Corporation, together with
special debenture issues purchased by ARC. Over the last five years, ARC
has supported, through its special debenture program, an increasing amount
(50% in FY72/73) of LDB lending. Although RBI and ARC have not always
applied the same criteria for debenture issues in the past, an informal
committee of the two institutions now meets regularly to bring more uni-
formity to such issues. For this project a formal RBI/ARC liaison com-
mittee will be set up, and a study will be made to evolve a long-term
solution (para 5.10).
3.09      The main problem of cooperatives, including SLDB and PLDB, has
been their relatively high level of overduesl/, although these vary consider-
ably from state to state (Annex 3, Table 2). Provisional overdue figures
for June 30, 1974, show an improvement overall compared with the previous
year and markedly better results in five states. All IDA-financed agricul-
tural credit projects have emphasized the importance of reducing overdues.
1/   In India, overdues at the end of any financial year are expressed as
a percentage of "demand" (principal and interest falling due during
the year plus overdues from previous years).



- 10 -
To encourage suitable action, more recent IDA credit documents contain cov-
enants with state governments under which they undertake, as a condition of
effectiveness, to ensure that overdues of participating SLDB and PLDB are
reduced to below 25% of demand. If not, each state government takes over
a sufficient amount of hard-core overdues to reduce the remaining overdues
to below 25% and provides the LDB with an equivalent amount of redeemable
equity capital. The SLDB/PLDB retains responsibility for collection of
the overdues taken over, and as they are collected the equity is redeemed.
While this method does nothing to reduce overdues immediately, it does
directly involve state governments in underwriting overdues. As a result,
many states have applied pressure to LDB to improve collections, with bene-
ficial results. A modified formula is included in this project, to enable
the states with weaker LDB to participate under close supervision (para
5.11).
Commercial Banks
3.10      CB entered the field of agricultural credit in 1968. Although
they are involved in some IDA agricultural credit projects, where they compete
with SLDB and PLDB for available business, their share of total ARC refinan-
cing has remained at about 10% over the last 4 years, although it is expected
to increase to around 17% by 1978.
C. Agricultural Refinance Corporation (Annex 4)
Background
3.11      ARC, a subsidiary of RBI, 1/ was established on July 1, 1963
through the ARC Act (1963). Its objectives are to provide medium- and
long-term finance to agricultural credit institutions and, at the same
time, to direct and guide them toward a development-oriented approach in
their operations. It refinances SLDB, SCB and CB for funds advanced by
them for approved agricultural schemes that are technically feasible,
financially justified, and within a reasonably compact area. Its role is
important, not only as a source and channel for development funds, but also
for its beneficial influence on lending policies and procedures of the agen-
cies it assists, and on the supporting services of state governments.
The Board of ARC
3.12      ARC's Board has nine members:  the Chairman, who is a Deputy
Governor of RBI and nominated by it; one other nominated by RBI; three
1/   Under the Act, RBI's minimum shareholding must be 50%.



- 11 -
nominated by GOI; one elected by SLDB shareholders; one by State Coop-
erative Banks (SCB) shareholders; one by the remaining shareholders,
including Life Insurance Corporation and scheduled banks; and a man-
aging director appointed by RBI after consultation with the Board.
Shareholders
3.13      ARC's shareholders include RBI, SLDB, SCB and other institutions
(Life Insurance Corporation of India, scheduled banks, insurance and invest-
ment companies, and others). Shareholders must receive the prior approval
of GOI. Annual dividends are guaranteed by GOI. 1/
Management and Staff
3.14      The managing director is the chief executive, and is assisted
by a professional staff of about 250 (as of June, 1974) of whom almost two-
thirds are based at ARC's head office in Bombay, and the rest at the 15
regional offices (Map 11048). The present managing director, appointed about
two years ago, is a highly experienced member of RBI staff.  He has reor-
ganized ARC (Annex 4, Table 4) with beneficial effects on its operational
efficiency. Except for a few technical experts, all staff are seconded from
RBI. All have received prior training in agricultural credit work before
being transferred, and continue to participate in regular staff training
programs.
Source of Funds
3.15 (a) share capital and reserves: As on June 30, 1974, the issued
and paid up capital was Rs 150 million. Reserves were
Rs 15 million;
(b) borrowings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI:
The borrowing power of ARC is restricted to 20 times the
paid up capital plus the reserve fund. As on June 30,
1974, borrowings from GOI stood at Rs 1.6 billion. The
availability of funds from GOI during the year 1973/74 was
limited mainly to reimbursement of the equivalent of IDA
Credits drawn;
(c) issue and sale of debentures and bonds guaranteed by GOI:
ARC is endeavouring to raise larger resources on the
local market. During 1973/74 it successfully floated its
fifth and sixth bond series amounting to Rs 275 million,
thus bringing the aggregrate so far raised in the market
to Rs 662 million;
1/   Currently 4.25% on the initial issue of Rs 50 million and 4.5% on the
subsequent issues.



- 12 -
(d) borrowings from RBI for periods not exceeding 18 months:
The ARC Act was amended in August, 1971, to enable it to
borrow from the National Agricultural Credit Fund of RBI.
The balance outstanding as on June 30, 1974, stood at
Rs 540 million. These borrowings are repayable in ten
equal annual instalments. ARC also has arrangements with
RBI to borrow money for short periods not exceeding 18
months to meet temporary needs. A limit of Rs 150 mil-
lion was granted for this purpose and the amount outstand-
ing as on June 30, 1974, was Rs 116 million;
(e) deposits from GOI, state governments, and local authorities
for periods not less than 12 months: The amount outstanding
under this head as on June 30, 1974, was Rs 14.1 million and
represented dividends payable on ARC's shares held by RBI
placed on special deposit with ARC. No interest is payable
on this special deposit.
Use of Funds
3.16      The bulk of ARC's refinance has been for minor irrigation and land
development, accounting for 80% and 9% respectively of the total at the end
of June, 1974. During the last eleven years, ARC has made a valuable con-
tribution to India's food production drive by financing about 90,000 tube-
wells, over 0.1 million dug wells and 0.2 million pumpsets (electric and
diesel). This has converted about 0.7 million ha into multiple cropped
irrigated farms involving about 1.7 million people (350,000 farm families
cultivating 2 ha on average. The estimated total area under minor irrigation
increased by about 4 million ha (from 16 to 20 million ha) from 1968/69 to
1973/74. Thus ARC has helped finance conversion of around 16% of the total.
Since during that period institutional credit was only responsible for about
one-third of all agricultural investment financing, ARC was involved in
about a half of the institutional financing for minor irrigation. In the
last two years (1972/73 and 1973/74) ARC's investment in minor irrigation
was stepped up and accounts for about two-thirds of its total in that
category since its inception; it is thus currently involved in the bulk of
institutional investment in minor irrigation. Other activities refinanced
by ARC include mechanized fishing boats, tractors, storage, livestock and
poultry.
3.17      Of the aggregate disbursement of Rs 3.2 billion as on June 30,
1974, about 33% had been in the southern, 24% in the western and 23% in
the northern region. Of the balance, 17% flowed to the central, 3% to
the eastern and 0.4% to the north eastern region. In earlier years, ARC
schemes were inevitably concentrated in areas served by relatively strong
institutions. These were mainly in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu in the
south, Maharashtra and Gujarat in the west and Punjab and Haryana in the



- 13 -
north. in the central, eastern and north eastern regions generally there
are severe deficiencies in the infrastructure; the cooperative credit organi-
zation is weak and the recent spread of commercial banking is thin. How-
ever, sustained efforts to strengthen the institutions in these regions are
now beginning to produce results and they should receive a much higher pro-
portion of refinance from ARC during the Fifth Plan.
3.18      About 87% of ARC's refinance assistance has been disbursed through
LDB, 4% through SCB and 9% through CB. The share of LDB remains substantial
due to the organization and expertise developed by them over the last three
decades for long- and medium-term investment. Since 1970/71 CB are coming
forward on an increasing scale to avail themselves primarily of ARC's tech-
nical, rather than refinance assistance.
Operating Results
3.19      In the first three years of ARC's operations, income was derived
mainly from interest on investments. In 1966/67 ARC began to expand its
refinancing activities, and its major source of income is now interest on
debentures and loans. In 1968/69, profits were sufficient to cover dividend
payments and leave ARC with a small surplus, but this position has signifi-
cantly improved in the subsequent four years, and its annual profits are now
satisfactory. With the increased volume of lending the trend of increasing
net profits should continue. Its net surplus (after paying tax and dividends)
was Rs 5.1 millions in 1973/74, representing over 3% of its total income for
that year. ARC has put more than the statutory requirement (10% of net annual
profits before dividend) to reserves each year. At June 30, 1974, reserves
of Rs 15 million were 10% of current paid-up share capital, and are estimated
to grow to Rs 90 million, or 22% of paid-up capital of Rs 400 million at
June 30, 1978, a satisfactory position.
IDA Share of ARC Refinance
3.20      ARC's growth since inception is shown in Annex 4, Table 8.  Most
of the growth has taken place since 1970, after IDA projects commenced. IDA
disbursement averages just over 50% of ARC's refinancing of on-going projects.
Appraisal of Schemes
3.21      Schemes are mostly area development programs for a particular type
of investment on a large number of farms in a compact area. The average
size of investment in each scheme is about Rs 4.8 million. The appraisal
covers not only technical, economic and financial feasibility but also an
assessment of administrative, organizational and credit aspects. Technical
appraisal is carried out by experts from ARC's Consultants Panel and
increasingly by ARC's own staff, which comprises specialists in groundwater,
soil conservation, horticulture, animal husbandry and fisheries. These ap-
praisals are satisfactory and continue to improve.



- 14 -
Small Farmers Schemes
3.22      ARC pays special attention to schemes designed to benefit small
farmers. During 1973/74 it sanctioned 42 schemes sponsored by the sub-
sidized Small Farmers Development and Agricultural Labourers' agencies
(SFDA), including eleven in the eastern and north eastern regions. 85
schemes, with a commitment of Rs 390 million have been sanctioned through
these agencies. 58 schemes are for minor irrigation, 27 for dairy devel-
opment and the remainder for poultry, sheep breeding, land development,
plantation and horticulture. In 1972/73 and 1973/74, about 5% of ARC's
total refinancing was for these schemes.
Evaluation
3.23      With encouragement and assistance from IDA, ARC has recently set
up an evaluation cell to assess the economic benefits accruing from invest-
ments refinanced, so as to compare the ex-ante expectations with ex-post
achievements, particularly at farm level. This should improve consider-
ably ARC's current monitoring and evaluation activities and bring them up
to the standard required by IDA for monitoring its projects.
Regional Offices
3.24      ARC's network of regional offices cover every major state; in
addition it has technical units in Lucknow and Calcutta, and a Panel of
technical consultants. It is capable of: (i) assisting state governments
and local authorities in the preparation of schemes; (ii) helping to build
up the financing institutions (particularly LDB) to operate successfully
the schemes, by insisting on minimum lending criteria, financial requirements
and training; (iii) in cooperation with state governments, ensuring that
adequate supporting services are available; and (iv) supervising the progress
of schemes. The extent and scope of the regional office network is now
satisfactory to support ARC's regional diversification program, while the
experience and efficiency of the regional staff continues to improve. ARC's
headquarters staff is geared to give assistance and guidance to its regional
offices, based on modern methods of planning, monitoring, evaluation and
training.
Performance
3.25      During the next few years ARC plans to step up the pace of its in-
vestments particularly in minor irrigation, to diversify its lending program,
to achieve a more even spread of investment in different regions (particu-
larly in the lesser developed states in the eastern and north eastern regions
having major untapped groundwater resources), and to improve the quality of
its lending. Special assistance will be given to small plantations and tree
crop farms. For this purpose ARC has set up an Informal Advisory Committee
under the chairmanship of the managing director, with representatives from
the central and state governments, commodity boards, banking institutions
and planters' associations.



- 15 -
3.26      Total schemes sanctioned as at June 30, 1974, was 1,457 with
commitments of Rs 7,040 million, an average of Rs 4.8 million per scheme.
ARC expects to double the amount refinanced over the next five years.
3.27      Agricultural development is the responsibility of each state
government, while regulation of CB and overall financial control of
cooperatives is the responsibility of RBI. Much of ARC's influence over
financial institutions is due to its close working relationship with RBI
which exercises regulatory and other powers over them. The Chairman of
ARC must be a Deputy Governor of RBI. ARC's direct influence over SLDB
is confined to withholding finance by refusing to purchase special deben-
tures. To ensure coordination in its projects, IDA has made separate
agreements with state governments covering SLDB and PLDB obligations and
performance, and technical supporting services. This has enabled it to
exert a positive influence on institution-building within the states,
particularly for LDB, groundwater organizations and extension services.
ARC has been closely associated with IDA's involvement in the states, and
its relationship with them has improved and become much closer and more effec-
tive over the past five years. It also has separate agreements with state
governments covering each of its on-going schemes.
3.28      ARC's competence and performance have improved markedly since 1969,
partly because of IDA's influence through the on-going projects, and partly
due to RBI's continuing liaison and support, particularly through secondment
of experienced staff.  ARC now enjoys the full confidence of most state
governments, and is playing an increasing role in preparing schemes for
refinancing. ARC is competently managed and in a satisfactory financial
condition. It continues to be a suitable vehicle for effective application
of IDA funds to help meet India's heavy and growing need for agricultural
development credit.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
4.01      The project would cost US$168.5 million.  It would cover repeater
schemes in states with on-going IDA projects after the IDA funds for them were
exhausted, and schemes in states not currently involved in such projects,
particularly in the less developed areas of the north and northeast. The
project would also enable IDA to be associated with many schemes too small
for IDA to appraise directly. The main focus would be on a continuation of
minor irrigation development to assist in increasing India's food production,
and on staff training within LDB to enable them to meet more effectively the
growing credit needs of Indian agriculture. Of the IDA Credit of US$75 mil-
lion, to be disbursed over two years, ARC would commit US$74 million for
individual schemes appraised by it; US$69 million (about nine-tenths) for



- 16 -
minor irrigation, and the balance. (US$5 million) for diversified lending.
Of the IDA funds through ARC, a minimum of US$37 million would be for lend-
ing to small farmers on preferential terms (para 4.10). The balance of US$1
million would be for: (a) studies on LDB junior staff training requirements
and on reorganizing India's cooperative banking system and (b) a training
program primarily for senior and middle-level LDB staff. The above estimates
are based on a state by state analysis of the capability of LDB to absorb
further funds over the next two years, in the light of the trend in their
performance and commitments under on-going IDA projects. Other important
constraints include availability of power and fertilizer, GOI and state
government pricing and marketing policies, the rate of inflation, and the
impact of the new definition of small farmers (para 5.19) on the demand for
credit. These factors are difficult to quantify accurately. For this reason
the project has been limited to a two-year segment of ARC's lending program.
Disbursements estimates are in Annex 12.
B. Detailed Features
Minor Irrigation
4.02      The minor irrigation component would include loans to individual
farmers and groups of farmers. Most of the investments would be for wells
and pumpsets. Wells would include open (dug) wells in both alluvium and
hard rock areas, deepening of dug wells or borings (dug-cum-bore wells),
bore wells in hard rock, shallow tubewells (both conventional and bamboo
type) and deep tubewells in alluvium or consolidated sediments. Pumpsets
would be both electric and diesel powered; typically 3 to 5 hp for dug
wells and shallow tubewells, and turbine pumps (conventional or submersi-
ble) for deep well installations. Other indigenous pumping units, such as
Persian wheels, would also be eligible for refinance. The actual number of
each type of investment cannot be estimated accurately since it would depend
upon individual farmers' preferenzes and the groundwater environment, but
it would involve an estimated 100,000 individual loans to farmers and would
provide primary or supplemental irrigation water supply to a total area of
about 180,000 ha. In addition to drilling capability within various state
organizations there are many private contractors capable of installing new
wells and improving existing wells. Electric and diesel pumpsets are avail-
able within India and should pose no constraints on the project.
4.03      Because of the danger of overdevelopment of certain areas, invest-
ments under the project for addit:Lonal groundwater development within thle
designated "districts containing intensively developed and/or potential
problem areas" (para 2.06) would be contingent upon ARC's prior approval of
rnore detailed technical studies and reports to justify the development
(Schedule A). An assurance on this point was obtained at negotiations. It
was also agreed that CGWB would, before August 31, 1975, provide IDA with



- 17 -
a list of specified areas within the districts shown in Schedule A, in which
there is a danger of over-exploitation.
4.04      Minimum spacing between wells is important to avoid mutual inter-
ference between individual water users (para 2.07) and is equally important
to determine maximum permissible density of wells in a given area, to pre-
vent overdevelopment or "mining" of groundwater. Recommended minimum well
spacing and maximum well density for dug wells and shallow tubewells in
on-going IDA credit projects have been determined by empirical formulae
derived originally for use in hard rock areas. Although these formulae
have proved satisfactory in practice, simplified formulae based on the
experience gained over the past five years have been agreed for this proj-
ect (Schedule B).
4.05      Some investments would be for lift irrigation schemes.  Loans
would be made to groups of farmers or cooperatives to underake construc-
tion, operation and maintenance of intake, pumping plant and distribution
systems. Competent private consultants and state agencies are generally
available to investigate the feasibility of such schemes and to prepare
the necessary plans and specifications for review by ARC. Although there
might be some delays in obtaining the necessary materials and equipment,
due to the general Indian situation, there would be no difficulty in find-
ing competent local contractors for the construction work.
4.06      Some of the schemes would be in the eastern states, particularly
Assam, Bihar, and Orissa, where perennial surface water supplies are ade-
quate from rivers or oxbow channels. In the peninsula, lack of water supply
may preclude this type of development. In all cases a careful determination
of the availability of water, without interfering with prior or downstream
users, would be made. In evaluating water supply in the peninsula, attention
would be given to the net depletion resulting from recent and future ground-
water developments and the effect this would have on the base flow of the
stream. An assurance on this point was obtained from ARC at negotiations.
Diversified Lending
4.07      Diversified lending would enable IDA to participate in many
schemes too small to appraise directly. Funds have not been allocated to
specific sectors but areas of probable lending have been identified (paras
2.09-2.12): tree crops, dairy and poultry, sericulture, fisheries and
storage. Until further experience has been gained with ongoing markets
projects (para 3.03), proposals for lending for marketing and storage
related thereto would be referred to IDA for approval before being sanc-
tioned by ARC (Schedule C). An assurance on this point was obtained from
ARC at negotiations.



- 18 -
Small Farmer and Small Farmer Beneficiary
4.08      In accordance with present criteria agreed with GOI and ARC, to
be eligible for small farmer concessional lending terms, a farmer should
not cultivate an aggregate area in excess of such as will yield a total
farm post development income of Rs 2,400 per annum. For this purpose,
total farm income is income net of cultivation costs but not of principal
and interest due on the loan, and includes both incremental farm income
accruing from the investment on the loan in the land benefitting from it
as well as farm income from the land not so benefitting. This criterion
applies without variation to all states. However, from experience with
on-going IDA credit projects relatively few bona-fide small farmers qualify
under this definition.  Accordingly a revised small farmer definition based
on pre-development income was agreed at negotiations (Schedule D). This
definition is consistent with the absolute poverty criterion in the
recent Bank Group rural development policy report (No. 588, December 2, 1974).
4.09      The 1962 Indian Planning Commission Study Group determined that
Rs 20 per capita consumption per month in 1960/61 prices was a minimum
living level for All-India. This criterion has been adopted in the Fifth
Plan as a welfare norm and is the basis for the revised small farmer defi-
nition, which would be adjusted Eor differential price movements in the
All-India price index as applied to individual states. The new definition
covers any farmer cultivating land providing an annual predevelopment net
return to the farm family of not more than Rs 2,000 (US$250) based on 1972
prices. The definition stresses the ability of a certain physical farm
size to support a given level of farm family consumption, and reflects the
growing acceptance of poverty defined in terms of present per capita con-
sumption. It is equivalent to an annual per capita income level of US$50,
below which absolute poverty prevails.
4.10      Small farmers, as defined in Schedule D, would qualify for pref-
erential borrowing terms (para 5.19) provided that the income from their
investments would be adequate to repay the loans over a given period, and
that they had established their creditworthiness.
4.11      Current statistics on classification of loans by size of land
holding are not yet complete (para 2.15), but in 1972/73 almost 70% by
number of loans made in 10 states were to farmers with holdings of 4 ha
or less. These data cannot be directly related to the new definition of
a small farmer, but it is likely that well over one-third by value of the
loans made by LDB in the 10 states in 1972/73 were to small farmers as so
defined. Accordingly, given the new emphasis on lending in the eastern
states where smallholdings predominate, loans to small farmers under this
project should reach a minimum of 50% by value, given suitable encouragement
to such lending by ARC, LDB and piarticipating CB. Thus in the first instance
a minimum of 50% of the IDA Credit would be set aside for loans to small
farmers. ARC agreed to: (a) make a minimum of US$37 million equivalent of
the proceeds of the Credit available for lending to small farmers; and (b)
maintain separate records for this portion.



-19 -
Training and Studies (Annex 6)
4.12      Training and studies would cover:
(a) LDB staff training and study of training requirements:
There is an urgent need for immediate, intensified
training of senior and middle-level LDB management
(para 3.07), together with an early study in each
state to advise on training requirements for junior-
level staff. Training of junior-level staff would
follow completion of the study, and IDA's agreement
with the program (para 5.27). There is a real but
lower priority need for training of CB, SCB, ARC,
Central and State Government senior and middle-level
staff; these would be trained, in limited numbers
and on a selective basis, simultaneously with LDB
staff. The CAB would be the chief training institution
executing this program. Some training would be given
at other institutions selected by ARC, provided that
the Project Planning and Appraisal course, as currently
taught at CAB, is offered at those other institutions
by instructors approved by ARC.
(b) Merger of credit cooperatives: Under the Indian
cooperative system seasonal loans are available
through the state cooperative banking structure
and long-term credit for capital investment through
LDB. Farmers, therefore, suffer from being unable
to obtain seasonal and long-term credit from the
same organization. GOI agreed that a study would be
made to investigate tne problems and possibilities of
a merger of the two credit cooperative systems under
Terms of Reference acceptable to IDA, the results to
be available not later than July 31, 1976.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.13      Estimated project cost and foreign exchange requirements are:
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
---------Rs M--------  -------US$ M---------        %
Minor Irrigation             1,174    60      1,234  146.5    7.5    154.0       5.0
Diversified Lending            100      -       100   12.5      -      12.5       -
LDB Training and Studies        16      -        16    2.0      -       2.0       -
Total Project Cost           1,290    60      1,350  161.0    7.5    168.5       4.5



- 20 -
Cost estimates are based on present prices plus a cost increase allowance
reflecting the anticipated inflation during the disbursement period. 1/ As
for most agricultural credit projects, there is no allowance for physical
contingencies and estimates are based on cost of typical investments at
the time of appraisal.
4.14      Finance to cover the total cost of Rs 1,350 million (US$168.5 million
equivalent) would come from the following sources:
FARMERS       BANKS     ARC / GtI   TOTAL          IDA
RsM    %    RsM   %       RsM    %      RsM    RsM    %
Minor Irrigation   124   10    110    9   1,000  81/   1,234    552    45
Diversified
Lending            10   10      18   18        72  72I      100     40    40
LDB Training                                           /b
and Studies                     -              16 100-       16      8    50
Total          134   10    128    9   1,088  81    1,350    600    44
/a   ARC.
/b   GOI.
4.15      The IDA Credit of US$75 million (Rs 600 million) would finance
about 44% of project costs and would supply 55% of ARC support for the
projects. It would be on standard terms to GOI. Onward lending terms
through ARC to ultimate borrowers are set out in Schedule C. A Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, would be executed between GOI and ARC,
under which GOI would make: (a) 1JS$1 million of the IDA proceeds available
to ARC as a grant for LDB training and studies; and (b) US$74 million avail-
able to ARC, repayable partly over 9 years at 6.75% and partly over 15 years
at 7.25% (with 0.25% rebate for prompt repayments of principal and interest).
GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk. ARC would on-lend to participating
banks under agreements acceptable to IDA at an interest rate of 7.5% minimum
per annum computed on outstanding indebtedness. Participating banks would
lend to ultimate borrowers at a minimum of 10.5% per annum for minor irriga-
tion and 11% for diversified lending. These rates are in line with the pre-
vailing interest rate structure in India, and spreads are reasonable consid-
ering the risks involved and the cost of appraisal and supervision of individ-
ual loans.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
4.16      Project execution would involve small investment items on indi-
vidual widely scattered farms with purchases spread over two years. Thus
1/   Average costs of tubewells znfJ vmis,:Sets iSncreased by about 235k in 1974
ovez 197k  nd are:-ri'retA   zx'eete  s- icrease by 15% in 1975 and
2% a year tR>reafter.



- 21 -
capital equipment could not be bulked for centralized procurement to
attract international competitive bidding. There is an adequate choice
from suppliers of imported and locally manufactured equipment, and prices
are competitive. Procurement would consequently be through normal com-
mercial channels by individual farmers according to their choice, as is
the case in all on-going IDA agricultural credit projects in India.
Disbursements
4.17      IDA disbursements would be over two years and would cover 55% of
ARC refinance for minor irrigation and diversified lending, and 50% of the
cost of training and studies. Documents for the refinance component would
not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by ARC and be
available for inspection by IDA during project supervision. Disbursements
for training and studies would be made against appropriate documentation.
A schedule of estimated quarterly disbursements is in Annex 12.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Introduction
5.01      Project financing and organizational arrangements would generally
follow the pattern established under the ten existing IDA-supported agri-
cultural credit projects. Thus ARC would refinance by way of loans or pur-
chase of debentures up to 90% of individual loans issued by participating
banks. Although estimated CB share of total project loans is likely to be
between 12% to 15%, all the lending banks would compete among themselves
for project business, and there would be no allocation as between LDB and
CB for any specific share of the total. SCB have not been included in any
of the ten on-going agricultural credit projects. However, GOI and ARC
expect SCB to play a more important role in longer term agricultural
financing, particularly in the lesser developed north eastern states.
Therefore, to enable them to participate in the project on a limited scale,
up to US$0.5 million of the Credit would be available to them. To be eligible
to participate, a SCB must have a collection rate of not less than 75% of
demand, and must apply the same lending criteria as other participating
banks. ARC would maintain separate records for this portion.
B. Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Amendments to ARC's Constitution
5.02      The ARC Act, 1973, was recently amended to enable ARC in special
cases to dispense with security or guarantee, the reasons to be recorded
in writing in each case. GOI is considering further amendments which would
enable ARC to:



- 22 -
(a)  finance any institution recommended by RBI and
approved by GOI;
(b) dispense with RBI approval for any scheme involving
more than Rs 5 million;
(c) increase its authorized share capital from Rs 250
million to Rs 500 million immediately and provide
for a further increase to Rs 1 billion.
Several other minor amendments of a routine nature are also under considera-
tion.
5.03      At present ARC can only lend to LDB, SCB and participating CB.  If
ARC were enabled to lend direct to any approved institution as proposed in
para 5.02(a) above it would require a much enlarged operational organization
both at headquarters and in the regions to cover the additional work ade-
quately. It is currently not equipped for the task, and in view of its
rapid expansion over the past few years, it would be inadvisable for it to
take on this additional burden at present. The next few years should see only
a relatively modest expansion in staff, and should be spent in assimilating
the enlarged staff, in consolidating operational procedures and in improving
staff training. The current status of these proposed amendments was discussed
at negotiations. Since GOI has decided to proceed with the amendment to allow
direct lending to approved institutions, ARC's policy would be that during
the project disbursement period stuch lending would only take place in excep-
tional circumstances, and only where ARC was fully satisfied that it had
the administrative and technical capacity to administer the loan. ARC would
not make such loans at more favourable interest rates and repayment periods
than would be applied to similar loans financed by LDB or CB. ARC agreed
to keep IDA informed of its commit:ments for direct lending and to review
with IDA from time to time the results of such lending. GOI would not make
further amendments to the ARC Act throughout the project period without prior
discussion with IDA. Currently ARC has to obtain RBI approval for every
scheme costing more than Rs 5 million. In view of ARC's competence such
approval is no longer necessary, and the proposed amendment to the ARC Act
would eliminate it.
Share Capital
5.04      ARC's projected balance sheets show an increase in total assets
from Rs 2.2 billion in 1972/73 to Rs 8.0 billion in 1977/78. The increase
is expected to be financed through additional borrowings (94%) and increases
in capital and reserves (6%). If paid-up capital is to increase as pro-
jected, the present Rs 250 million authorized share capital must be in-
creased by July 1, 1976. The statutory limit of ARC's ratio of total lia-
bilities to equity is 20:1. This is in line with similar institutions
assisted by the Bank Group in other countries, and is appropriate consid-
ering that ARC is a closely superv:ised subsidiary of RBI and that the ARC
Act stipulates !RIT must hold at least 50%, and SLD1N and SCB 30%, of ARC's



- 23 -
shares. With the projected increases in paid-up capital shown in Annex 4,
Table 7, ARC's ratio of total liabilities to equity would fluctuate between
17:1 and 15:1 during the period 1973/74 through 1977/78; safely below the
present statutory limit of 20:1. During negotiations GOI agreed that no
disbursements would be made after July 31, 1976 unless ARC's authorized
capital has been increased to not less than Rs 500 million, and that such
equity has been paid in to ensure at all times that ARC's debt/equity ratio
does not exceed 20:1.
Lending Criteria
5.05      ARC would ensure that lending banks followed spacing criteria for
minor irrigation as detailed in Schedule B, and lending criteria outlined
in Schedule C. With the exception of contributions by: (i) small farmers
(reduced from 10% to 5%); and (ii) farmers cultivating land providing a
pre-development net return to family resources ranging from Rs 2,001 to
Rs 3,500, based on 1972 prices, these follow closely the criteria for on-going
IDA projects. 1/ An assurance on these points was obtained from ARC at
negotiations. ARC would approve diversified lending schemes having invest-
ment costs not exceeding US$0.5 million equivalent and all minor irrigation
schemes. Since large scale diversified lending is new to ARC, applications
for refinance of diversified lending schemes having total investment costs
exceeding US$0.5 million equivalent would be sent to IDA for final approval
(Schedule C).
5.06      ARC agreed that it would not make any finance available to any LDB
whose collection rate falls below the levels set out in para 5.11.
Project Evaluation
5.07      ARC agreed to set-up a system acceptable to IDA, to evaluate the
financial viability and advantages to beneficiaries from project investments.
It would assess the impact of the project on income distribution. It would
also provide a basis for improvement of future project preparation and
appraisal, including better physical input and output projections and their
relationship for use in farm models. When fully operational the system would
be extended to include all on-going IDA credit projects. ARC would execute
it and eventually extend it as proposed. A proposal outlining the objectives,
nature and scope of such a system is at Annex 7.
Progress Reports
5.03      ARC has agreed to send quarterly and annual progress reports to
IDA to provide information on significant events which occurred during the
1/   Under on-going projects small farmers' minimum contributions are 10%
of the cost of pumpsets and dugwells and 15% of tubewells (10% for
groups of small farmers).



- 24 -
reporting period, together with an evaluation of progress achieved and of
prospects for future progress. The quarterly reports would include major
problems encountered and anticipated, and solutions proposed; the annual
reports would include copies of ARC projected budgets and financial estimates,
together with the audited accounts of ARC for each fiscal year and a copy
of the auditors report. Progress reports on the evaluation system (para 5.07)
would also be sent annually. Guidelines for the progress reports are in
Annex 8; on the basis of these guidelines ARC would prepare the necessary
format for the returns, to be agreed with IDA.
Land Development Bank Debentures
5.09      LDB are established under state law but inspected and regulated by
RBI. Since the bulk of LDB borrowings is made through special debentures
bought by ARC and ordinary debentures authorized by RBI, these two institu-
tions share the responsibility of regulating the credit flow to LDB. How-
ever, RBI and ARC have not always applied the same criteria for the issuance
of debentures (para 3.08). In orcer to improve the position, assurances were
obtained from GOI during negotiations that a study would be made jointly by
RBI and ARC of the requirements for issuance of LDB debentures as well as
the best means of implementing these requirements. The study should be com-
pleted by July 31, 1976.
5.10      GOI has agreed that the current informal joint RBI-ARC committee
(chaired by RBI) would be made official and continue to monitor LDB financial
performance and the issue of LDB clebentures. The criteria for debenture
issues would be as close as possible to those agreed with ARC for this
project (para 5.11). They would also take into account the special needs
of primary societies located in districts where SFDA schemes have been
sanctioned, as well as those of small farmers. Formal establishment of
the committee would be a condition of effectiveness.  Draft guidelines for
the study and outline Terms of Reference for the committee are in Annex 9,
and were agreed at negotiations.
C. Land Development Banks and Commercial Banks
Land Development Banks
5.11      The problem of overdues, and the methods adopted to improve col-
lections in the more recent IDA credit projects, have been discussed above
(para 3.09). Under this project the objective would be to bring all LDB
up to a standard level after October 1, 1977. After that date ARC would
not refinance any SLDB branch or a PLDB if its physical collection was less
than 65% of demand, and unless its recovery rate had been brought up to 75%O
by the injection of equity from the state government. Prior to that date,
as an interim measure to encourage participation in the seven states with-
out on-going IDA projects, where the overdues situation is generally worse,
and to prevent slippage in the overdues situation in those states with



- 25 -
on-going IDA projects, a formula would be applied to all LDB linking debenture
eligibility to recovery performance. LDB would be eligible to issue a per-
centage of the debentures (ordinary and special) they issued in previous years
as follows:
Range of Overdues at                 Debenture Eligibility
Primary/Branch Level on June 30   as Ratio of Previous Years Issue
(% of demand)                               (%)
0 - 25                             unrestricted
26 - 35                                  80
36 - 45                                  70
46 - 55                                  60
56 - 60                                  50
61 and above                             nil
Under this formula any SLDB branch or PLDB which had already achieved 75%
recovery rate would not be refinanced by ARC if its recovery rate fell below
75%, taking into account any state government injection of equity paid in
to reduce overdues. At the same time, any SLDB branch or PLDB which had
not achieved 75% at date of effectiveness would not be eligible for refinance
if its recovery rate was less than that of the previous year. When calculating
debenture eligibility ARC would take into account state government injection
of equity up to a maximum of 10% of demand. The above arrangements were
agreed at negotiations.
5.12      A problem common to LDB in many states is the practice of seconding
state government staff, particularly from the Cooperative Division, to many
of their top positions. While many such officers are able administrators,
they lack the necessary banking experience to run an LDB efficiently. MIore-
over, frequent staff changes which occur as a result of this practice lead
to a lack of management continuity, with its consequent adverse effect on
efficiency and staff morale. As a condition of approval of individual schemes
within this project, ARC would seek assurances from state governments that
among the objectives for LDB in project areas would be their ultimate staff-
ing with direct employees only, and that, in consultation with state govern-
ments and ARC, the LDB would work towards this objective as rapidly as
practicable.
Commercial Banks
5.13      The disadvantages which CB have faced in some states through unequal
treatment compared with LDB over security registration, priority of charges
and stamp duty (para 2.19) are being overcome as more states enact legisla-
tion to give them parity. Bihar is the latest state to introduce such
legislation. In states where CB are still at a disadvantage, ARC would
continue to encourage state governments to work towards early implementation
of suitable legislation.



- 26 -
D. Central and State Governments
5.14      Agricultural development: is the responsibility of state governments.
In on-going credit projects, IDA has separate agreements with them covering
inter-alia obligations and performance of LDB and state technical supporting
services. For on-going schemes ouLtside IDA projects ARC has obtained similar
undertakings from them. These are! satisfactory, and would continue under
this project.
5.15      The risk of over exploitation of groundwater resources is becoming
serious in crystalline areas and others where the aquifer recharge is low
relative to well operations (para 4.03). On-going IDA credit projects have
attempted groundwater control by obtaining agreement that well spacing and
density criteria would be applied through each state to all loans made by
LDB and participating CB with an undertaking from state governments to
cooperate in applying them. There is, however, no control over farmers using
their own resources, or borrowing from non-institutional resources to install
a tubewell. Without effective statutory control, there is danger of over-
pumping. A model state groundwater law has been prepared by GOI and circulated
to all state governments. As yet, Rajasthan is the only one to enact legis-
lation, although most others are aware of its importance, and some are con-
sidering enactment.  GOI and ARC would continue,:to encourage state governments
to regulate groundwater exploitation, particularly by enacting suitable
legislation.
E. Lending Terms and Conditions
Interest Rates
5.16      Project lending terms and conditions are detailed in Schedule C.
They follow closely current rates for institutional lending for agriculture
throughout India, including lending under on-going projects. IDA funds would
be on-lent by ARC to participating CB, LDB and SCB at an annual interest
rate of 7.5% minimum, for on-lending to final borrowers at 10.5% minimum for
minor irrigation and 11%o minimum for diversified lending. This margin would
be adequate to cover the direct administrative costs of lending (which
average about 1.7% for all-India) and to allow the build up of suitable
reserves by ARC and participating banks. It does not take into consideration
indirect costs (for which there is not as yet sufficient data available to
quantify) such as technical supporting services provided by state governments
to LDB (particularly through the cooperative department, including audit)
and through groundwater and extension services. In addition, lending banks
could charge an evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost of individual investments;
in the case of LDB this would be retained by the PLDB. Interest rates to
farmers (currently 10.5% to 11%) have progressively been revised upward since
1970 (7.75%) to bring them in line with the increasing costs of administering
loans,



- 27 -
Security
5.17      CB secure their loans by first mortgages on land, chattel mortgages,
guarantees or other acceptable securities. LDB are required by law to obtain
a first mortgage on land for all loans, and in most cases they also take a lien
on any equipment purchased with the loans. If LDB lend more than 50% of the
value of the land a state government guarantee is required, and this has been
readily forthcoming when necessary. However, the insistence on land mortgages
as security for LDB loans is a constraint on their lending, particularly in
states where land registration is not up-to-date, and they are at a dis-
advantage compared with CB. Relaxation of this constraint is unavoidably
a gradual process. In most cases, liberalization of security requirements
need amendment of state LDB statutes. Furthermore, a shifting from security
based lending to development oriented lending requires improved staff ttaining
and better follow-up procedures to avoid undue losses. Yet, such changes
are essential before LDB can reach the mass of small farmers. The problem
has been raised with GOI and ARC in connection with on-going projects, and
was further discussed at negotiations with the object of accomplishing
liberalisation as rapidly as practicable. ARC has agreed that, following
the procedures of on-going credit projects, LDB valuation for project loans
would be based on the estimated value of land after development resulting
from the loan.
Borrower's Contribution to Investment Cost and Repayments
5.18      Under the project the minimum contribution of a borrower with a
pre--development income ranging from Rs 2,001 to Rs 3,500 (based on 1972
prices) would be 10% of the investment costs; for farmers with pre-develop-
ment income exceeding Rs 3,500 the minimum contribution would be 10% of
thie investment costs of pumpsets and 15% of other investments. For small
farmers (defined in Schedule D) the contribution would be 5% for all lending.
All farmers' contributions would include the value of any family labor
applied to the investment. For loans from LDB it would also include the
maandatory 5% contribution to share capital. Repayment periods would not
exceed the life of the assets financed.  For pumpsets they would be seven
years maximnum to all farmers; for tubewells nine years maximum to normal
farmers, and fifteen years to small farmers. For diversified lending the
repayment periods would conform to the farmers ability to repay, with a
maximum of fifteen years. Where shown to be necessary, grace periods would
be allowed.
5.19      Under on-going projects small farmers contribute a minimum of
10'/ of the cost of pumpsets and dug wells, and 10% to 15% of tubewells.
The decision to reduce their contribution to 5% for all lending under this
project is linked to the revised definition of a small farmer (para 4.09).
This broader concept is expected to result in many more farmers participating
in this project.  A 10% or higher contribution would prove a constraint
to their participation. However, the attractions of participation would
be sufficiently great to induce many of them to borrow from non-institutional
sources at high interest rates to meet the down-payment, thereby jeopardising



- 28 -
their loan repayment capacity. Both GOI and ARC consider 5% to be within
the capabilities of the more progressive small farmers and IDA endorses
tneir view. If the combination of the revised small farmer definition and
lowered down-payment prove successful in practice, GOI intends to examine
the need for continuing the present subsidised SFDA/MFDA Schemes (para 3.22),
since many of the farmers involved would qualify as small farmers under the
revised definition.
Lending Policies
5.20      Lending terms summarized above and detailed in Schedule C would
apply to all project lending. Some LDB current lending outside IDA projects
does not conform to these terms, but for all future lending for similar
purposes it would do so.
Seasonal Credit
5.21      For borrowers to obtain optimum returns from their investments,
they must have access to adequate seasonal credit for operational expenses.
The most important items are fertilizer and seed. Borrowers obtaining loans
from CB would have no difficulty in obtaining seasonal credit from them,
since it is their normal policy to supplement investment loans with some
seasonal credit, particularly for fertilizer and seeds. Borrowers obtaining
project loans from LDB would be cooperative members, whose usual source of
seasonal credit is the primary societies (para 2.14). While no assurances
can be given that they will receive adequate credit each season, borrowing
farmers (whether large or small) are likely to be among the more progressive,
and thus more likely to obtain whatever credit is available. The proposed
study of a merger of the two cooperative systems (para 4.12 (b)), included
in this project, would focus on the problems of linking long-term loans with
adequate seasonal credit.
Accounts and Audit
5.22      The accounting and auditing procedures proposed for this project
would be identical to those followed in all on-going IDA credit projects.
The accounts of CB are audited by commercial accounting firms and scrutinized
by RBI. Audited accounts of participating banks would be submitted through
ARC to iDA within four months after the end of each fiscal year, together
with a statement certified by ARC, showing their lending under the project.
Accounts of LDB are audited by a section within each state government's
cooperative department. These aucits, which are acceptable to IDA, would
continue, and each participating SLDB audited accounts would be submitted
through ARC to IDA within four mortis after the end of each fiscal year.
Assurances on these points have been obtained from ARC.



- 29 -
5.23      As for on-going projects, ARC has agreed that the audit of its
accounts would continue to be made by auditors acceptable to IDA (currently
N.M. Raiji and Co.).
F. Land Development Banks-Staff Training Programs and Study
5.24      The College of Agricultural Banking (CAB), Poona has been desig-
nated by RBI as the chief future training institution for senior and middle-
level staff of ACD, ARC, and LDB. CAB also now handles a portion of the
training requirements of CB and cooperative banks. From October, 1969, to
January, 1974, it has trained about 2,300 officials in the 80 courses at
Poona, and another 250 in 8 courses elsewhere. About 1,000 of these of-
ficials were from LDB and CB, the remainder from cooperative banks.
5.25      Training of CB staff is widespread, but agricultural banking is
only a very small part of it. Training takes place through: (a) the 76 staff
training colleges, and centers, located in virtually every large city in
India and run by the larger CB for their own staff; (b) short courses and
seminars conducted by the National Institute of Bank Management (NIBM)
throughout the country; (c) courses run by CAB; and (d) courses at the
Bankers' Training College (BTC) in Bombay.
5.26      Training has been effective in helping to improve the performance
of those LDB already involved in IDA projects, and its continuation and im-
provement are essential for further IDA involvement. Training needs of LDB
are great, from SLDB through PLDB. The project plan is based on: (a) the
estimated minimum number who should be trained in order that the two-year
lending program can succeed; and (b) practical constraints such as the fea-
sibility of releasing staff long enough to receive training and the capacity
of training institutions.
5.27      Out of the US$1.0 million allocated to LDB training and studies
US$0.2 million would help finance a feasibility study on merging LDB and
short-term cooperative credit institutions (para 4.12(b)). The balance of
US$0.8 million would be used for:
(a) intensified training of about 800 senior and middle-level
LDB staff and a limited number from other banks and
agencies mentioned in para 4.12(a) (US$0.2 million).
It was agreed at negotiations that ARC would plan the program
and that it would be a condition of effectiveness that the
program was satisfactory to IDA. ARC would also be responsible
for executing it.
(b) a study of training requirements for junior-level staff
of LDB, under the direction of ARC (US$0.2 million).



- 30 -
The object would be to learn what significant train-
ing is needed for professional personnel below middle-
level. Outline terms of reference are in Annex 6, Ap-
pendix 3. ARC agreed that the study, which would
cover all LDB, would take about 6 months and be completed
by October 31, 1975. It would be under direction of ARC
and be made mainly by the SLDB themselves.
(c)  training of junior-level LDB staff (notional US$0.4 million).
It was agreed that, after the study, the resulting programs
would be approved by the agencies concerned, including IDA,
and implemented under the direction of ARC over the next
two years.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS
General
6.01      To show financial viability of minor irrigation investments, five
models from recent IDA agricultural credit projects have been updated as
required, analyzed and summarized below. To illustrate financial viability
of diversified lending an orchard and a sericulture model from the Drought
Prone Areas Project appraisal report were used (Annex 10).
Minor Irrigation
6.02      Based on the five minor irrigation models, representing a typical
cross section by region and technology, about 130,000 ha would be irrigated.
This would have the effect of: (a) obtaining more reliable and higher yields
from areas of sparse and uncertain rainfall; and (b) increasing cropping in-
tensity from an average of 103% to 166% through increased cultivation during
the rabi season, thus bringing the gross sown area under the project to a total
of about 300,000 lha. If seed varieties and fertilizer meet the levels assumed
in the models, full development production increases would be about 350,000
tons of foodgrains, 290,000 tons of sugarcane, 225,000 tons of fruits, vege-
tables, and chillies and 30,000 tons of fibercrops (cotton lint and seed,
and jute). The bulk of the foodgrain increases would be wheat and paddy.
6.03      Most of the increased produce, particularly foodgrains, are in
short supply throughout India, and prices are expected to remain high. How-
ever, farm gate prices in some project areas could be substantially raised
by improved marketing systems. The financial prices of commodities in the
models are in line with IBRD world market price forecasts 1/.
1/   IBRD/IDA; Price forecasts for Major Primary Commodities (Report No.
467). June 19, 1974.



- 31 -
6.04      Updated minor irrigation models described in paragraph 6.01 are
shown in Annex 10. Project cropping intensity would increase from a range
of 100% to 110% to one of 139% to 190%, resulting in considerably higher
net incomes to cultivators. Before development the command area holders of
a typical dug well and shallow tubewell would.qualify as small farmers
(Schedule D). After debt service (which is normally completed in less than
half of the life of the investment) full development income would be about
two to seven times the predevelopment level.
6.05      Financial rates of return would range from 18% to 43%.  Sensitiv-
ity tests showed that in general the financial rates of return are only
moderately sensitive to productivity decreases and to investment cost in-
creases. The most important conclusion of the sensitivity tests is that
investment in minor irrigation in India remains generally financially sound
and attractive to the investor.
Diversified Lending
6.06      Diversified lending would lead to production increases, particu-
larly of milk, poultry and silk as well as quality improvements in products
such as coffee and fruits through storage, processing and marketing devel-
opment. Production increases resulting from diversified lending cannot be
determined due to uncertain allocation of funds. Investment in mixed or-
chards typically would consist of planting mango, sapota, jack and limes.
All produce would be marketed locally. The best estimate financial rate of
return would be 15%. Sericulture farms would be unirrigated; about 20% of
investment would be for mulberry development and the balance made up of
silkworm management facilities including sheds, stands, trays, mountings
and tools. Full productivity would be reached in three years. Although
the financial rate of return (best estimate 33%) is fairly sensitive to
investment cost increases and benefit decrease, investment in sericulture
development is sound, particularly in view of the bright export prospects and
rising export prices for silk.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Summary of Benefits
7.01      The main benefits from the project would be:  (a) increased agri-
cultural production, particularly foodgrain; (b) substantial income increases
for over 100,000 farmers, of whom at least one-half would be small farmers,
and their dependents, a total of 400,000 to 600,000 persons; (c) institu-
tional development: (i) ARC would be strengthened as a broad based agricul-
tural development institution; (ii) the efficiency of LDB throughout India
would improve through intensified training of staff at all levels; and
(iii) improved water management; and (d) other benefits described in Annex
11 (including improved export potential and quality of fruit).



- 32 -
Production Increases
7.02      Because of low worldwide food stocks and surpluses it is impera-
tive that India improves its food situation. Almost as important is a rise
in the production of non-food crops. These are inter-related problems. Both
depend on the creation of additional cultivated area through irrigation and
double cropping (there is little remaining unused land suitable for cultiva-
tion), and on improved yields. The potential for the latter is greater in
the food crops than the non-food crops. Hence the key to satisfactory and
balanced agricultural development is a larger irrigated area (with related
land improvement measures), and a very substantial advance in grain yields.
Such yield improvements would allow the use of a large part of the addi-
tional gross area for non-food crops.
7.03      Based on an estimated 105,000 loans to individual and groups of
farmers, the increase in production would be valued at about Rs 525 million,
of which foodgrains, mainly grown during the presently fallow rabi season,
would account for about 70%. This would help GOI and state governments
achieve their target of food self-sufficiency, and represent a sizeable
saving of foreign exchange for food imports. Reliable irrigation in the
most favorable cropping season would assure a high level of crop production
every year, and would decrease year-to-year grain supply fluctuations.
Institutional Improvements
7.04      The project would assist in improving the operational efficiency of
both ARC and LDB. In addition, the evaluation system would facilitate optimum
formulation of future projects (para 5.07). LDB throughout India would be
strengthened by intensified training of their staff at all levels, supervised
by ARC. State governments and LDB would be encouraged to intensify their
programs for recovering overdues. The project would aid the continuing
improvement in state government supporting services, particularly groundwater
and extension organizations.
Economic Rates of Return
7.05      Project output was valued at financial farm-gate prices, which are
in line with predicted world market prices (para 6.03).  For materials, cur-
rent price levels net of import, excise, and sales taxes, as well as sub-
sidies, were used for investments and in calculating operating costs. Most
models were adjusted for shadow labor rates which reflect the abundant fam-
ily labor supply during the rabi season. Based on these assumptions, the
rates of return to the economy range between 26% and 49% for the minor ir-
rigation models (Annex 11). Economic rates of return for the diversified
lending models are 14% for mixed orchards and 25% for sericulture farms.



- 33 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACiED AND RECOMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(i)  a new and improved definition of "small farmer"
(para 4.08);
(ii)  a minimum of US$37 million equivalent of the Credit
proceeds to be used for lending to small farmers
(para 4.11);
(iii) a study of the problems and prospects of a merger
of the two cooperative credit systems (para 4.12(b));
(iv)  new LDB collection criteria to enable farmers in
the less-developed states to participate (para
5.11); and
(v)  the LDB staff training program, and the study of
training requirements for junior LDB staff (para 5.27).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and ARC, acceptable
to IDA, had been executed (para 4.15);
(b)  a joint committee to formulate common requirements for the
issuance of all LDB debentures had been formally established
(para 5.10); and
(c)  IDA had approved a training program for senior and middle-
level staff of LDB (para 5.27(a)).
8.03      The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$75 million on
standard terms.
March 28, 1975






SCHEDULE A
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Groundwater Utilization
Districts containing Intensively Developed and/or Potential Problem Areas
State           District                  State                 District
Gujarat         Ahmedabad                 Punjab               Amritsar
Banaskantha                                    Bhatinda
Baroda                                          Ferozepur
Kaira                                           Kapurthana (west)
Kutch                                           Sangrur
Mehsana
Rajasthan            Barmer
Haryana         Gurgaon                                         Bikaner
Hissar                                          Churu
Monhindergarh                                   Ganaganagar
Rohtak                                          Jaisalmer
Jalor
;;Iadhya        Dewas                                           Jodhpur
Pradesh         Indore                                          Nagaur
Pali
Maharashtra    Admednagar
Dhulia                    Tamil Nadu            Coimbatore
Jalgaon                                        North Arcot
Nasik
Sangli                    Uttar Pradesh        Aligarh
Sholapur                                        Badaun
Bulanshar
Karnataka       Bijapur                                         Meerut
Kolar                                          Moradabad
Tumkur
West Bengal          Howrah
Orissa          Balasore                                        Midnapore
Cuttack                                         24 Parganas
Puri



SCHEDULE B
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Spacing and Density of Wells
A)   Spacing of Wells
To avoid danger of excessive interference of tubewells, their
spacing shall be determined for any area by the following formula:
RxA
S  =  100
r
B)   Density of Wells
Density of wells within an elementary watershed would be deter-
mined by application of the following formula:
lOOr
d  =            RxA
where     S  =  distance between wells in meters
2
d = density (wells/km )
R  =  total crop irrigation requirement (mm/ha)
for all crops grown in normal pattern on
the irrigated area
A  =  size of the area to be irrigated (ha)
r  =  estimated annual recharge (mm)



SCHEDULE C
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Project Lending Terms and Conditions
Tne following lending terms and conditions would be used in imple-
menting the project and would not be altered without prior IDA agreement:
1.        GOI to ARC
(a) For ARC refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 6.75% minimum, less
0.25% for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years;
(b) For ARC re.financing for more than 9 and up to 15 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 7.25% minimum, less
0.25% for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years;
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.
2.        ARC to Lending Banks
(a) Annual interest rate of 7.5% minimum;
(b) Installment repayments to coincide approximately with
collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) Refinancing by purchase of debentures or by loans up to
90% of individual loans.
3.        Lending Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(I) Minor Irrigation:
(a) Annual interest rate of 10.5% minimum;
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost
of project investments may be charged;



SCHiEDULE C
Page 2
(c) Farmers' contributions (including obligatory purchase of
LDB shares, own labor, and other contributions in cash
or kind):
(i) for lending to small farmers, a minimum of 5% of
the cost of any investment;
(ii)  for farmers cultivating land providing a pre-development
net return to family resources ranging from Rs 2,001 to
Rs 3,500 based on 1972 prices, a minimum of 10% of the
investment cost; and
(iii) for other farmers, a minimum of 10% of the cost of
pumpsets and 15% for other minor irrigation investments.
(d) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's
repayment capacity, but not to exceed:
(i) for normal lending:
(a)  7 years on loans for pumpsets, whetner financed
as separate loans or included in other minor
irrigation loans; and
(b)  9 years on loans for minor irrigation, other than
pumpsets;
(ii)  for lending to small farmers:
(a)  7 years on loans for pumpsets, whetner financed
as separate loans or included in other minor
irrigation loans; and
(b)  15 years for all other minor irrigation loans;
(e)  Grace periods not exceeding 23 months from tile date of the first
installment of the loans, taking into account a full kharif and
rabi crop, may be granted at the discretion of ARC, provided
that the repayment period of such loans is not exceeded.
(f)  Technical standards, in particular spacing criteria, as laid
down by ARC to be observed.
(g)  If his cultivated area was significantly smaller than that
which could be adequately irrigated by the tubewell concerned,
the borrower would undertake to sell water surplus to his needs,
or to hire out his pumpset. or to participate witi other farmers
in the joint investment anct operation of the tubewell.



SCHEDULE C
Page 3
(II) Diversified Lending:
(a) Annual interest rate of 11% minimum;
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the
cost of investment may be charged;
(c) Farmers' contributions (including obligatory purchase of
LDB shares, own labor, and other contributions in cash or
kind):
(i) for lending to small farmers, a minimum of 5% of
investment cost;
(ii) for farmers cultivating land providing a pre-development
net return to family resources ranging from Rs 2,001 to
Rs 3,500 based on 1972 prices, a minimum of 10% of the
investment cost; and
(iii) for other farmers, 15% of the investment cost.
(d) For the purpose of diversified lending, the terms "small farmer"
and "farmer" includes all beneficiaries of schemes other than
minor irrigation; for the purpose of determining the equivalent
of small farmers and farmers among such beneficiaries, the
definition of small farmer and the description of farmers set
out in sub-paragraph (II) hereof shall be adopted to mean "any
person primarily engaged in an activity other than minor irriga-
tion which provides a pre-development net return to family
resources not exceeding Rs 2,000" and "ranging from Rs 2,001 to
Rs 3,500", respectively; and "net return to family resources"
shall mean gross family income from the activity less costs
actually incurred.
(e) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's
repayment capacity, but not to exceed 15 years (including grace
periods where necessary);
(f) No loans would be granted for storage and marketing without
prior approval of IDA;
(III) General
(a) Lending banks would maintain separate accounts for small farmers;
(b) Security would be in accordance with arrangements between lending
banks and ARC;



SCHEDULE C
Page 4
(c) ARC would refinance only sound sub-projects which, on the
basis of careful study were considered to be financially
viable having a minimum financial rate of return of 15%
and were backed with satisfctory technical and
administrative management.
(d) ARC would forward all applications for refinance of
schemes having total investment costs of US$0.5 million
equivalent and over for diversified lending, together with
appraisal reports and all other relevant data, to IDA for
final approval.



SCIEDULE D
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Small Farmer Definition
1.        "Small Farmer" shall mean any farmer cultivating land providing an
annual predevelopment net return to family resources to such farmer and his
family not exceeding Rs 2,000, based on 1972 prices.
2.        For the purpose of determining said net return, the following
criteria shall apply:
(a) "land" shall include all land actually cultivated by
the farmer, notwithstanding the fact that ownership
of such land may vest in one or more persons;
(b) "net return to family resources" shall mean gross
family income from the land, less costs actually
incurred (including cash value of farmer's own inputs
including seed, fertilizer, hired human labor, hired
bullock labor, feed consumed by family bullocks, irrigation
charges, land revenue, interest on crop loan, and rent
on leased land).
(c) the amounts for the current year shall be arrived at by
applying the current price index of the All India
Agricultural Laborers Index 1/ for the State in which
the land is located to the amount set forth in para-
graph 1 hereto.
1/   Source:  "Agricultural Situation in India" published by the Directorate
of Economics and Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPCFATICN CREDIT PROJECT
IDA Projects Financed Through Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Credit   Effective   Closing   Project    IDA    Disbursed to
No.       Date        Date       Cost    Credit  February 28,1975
- US$ M- - - - - - -
AAGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Gujarat                  191         9,/70      3/75      67.0     35.0          34.6
Punjab                   203         9/70      12/75      40.0     27.5           2. 3
Andhra Pradesh           226         5,/71      6/75      45.0     24.4          18.6
Haryana                  249        11,/71      3/75      44.5     25.0          10.6
Tamil Nadu               250      1ll/71       12/76      62.3     35.0          25.0
Nysore                   278         9/72      10/75      70.4     40.0          14.5
Maharashtra              293         1/73      12/75      51.9     30.0          20.3
Madhya Pradesh           391        10/73      12/76      59.7     33.0           6.9
Uttar Pradesh            392        10/73      12/76      72.5     38.0           6.7
Bihar                    440       11/73       12/76      6o.o     32.0           3.3
Sub-total                                      573.3    319.9         142.8
MARKETS
Bihar                    294         6/72      12/78      23.3     14.0
Mysore                   378         9/73      12/79      12.0      8.o
Sub-total                                       35.3      22.0
PROCESSING
HP Apples                456         9/74      12/78      21.7     13.0
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT
Karnataka                482       10/74        9/82      63.7     33.0            _
Rajasthan/i              521          -           -       51.8     27.7             -
Madhya Pradesh /1        522          -           -       31.2     16.4             -
146.7     74.1            _
777.0    429.0         142.8
/1 Not yet effective.
March 31, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Groundwater and Minor Irrigation
Geology and Physiography
1.        India has an area of 328 million ha.  Physiographically, there
are three large regions: (a) the northern mountains; (b) the Indo-Gangetic
plains; and (c) the peninsula.
2.        The northern mountains region (Himalayan ranges) is a high rugged
area of intensely folded and faulted mountain chains of geologically recent
origin. The rocks are primarily sedimentary, with a core of young granitic
intrusions. Mountain-building forces are still active with frequent earth-
quakes of varying magnitude. Elevatioas exceed 7,000 m in places.
3.        The Indo-Gangetic plains were formed by a deep sag in the earth's
crust, probably contemporaneous with the Himalayan uplift, that has been
filled with alluvial sediments derived from the higher lands to the north
and, to a lesser extent, the lower hills to the south. Elevations are
generally less than 300 m.
4.        The peninsula, occupying most of the country in the south, is
an ancient stable plateau or shield developed on the underlying igneous
and metamorphic rocks. A large area of the western part of the plateau
has been covered with a thick series of horizontal lava beds (Deccan trap)
and some younger sedimentary rocks have been deposited along the narrow
coastal plains of both the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. Elevations
generally range between 200 and 1,000 m.
Climate
5.        The major climatic features are:  (a) the Himalayan mountains in
the north, a barrier against the cold air masses of Central Asia, giving
the country the elements of a tropical climate; and (b) the ocean on the
south, the source of the moisture-laden monsoon winds. Although climatic
and weather conditions are widely diverse throughout the country, the five
distinct regions with a fairly uniform broad pattern are:
(a) Northwest India - western Rajasthan, Punjab, and
adjacent areas;



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(b) North-central India - eastern Rajasthan, Gujarat,
Haryana, northern Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and
Bihar;
(c) Peninsular India - southern Madhya Pradesh and the
peninsula to the south;
(d) Eastern India - Orissa, West Bengal, Assam and
adjacent northeastern states; and
(e) Coastal plains - bordering the peninsula along the
ocean.
6.        The southwest monsoon begins at the end of May or early June and
continues until December. During this period the country receives most of
its rainfall, particularly June-September, when most areas receive 80%
or more of the total annual rainfall (Table 1). The distribution of annual
rainfall, which ranges from 200 to 300 mm in the western Rajasthan desert
to more than 5,000 mm along the Western Ghats of the peninsular and in the
hills of Assam, is shown on Map 11047. The duration of the monsoon is a
minimum in the northwest region and a maximum in the southern peninsular
region. For rainfed agriculture, the crucial months are July and August,
and the amount and distribution of rain in these two months largely deter-
mines the fate of kharif crops.
7.        In addition to definite seasonal distribution of rainfall, there
are frequently large monthly variations from normal from one year to the
next. Rainfall is most uncertain in Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan,
the same areas of lowest normal total annual rainfall.
8.        The average temperature range throughout the year is 100 to 15∞C
in the southern coastal areas, increasing to 25%C or more in the northern
inland. The coldest period throughout the country is in December-January
when mean maximums vary from 29C in parts of the peninsula to 18∞C in the
north and mean maximums from 24∞C in the extreme south to below 5∞C in the
north. During March to May there is a steady rise in temperature with the
highest values, exceeding 48∞C, occurring in North India in May (particu-
larly in the northwest desert areas). With the advent of the southwest
monsoon by early June there is a rapid fall in maximum temperatures in the
central areas. Generally temperatures are practically uniform over the
two-thirds of the country which gets good rainfall during the monsoon.
Temperatures generally begin to decline throughout the country by August.
9.        Evaporation rates closely follow the seasons, reaching a peak in
the summer months of April and May, particularly in the central areas where
evaporation is highest. With the beginning of moisture-laden monsoon winds
and heavy rainfall in June there is a marked fall in evaporation rates.
Total annual pan evaporation, in cm, is shown oa Map 11047.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Soils
10.       The four major soil groups are alluvial, black, red and laterite
soils. Of lesser importance are forest, desert and saline-alkaline soils.
Indian soils, like most tropical soils, are generally deficient in organic
matter and nitrogen. Phosphate deficiency is less prevalent and potash
deficiency is rare.
11.       Alluvial soils form the largest and most important group, occurring
principally in the valleys of the Indo-Gangetic and Brahmaputra river systems
as well as other river valleys and along coastal areas. Occasional features
of these soils is the occurrence of hardpan at certain levels in the soil
profile and the presence of lime concretions ("kankar"), particularly in the
Indo-Gangetic alluvium of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Delhi. The soils are
generally well suited for irrigation of crops.
12.       Black soils ("regur" or "cotton soils") occur chiefly in Andhra
Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Mysore.
These soils have formed from the weathering of basalts of the Deccan trap
and granites, gneisses, and schists of the peninsula.  As a group they are
fine-textured with 40% to 60% clay, plastic and sticky when wet, and very
hard when dry.  Upon drying they shrink and cracks may develop to the
depth of a meter or more.  Good subsurface drainage is a requirement in
irrigated areas to prevent development of salinity and waterlogging prob-
lems.
13.       Red soils, derived from the weathering of acidic igneous and
metamorphic rocks, occupy large areas of southern India (Tamil Nadu,
Mysore, Kerala, southeast Maharashtra, eastern Andhra Pradesh and Madhya
Pradesh) as well as some localities in Orissa, West Bengal and Uttar
Pradesh. The soils are typically friable, permeable, well drained, easily
managed and well adapted to irrigation.
14.       Laterite soils occur mostly in south India near the margins of
the peninsula. They are primarily a mixture of hydrated oxides of iron
and aluminum, low in organic matter and most plant nutrients, with good
drainage capacity.
Surface Water
15.       To assess available water resources, there are six major regions:
Indus basin, Ganges system, Brahmaputra system, East Coast rivers, West
Coast rivers and Rajasthan region. A summary of data on each region is
in Table 2, and the location of principal rivers is on Map 11047.
16.       Of the estimated total average runoff of 167.3 million ha meters,
it is estimated that 66.6 million ha meters (40% of the total) could be
utilized for irrigation. Most of this potential is within the Ganges
system, the East Coast rivers, and the Tapti and Narmada river basins of



ANNEX 2
Page 4
the West Coast region. In 1968/69 it was estimated that 20.5 million ha
meters of surface water was used to irrigate a gross area of 28 million ha.
17.       The annual flow pattern of rivers with sources in the Himalayas
is markedly different from those originating in the peninsular area. In
those with Himalayan sources, the dry weather flow is significantly in-
creased by water from melting snows and glaciers, and at no time is the
flow so reduced as in the peninsular rivers where heavy discharges occur
during the monsoons followed by very low discharge (base flow from ground
water inflow) during the rainless months. Variations in mean monthly
flows of peninsular rivers of the order of 1 to 300 are common.
Groundwater
18.       Occurrence.  Groundwater occurrence throughout India can be
generalized into five broad categories which relate to the geology and
physiography of the country (Map 11047): (1) areas of alluvial deposits
along major rivers and coastal zones; (2) areas of "hard rock" in the
peninsula; (3) consolidated sediments along the coastal areas; (4) thin
alluvium and wind-blown sands of the Rajasthan desert; and (5) mountainous
areas of the north and east.
19.       The alluvial aquifers are the most important category both from
the standpoint of present development as well as future potential. Water
is developed from the permeable silts, sands and occasional gravels within
the alluvium by means of shallow open (dug) wells and tubewells. Most of
the alluvial aquifers are in the Indo-Gangetic plain and Brahmaputra valley,
with minor additional areas along major river valleys and on the eastern
and western coasts of the peninsula. The total thickness of alluvium in
the Indo-Gangetic plain is probably as much as 2,000 to 3,000 m in places
but deep tubewells for groundwater development are seldom drilled below
depths of 300 to 500 m. The yield from typical installations is 150-200
m3/hour for deep tubewells, 25-50 m3/hour for shallow tubewells and up to
25 m3/hr for dug wells.
20.       The "hard rock" or "crystalline" area of groundwater occurrence
is also of great importance because such a large area of the country is
included (essentially all of the peninsula) and because much of the area
receives insufficient rainfall so that irrigation is essential to crop
production. The aquifers of the area are the upper weathered and jointed
zones of the underlying igneous and metamorphic rocks (granites, gneisses,
and schists). In the large area underlain by basalt flows (Deccan trap)
the water occurs along interflow zones as well as in the upper weathered
zone and joints or cracks in the rock. The depth of weathering varies,
being typically 5 to 15 m and occasionally as much as 25 to 30 m. Devel-
opment is usually with dug wells, some of which have been deepened with
small diameter bore holes to increase the yield (dug-cum-bore wells). In
many areas drilled bore wells, to depths of 35 to 50 m, will produce as
much watej per day as the open dug wells. Typical well yields are from
3 to 10 m /hour.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
21.       Consolidated sediments, such as sandstone, occur primarily along
the coastal margins of the peninsula and furnish groundwater to tubewells.
Typical wells are from 30 to 150 m deep with yields of 20 to 100 m3/hr.
22.       In the Rajasthan desert area of the northwest, consolidated rocks
are typically covered with thin deposits of wind-blown sand or occasional
alluvium. Because of the scanty and unreliable rainfall there is little
opportunity for extensive groundwater development in this area.
23.       The principal occurrence of groundwater in the mountainous areas
of the northern and eastern states is from small alluvial deposits along
stream valleys. Much of the bedrock is relatively unweathered which, in
combination with the steep topography, makes wells generally infeasible.
24.       Recharge.  The principal recharge to groundwater comes from in-
filtration of direct precipitation on an area, or from deep percolation
resulting from irrigation. In some areas seepage from unlined irrigation
canals is a major source of recharge. Lateral subsurface inflow from
adjacent areas can be significant in some alluvial terrains, particularly
along the southern foothills of the Himalayas. Rivers and streams are not
generally sources of recharge except immediately adjacent to the channels
during flood runoff. Exceptions to this would include rivers crossing
alluvial fans on the lower Himalayan slopes and the dissipation, by seep-
age, of the flow in ephemeral streams of the western desert areas.
25.       In the absence of reliable field observations, recharge to ground-
water has frequently been estimated by using empirical formulas or rule-of-
thumb values. Examples of these are:
(a)  Rp = 2 (R-15) 25 where Rp is the recharge from
rainfall in inches and R is the total average
annual rainfall in inches (Chaturvedi formula).
(b) Recharge from applied irrigation water is 20%
of the total application.
(c) Seepage loss from unlined irrigation canals is
6 cusecs (611 m3/hr) for each million square
feet (92,900 m2) of wetted surface.
26.       In 1968, during studies for the Fourth Five Year Plan, an updated
estimate of all-India groundwater recharge was prepared on an individual
state basis. Basic assumptions used in that estimate included:
(a) Groundwater recharge from infiltration of rainfall,
expressed as a percentage of total rainfall, would
vary according to surface rock types:



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Hard rock formations
and Deccan trap                      10%
Consolidated rocks
(sandstones)                       5-10%
River alluvium                       15-20%
Indo-Gangetic alluvium                20%
Coastal alluvium                     10-15%
Western Rajasthan dune sands            2%
Intermontane valleys                 15-20%
(b) Seepage from canals was assumed to be 1.15 million
m3/kilometer/year for main canals and .38 million
m3/kilometers/year for tributaries.
(c) The total recharge estimate thus obtained was then
reduced by 20% to 60% to allow for subsurface outflow
and evapotranspiration losses, the percentage used
for each state depending upon a judgment evaluation
of topographic, hydrologic and climatic factors.
The resulting estimate of annual recharge to groundwater, on an individual
state and total basis, is given in Table 3, together with a similar 1974
estimate by the CGWB. Both estimates indicate a total annual recharge of
about 27 million ha meters.
27.       All of the preceding estimates of recharge tend to be more quali-
tative than quantitative. The present need is for more precise evaluation
of recharge from all sources, based upon reliable and adequate field and
laboratory measurements. It is particularly important that such detailed
studies be made in the areas that are already intensively developed to
prevent such areas from becoming overdeveloped.
28.       Quality.  Groundwater quality is generally good throughout India,
suitable for irrigation and other uses, except for some areas along the
coast and a few limited interior locations. The principal coastal areas
with salt water in aquifers are in southern West Bengal, Orissa, Tamil
Nadu and Gujarat. Fairly extensive areas of saline groundwater are found
in the interior in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan with more minor occur-
rences at scattered localities in Mysore, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh.
Many of the interior occurrences are the result of high evaporation in
irrigated areas with inadequate drainage; in some cases the salinity is
concentrated in the shallow zones and fresh water is encountered at depth.
A recent (1972) study in Haryana by the Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Cor-
poration indicated that good quality groundwater was available from both



ANNEX 2
Page 7
shallow and deep aquifers over 40% of the area of the state (principally
along major river valleys and in areas irrigated by canals) and, from
shallow aquifers only, over an additional 15% of the area.
29.       Utilization.  Estimates of the amount of groundwater withdrawn
for irrigation in 1968/69 have been made on the basis of gross area irri-
gated, by states, and the average depth of water application. The esti-
mated total use was nearly 7.5 million ha meters on a gross area of 16
million ha (Table 3). A similar estimate, using a unit approach (numbers
of different types of wells and average withdrawal per well) instead of
an area approach, gave a slightly higher total withdrawal of about 8.1
million ha meters.
30.       The total estimated annual withdrawal, for the entire country,
amounts to about 30% of the total estimated annual recharge, ranging from
a negligible percentage in Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir,
Kerala, Orissa and West Bengal to more than 50% in Gujarat, Haryana,
Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Almost
all groundwater used is for irrigation. Industrial, domestic and live-
stock requirements are estimated to be less than 5% of total withdrawals.
The growth in net area irrigated from wells and other sources since
1950/51, and the distribution by states for 1969/70, is given in Table 4.
The Indo-Gangetic plain states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar,
and West Bengal comprise only 20% of the area of the country yet account
for more than one half of the groundwater used and the net area irrigated
from wells.
31.       Control.  India does not have, at present, any state or national
legislation which could prevent local over-exploitation. A model law was
drafted by GOI designated "The Groundwater (Control and Regulation) Bill"
and circulated in December 1970, to all state governments for their con-
sideration. The only state so far to introduce such a bill into its
legislature is Rajasthan. The model law would enable state governments to
designate areas where regulation of development was considered necessary
and to control, through a permit and license system, the construction of
wells and extraction of groundwater. Continued efforts should be made to
encourage early adoption of adequate control legislation in each state.
32.       Some degree of control of groundwater utilization and develop-
ment is becoming increasingly necessary in many localities to protect
water quality, to protect existing water users by preventing excessive
interference and lowering of water levels, and to prevent local develop-
ments from exceeding the available average replenishment which results
in "mining" of the water.  In the absence of adequate legislation, some
measure of control has been achieved in existing IDA credit projects by
requiring a minimum spacing between wells that are to be financed under
these projects. The degree of control achieved is often unsatisfactory,
however, because it does not apply to privately financed developments.
The stipulated minimum spacing between wells, moreover, is usually based



ANNEX 2
Page 8
on an empirical formula that cannot consider all of the local factors
involved with the result that the spacing requirement imposed may be too
lenient in some cases and too harsh in others.
33.       There is general agreement that overdevelopment and related
problems, principally concerning water quality, exist (or will soon
exist) in certain localities. It is difficult to define these localities
geographically since the hydrologic boundaries seldom coincide witlh poli-
tical subdivisions. Since there is no existing groundwater control legis-
lation, and it does not appear that there will be within the next several
years, it is recommended that certain districts within several states be
designated, for this project, as "Intensively Developed and/or Potential
Problem Areas". It is further recommended that no investments be made
for groundwater development in these particular districts until the appro-
priate State Groundwater Agency submits to ARC, for review and approval, a
detailed justification report demonstrating the feasibility of the proposed
developments.
34.       The special justification reports should include more detail than
has usually been developed in the past for such items as available recharge
(from all sources), the reliability of recharge, the present withdrawals,
historical and present water level fluctuations, water quality, well con-
struction considerations, etc. The use of empirical formulas or rule-of-
thumb methods would generally be unacceptable. Actual field and laboratory
measurements should be presented and some test drilling or test pumping (of
adequate duration) might be required.
35.       The 48 districts in 11 states recommended for such designation
as "Intensively Developed and/or Potential Problem Areas" are listed in
Schedule A and shown on Map 11048. In some of these districts listed,
the problem area or areas may occupy only a part of the entire district
and, upon submission of adequate justification, certain villages might be
excluded from the designation and as additional development takes place or
additional data become available, it may be necessary to add new areas to
the designation.
On-Going Projects
36.       ARC began refinancing minor irrigation projects shortly after
formation of the organization in 1963. As of June 30, 1973, a total of
553 minor irrigation schemes had been undertaken involving total financial
assistance of about Rs 4.1 billion of which about Rs 3.7 billion (90%) was
to be refinanced by ARC. Minor irrigation schemes represented over 70% of
total ARC commitments for all types of schemes to that date. Actual disburse-
ments amounted to Rs 1.7 billion which was about 65% of disbursements scheduled
to have been made as of that date. On January 31, 1974 in addition to
on-going schemes, ARC had under consideration 278 minor irrigation schemes
involving total financial assistance of about Rs 1.8 billion (nearly 80%
of the total assistance for all types of schemes under consideration).



ANNEX 2
Page 9
37.       Currently, there are IDA agricultural credit projects effective
in ten states; all but one project (Punjab) have a minor irrigation com-
ponent and in three states (Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar) the
projects are entirely for minor irrigation. An eleventh project (West
Bengal) has been negotiated.
Staff and Training
38.       Existing technical staff of ARC. GOI and states are adequate to
carry out their aspects of minor irrigation work proposed in this project.
Additions to existing staff are planned in all states, and will be neces-
sary in some cases (such as Assam and Kerala) if major lending programs
are to be initiated. Most existing staff capability throughout India has
been directed towards finding and developing groundwater, with emphasis
on geology and drilling. The primary need at this time is to increase
the attention given to quantitative evaluation and management of ground-
water resources, with emphasis on hydrology.
ARC
39.       The technical staff of ARC involved with minor irrigation schemes
is headed by a director and includes three deputy directors and one senior
analyst. A senior-level specialist in soil and water management joined the
staff in early 1974 and an additional two or three staff members (hydro-
geology) are to be added this year. One of the deputy directors is sta-
tioned in Calcutta, with responsibility for the eastern states, and the
remaining staff are at Bombay. It is important that the director of the
technical staff has an excellent background (both education and experience)
in groundwater evaluation and development as well as irrigation engineering.
In addition to regular ARC technical staff, some 20 consultants are avail-
able for special assignment on minor irrigation projects. These consult-
ants are generally senior government employees (either active or recently
retired) or university professors.
40.       The principal function of ARC staff is to review minor irrigation
schemes proposed by states both from the technical feasibility (availability
of water, proper design, etc.) and economic aspects (adequacy of cost esti-
mates, etc.). This function is properly and adequately exercised.
CGWB
41.       CGWB was established in 1970 by GOI to replace the Exploratory
Tubewells Organization which had been created in 1954 to investigate and
test the thick alluvial aquifers of the Indo-Gangetic plain. In 1972 the
groundwater wing of the Geological Survey of India was merged into CGWB to
establish a single organization in the central government concerned with
groundwater investigation and development.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
42.       In addition to conducting special investigations throughout the
country (including drilling and testing of wells), CGWB has the important
responsibility of assisting state groundwater organizations and coordi-
nating state programs. Experienced OGWB personnel are frequently assigned
to work with states in building up and training local staffs. CGWB's head-
quarters are near New Delhi, with 7 regional offices throughout the country.
The 1973/74 operating budget was Rs 42 million for the total current staff
of about 3,500, which includes professionals and subprofessionals (geolo-
gists, engineers, chemists, etc.), administrative personnel, and operators
for 55 drilling rigs.
States
43.       Almost all states have established organizations for conducting
hydrogeological investigations as well as units that provide custom serv-
ice in boring and deepening dug wells, and in drilling tubewells. Admin-
istratively these organizations may be under any one of a number of headings
such as the Departments of Agriculture, Minor Irrigation, Public Works, Ir-
rigation, Mines and Geology, etc. or Tubewell Corporations, Agro-Industry
Corporations, etc. Unfortunately in individual states these functions may
be divided administratively, and this often hampers fullest coordination of
groundwater activities. A tabulation of professional and sub-professional
staffing, by states, as of the 1972 Task Force report on groundwater re-
sources, is in Table 5.
44.       Each state groundwater organization has plans for increasing staff
and strengthening capability, and many organizations are implementing such
plans. States with particularly strong staff capability at present include
Mysore, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu. States particularly needing strengthen-
ing of capability include Assam, Bihar, and Kerala as well as the states
with less potential groundwater development such as Himachal Pradesh and
Jammu and Kashmir. All states, however, are considered capable of pre-
paring and analyzing schemes for this project although some may need some
assistance from CGWB while they are building staff capability. The magni-
tude and rate of future lending under the project, in the states with weaker
staffs, will depend upon the rate at which the staffs can be strengthened.
Training
45.       Since 1966 CGWB has given courses in groundwater and water well
techniques to senior-level professionals from state organizations and from
their own staff. Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan have also offered training
courses to members of their own staffs as well as to candidates from other
states.
46.       Future training programs of particular benefit to this project,
as well as to the entire country's program for water resource utilization,
should include;



ANNEX 2
Page t1
(a) continuation of the in-service training of intermediate
and senior-level professionals through such courses as
those offered by CGWB and Tamil Nadu;
(b) initiation of field short-course training sessions for
sub-professionals and field technicians, to be offered
in individual states or regional locations, stressing
such items as field measurement techniques, use of
equipment, and how these operations fit into the over-
all groundwater evaluation studies;
(c) provision for additional training in hydrology, such as
in the graduate school courses offered at the Indian
Institute of Technology at Bombay or the University of
Roorkee; and
(d) provision for overseas training, with emphasis on
groundwater hydrology and quantitative studies, for
a few senior-level professionals. These should include
staff of ARC at both Bombay and Calcutta, one or more
from CGWB, and possibly a few from state organizations.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
ItDIA
AGRI(J3LTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Rainfall Distribution by Seasons and Regions
btate               buodivision    --- Distribution of Normal Annual Rainfall    -- Iaimal
Winter    Summer      S.w.Monsoon  Post-Mbnsoon   Total
(Jan-Feb) (tr-M9Z)     (Jun-,%p)    (Oct-Dbc)
a   ----- - - - (mm ) - - - - - - - ---- (nri ) 
Andhra Pradesh      Coastal           20        70          560            340         990
Northern         10        70           780           110          970
Southern         10        70           390           190          660
Assam               NorthY            60       590       1,510            170       2,330
South2/          50       640         1,620            250       2,560
Bihar               Plateau           50       10Q        1,110            100       1,360
Plains           30        70         1, 040           80        1,220
Gujarat             Eastern                     10          840             40         890
Western          -          -           550             40         590
Haryana                              60         40          600             50          750
Himachal Pradesh        -            100       130        1,180            120       1,530
Jammu & Kashmir         -            100       180          360             50         690
Kerala                               40        480        1,660            540       2,720
Madbya Pradesh      Eastern           40        60        1,220             80       1,400
Western          20        30           960            60        1,070
Maharashtra         Eastern           20        40          970             80       1,110
Western          10        40           590            100         740
Coastal          -         40         2,220           130        2,390
Mysore              N.Interior        10        70          580            130          790
S.Interior       10       160           420           220          810
Coastal          -        160         2,950           230        3,340
Orissa                               40        120        1,200            190       1,550
Punjab                               60         50          490             40         640
Rajasthan           Eastern           10        20          630             40          700
Western          10        20           260             10         300
Tamil Nadu                           60        120          270            530         980
Uttar Pradesh       Eastern           40        40          960             70       1,110
Western          60        40           900            50        1,050
West Bengal         Sub-Himalayan    30        410        2,190            170       2 800
Plains           40       180        1,130            160        1,510
1/ Includea Arunachal Pradesh
2/ Includes Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura
April 10, 1974



ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CCRPCRATION CREDIT PROJECT
Surface Water Resources - Estimated Runoff
Average                 Estimated
Major River                         Catchment  Annual        Mean       Annual
Region            Basins            States            Area    Rainfall  Temerature  Runoff
(M ha)     (mm)        (O C)      (M ha m)
Indus basin   Ravi            Jamu & Kashmir         35.4         560       12.6         7.9
Beas           Punjab
Sutlej         Haryana
Himachal Pradesh
Ganges system Ganges          Uttar Pradesh           97.6      1,110       16.8        49.0
Yamuna         Haryana
Chambal        Rajasthan
Chagara        Madhya Pradesh
Candak         Bihar
Kosi           West Bengal
Brahmaputra   Brahmaputra    Arunachal Pradesh       50.6       1,220        8.2        38.1
system       Subansiri       Assam
Yanas          Nagaland
Teesta         Meghal-aya
West Bengal
East Coast    Cauvery         Madhya Pradesh        121.0       1,090       26.1        41,2
rivers       Krishna         Bihar
Godavari       West Bengal
Mahanadi        Orissa
Subarnarekha   Andhra Pradesh
Damodar        Maharashtra
Mysore
Tamil Nadu
West Coast    Tapti           Gujarat                 49.2      1,220       25.5         31.1
rivers       Narmada         Maharashtra
Mahi           Mysore
Sabarmati      Kerala
Rajasthan                     Rajasthan               16.8        290       26.2           -
Total            370.6          -          -        167.3
August 23, 1974



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Eotimated Groundwater Availability and Utilization
(M ha m)
State           -------- 1968/69 Estimate-/--------                                               97------------  ---------- ---  1973/74 Eatinatei/-------
Annual Draf;./ Annual Recharge   Utilization   Annual Draft    Annual Recharge   Utilization
Andhra Pradesh               0.43               2.12            20            0.67             2.10            32
Assam 4/                      -                 2.06            -             0.03             1.48             2
Bihar                        0.35              2.70             13            0.62             2.59            24
Gujarat                      0.69               1.26            55            0.84             1.24            68
Haryana                      0.29               0.43            67            0.47             0.74            64
Himachal Pradesh               -                0.11            -              _               0.06
Jammu-Kashmir                 -                 0.49            -             0.01             0.25             4
Kerala                       0.01               0.67             1            0.01             0.62             2
Madbya Pradesh               0.38               3.29            12            0.49             3.09            16
Maharashtra                  0.69               1.55            45            0.76             1.48            51
Mysore                       0.24               1.23            20            0.30             1.24            24
Orissa                       0.o2             ,1.97              1            0.06             1.48             4
Punjab                       0.59               0.85            69            0.73             1.11            66
Rajasthen        -           0.65               0.42           155            0.68             0.86            79
Tamil Nadu                   0.87               1.42            61            0.87             1.48            59
Uttar Pradesh                2.22               4.38            51            2.98             5.56            54
West Bengal                  0.01              1.99              1            0.15            1.98              8
TOTAL                       7.44              26,94            28            9.67            27.36            35
1  Report of the Task Force on Groundi0t;T5  kiesources, Planning Commission, GOI, April 1972.
2   Central Ground Wkt.r Board,, G0I, February 1974 (unpublished).
3/ For irrigation use; an additional4%-5% estimated for industrial, dcmestic, and livestock uses.
4/ Includes adjacent areas of Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura.
April 16, 1974



ANNEX 2
Table 4
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATICQ  CREDIT PROJECT
Net Area Irrigated by Sources (1969/70)
(thousands ha)
Sbtate                    Canals    Tanks       Wells       Others      Total
Andhra Pradesh            1,488      1,071        502        128        3,189
Assam*                      362          2         -         339           703
Bihar                       815        187        490        787        2,279
Gujarat                      196        28        917          9        1,150
Haryana                     950         17        437          4        1,408
Himachal Pradesh              -         -           3         91           94
Jamnu and Kashmir           272         -           1          6          279
Kerala                      204          72         5        142           423
Madhya Pradesh              669        175        518         69         1,431
Maharashtra                 312        225        821         73         1,431
Mysore                      398        373        260        113        1,144
Orissa                      235        521        40         231         1,027
Punjab                    1,306         -      l, 524          6         2,836
Rajasthan                    753       198    l,087           21        2,059
Tamil Nadu                   906       879        691         31        2,507
Uttar Pradesh             2,423        360      3,792        244        6,819
West Bengal                 941        334         16        187        1,478
Union  Territories            26         6         42          9           83
All India (1969/70)  12,256       4,448    11,146    2,490          30,340
(1968/69)  11,894      3,956    10,813    2,362          29,025
(1965/60)  10,947      4,270      8,653    2,473         26,343
(1960/61)  10,370      4,561      7,290    2,440         24,(61
(1955/56)   9,385      4,423     6,739    2,211          22,758
(1950/51)   8,295      3,613      5,978    2,967         20,853
* Includes other, north eastern states.
April 16, 1974



ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDIA
AGRIEULTURAL REFINANCE CCRPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
State Groundwater Organization Staffing l/
btate                  Groundwater -InvestMation            Drilling and Development
Professional  u-rofessionaal         Professional  Sub-Professional
Andhra Pradesh            45             15                     36              221
Assam                      8              8                      9                8
Bihar                      4             10                     82              180
Gujarat                   13             12                    111               90
Haryana                   13             59                     64              240
Himachal Pradesh           2              8                      1                4
Jammu and Kashmir          5             16                       _              _
Kerala                     7              6                      6                8
Madhya Pradesh            21             53                     58              220
Maharashtra               40             29                     53              180
I9ysore                   52             11                      4               47
Orissa                    18             37                      2                6
Punjab                    27             77                     10               64
Rajasthan                 60            107                     27              247
Tamil Nadu               57             144                     34               66
Uttar Pradesh             27             21                    277            1,537
West Bengal               21             25                     23               25
Total        420             638                    797           3,145
1 / Data from Report of Task Force on Groundwater Resources,
GOI, April 1972
April 16, 1974



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Cooperative Banks, Cooperative Land Development Banks
and Commercial Banks
I. Cooperative Banks
Background
1.        The agricultural cooperative system in India has been operating
for several decades but its performance, especially at the primary level,
nas in general been unsatisfactory.  Many primary cooperatives have in-
curred excessively high loan arrears and bad debts, and their financial
operations have not been viable or self sustaining, to such an extent that
many would cease operations without continued financial assistance. Pro-
bably the most important single reason for this weakness is the lack of
qualified and competent management. Most of the existing primary cooperative
societies are very small in membership, financial resources and volume of
business, and tend to be engaged in single purpose activities, viz. credit,
processing, marketing, etc. In the case of credit, these societies are
involved in either short or medium-term lending. because they are so
small most societies cannot afford to pay for qualified and competent manage-
ment nor would it be warranted in many cases in view of the small volume of
business involved.
2.        A major criticism of the cooperative system, particularly the
credit societies, is that their activities benefit mainly the larger farm-
ers, though small farmers comprise the majority.
3.         Farmers have often been unable to reap the full benefit from
their effort (investments) to increase output because of the lack of input
supply, processing and marketing facilities as well as other supporting
services; where institutions or agencies for these exist, effective coor-
dination amongst them has been absent.  Effective coordination between the
two types of credit societies would be essential to ensure that farmers are
provided with production credit and, in the time needed, to fully comple-
ment the investment undertaken with funds from long-term credit societies.
4.         Cooperatives are constituted under state law, and within each
state there is a three-tiered cooperative structure; primary societies at
village level, district central cooperative banks at district level, and
state cooperatives at state level.



ANALX 3
Page 2
Primary Cooperative Societies (PCS)
5.         The main functions of a PCS are the provision of short- and medium-
term credit, supply of agricultural and otner production requirements and
marketing of agricultural produce.  As at the end of June 1972, tnere were
about 157,800 PCS; they covered nearly 80% of the villages in the country
and had a total membership of 32 million. However, on that date nearly
22,000 PCS (14% of the total) were dormant awaiting final action eitner
by revitalization or by liquidation. Only about 53,400 nave full-time
paici secretaries, and management is generally very poor. One of the most
disquieting features impeding the growth of credit is tne deteriorating
position of recoveries in almost all states though the degree of default
varies from state to state (Table 1)
District Central Cooperative Banks (DCCB)
6.        This second tier coordinates all cooperative credit activity within
the district, receives and distributes funds for all PCS and supervises their
lending activities. PCS are members of DCCB and eacn is allotted a credit
ceiling on the basis of membership, ,hare capital and overdue position. PCS
must deposit an amount equivalent to 10% of their intended borrowings as
share capital in DCCB. Individuals may also become members and may borrow
according to their 10% sihare capital contribution. To carry out its func-
tions each DCCB generally has a number of branch offices in the district and
a cadre of credit inspectors. Calibre of staff and management varies con-
siderably but supervision is frequently jeopardized by inefficient operating
procedures.
State Cooperative banks (SCB)
7.        At state level the SCB is the main pivot around which all activi-
ties on cooperative lines rotate. It also controls and regulates DCCB and
PCB within the state. Members of SCB are DCCB and the state government.
SCB gives short- and medium-term loans to DCCB to finance farmers tuirough
their member PCS.  Credit ceilings for DCCB are determined on the basis
of membership, share capital and overdue position. A SCB serves as a link
between the money market and the cooperative banking structure; it aggre-
gates the financial requirements of DCCB and receives such funds on its
account. Although a SCB is expected to be tne lender of last' resort for
provision of cooperative credit, it is, in fact, the major source of bor-
rowings by cooperatives. Calibre of maniagement at SCB level is generally
good.
Rescheduling of Cooperative Overdues
8.        Lending activities may be curtailed by heavy overdues caused by
natural calamities such as drought amd flood. In an attempt to overcome
this problem, RBI established an Agricultural Stabilization Fund in 1956
to wuich it annually has contributed amounts ranging from Rs 10 million



ANNEX 3
Page 3
to Rs 80 million. This Fund is used to reschedule short-term agricultural
loans to eligible SCB whicn have established similar funds at SCB and DCCB
levels.
II. Land Development Banks (LDB)
9.        The long-term cooperative credit structure is entirely independ-
ent of that for short- and medium-term credit. State land development banks
(SLDB) and primary land development banks (PLDB) make up the two tiers of
this structure, though in a few states there is a unitary system with a
network of branches. 1/
10.       PLDB raise funds from share capital and deposits, but the most
important source is borrowing from tne SLDB to which they are affiliated.
Funds for SLDB come from share capital and deposits of members, loans and
grants from state governments and sale of debentures. Ordinary debentures
(sanctioned by RBI) and special debentures (purchased by ARC) are issued
mainly for specific schemes sucn as the financing of tubewells and minor
irrigation.
11.       Loans from PLDB are used to finance fixed assets, land improve-
ments or durable chattels such as tractors, and are secured against first
mortgages of unencumbered landed assets. These loans are repayable in D
to 20 years by fixed instalments. In appraising applications, considera-
tion is given to technical and financial viability of proposals, repayment
capacity and cropping patterns. PLDB committees approve loans using lend-
ing criteria established at SLDB level.
12.       Overall the operations of LDB have declined over tne five years
ending 1972/73. Total lending declined in real terms while loans made eacn
year have been almost entirely financed by an equal increase in borrowings.
The rising high level of overdues, particularly at PLDB level, is causing
concern, and has restricted their lending activities because of RBI and ARC
sanctions. 2/ In recent IDA projects, ARC only lends to SLDB where overdues
are kept below 25%, if necessary by injection of redeemable equity capital
by state governments. The continuing support of state governments is also
essential if LDB are to improve their present overdues position (Table 2).
13.       Generally, LDB suffer from poor operational efficiency, inade-
quate managerial competence and heavy overdues. The present system of
seconding civil servants to senior positions in SLDB militates against
efficiency as many such officers, while able administrators, lack the
necessary banking experience to run such a bank effectively. Frequent
1/   These states are Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh.
2/   Provisional overdue figures for 1973/74 show an improvement over
1972/73.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
staff changes which occur lead to a lack of management continuity, with
its consequent adverse effect on efficiency and staff morale. SLDB should
appoint experienced staff at all levels as direct employees.
14.       Arising from the general decline in LDB performance, there is an
urgent need for intensified training programs to improve tne efficiency of
LDB staff at all levels and this is discussed in detail in Annex 6.
15.       Since the development of the cooperative movement, farmers nave
had to obtain long-term loans from LDB and seasonal loans, short- and
medium-term, through the state cooperative banking structure, This has
presented problems for farmers; ideally they should be able to obtain
seasonal and long-term credit from the same organization. As this would
require a merger of the two systems, a study of the possibilities and
problems of such a merger is required.
The Role of Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
16.       RBI has the main responsibility for developing the cooperative
banking structure over which it has statutory control.  It has a special
Agricultural Credit Department, whose functions are to: (a) study all
questions of agricultural credit and be available for consultation by
central government, state government, SCB and other banking organiza-
tions; and (b) coordinate RBI's agricultural credit operations and its
relations with SCB and any other bank engaged in the business of agri-
cultural credit. RBI conducts inspections of all cooperative banks,
gives directions as to the purpose for which advances are to be made,
authorizes the opening of new branches and controls the raising of funds
from the issue of ordinary debentures.
III. Commercial Banks (CB)
17.       Direct financing of agriculture by CB is a recent development.
Serious efforts began primarily after the nationalization of the major
banks in 1969. There was a snarp increase in direct advances by CB to
agriculture in the first year after nationalization. Sutbsequently, how-
ever, the rate of increase slowed down due to operational problems caused
uainly Dy indiscriminate and scattered lending over a wide area, inadequate
recoveries, lack of experience in agricultural finance and insufficiency
of trained staff.
18.       CB also faced difficulties as they have not been treated equally
witih cooperatives in direct lending for agriculture in the matter of right
of recovery, exemption from stamp duty, registration fees, etc. Tnese con-
straints were identified by the "Expert Group on State Enactments naving



ANNEX 3
Page 5
a bearing on commercial banks' lending to Agriculture" (Talwar Committee)1/
and the recommendations of the Committee (to give CB the same rights as LDB)
have yet to be implemented in many of the states.
19.       Generally, states with weak cooperative credit structures have
also failed to attract adequate loans from CB.
20.       During the Fifth 5-Year Plan it is intended that CB should open
more rural branches in states where their investment has been low during
the Fourth Plan. Stress will be laid on village adoption (para 22) in
areas where the effect of CB agricultural finance has been comparatively
weak. CB would also require to transform their attitudes so as to look
after the special needs of small and marginal farmers. Specific measures
for recruitment and training of personnel to achieve this end would be
planned adequately in advance.
21.       Apart from the administrative and legislative measures that nave
been recommended by the Talwar Committee for adoption by state governments,
more vigorous measures need to be initiated by state governments to ration-
alize some of the laws on alienation of land in favor of financing agencies,
maintain up to date land records and introduce agricultural holding credit
cards for all individual farmers. These measures are necessary to ensure
that CB can achieve their lending targets proposed in the Fifth Plan.
Village Adoption Scheme
22.       In accordance witn guidelines provided by RBI, the State Bank
of India Group has adopted over 2,500 villages for intensive financing of
agriculture. This Group has tried to establish closer contacts with some
villages, thus placing it in a better position to formulate area develop-
ment programs for capital investments in agriculture. Unfortunately, oper-
ating procedures and security requirements remain unchanged and, as a re-
sult, only a small proportion of farmers in an adopted village can avail
themselves of credit.
Agricultural Development Branches
23.       The State Bank of India Group has also launched a new strategy
in agricultural lending laying emphasis on intensification of the area
approach. About ten centers are to be taken up by the bank in each state
in which comprehensive credit facilities are to be expended through spe-
cially set up Agricultural Development branches (ADN). The Group hias
identified 158 centers and 110 ADB have already been established; of
these, 67 are in less developed districts. Their loan operations cover
minor irrigation, land improvement and seasonal requirements with emphasis
on use of modern technology by borrower farmers.
1/   In September 1969, the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India appointed
an Expert Group to revier legislation impinging upon commercial banks
lending for agricultural purposes. The final report of the Group was
issued in 1971, and is commonly known as the Talwar Report.



AN'AEX 3
Page 6
Commercial Bank Financing of Primary Cooperative Societies
24.       Under this scheme, introduced in 1970/71, primary societies are
ceded to CB which provide credit in lieu of that otherwise provided by
DCCB. It was expected that the linkage would galvanize dormant societies,
nelp members to minimize their dependence on local moneylenders and enable
societies to develop sound systems for disbursement of loans, supervision
of the use of credit and recovery of funds. Although more than 2,500
societies have been ceded to CB under this scheme, fewer than 60% nave
actually been financed. For those that have been financed, overdues and
operating costs have been very high.
Guarantees for Agricultural Loans
25.       The Credit Guarantee Corporation of India, set up as a subsidiary
of RBI, provides guarantee cover to CB for all types of agricultural advances,
the cover extending to 75% of the outstanding balances, or the prescribed
maximum limit which ranges from Rs 2,500 to Rs 37,500 for various categories
of development. No credit institutions invoked the guarantee until Decem-
ber 31, 1972. During the first half of 1973, 5 banks submitted claims in
respect of 59 borrowers, of which claims in respect of 2 borrowers were paid
as at June 30, 1973, and the remaining 57 were under examination.
Lead bank Scheme
26.       To promote banking development in backward areas, a scheme was
introduced in 1969 by designating one CB to be tne "Lead Sank" for each
of the 337 districts in India. Under this scheme the designated bank is
primarily responsible in the district for surveying the potential for
banking development, branch extension and credit expansion. It is ex-
pected to act as a consortium leader to bring about a coordination of
cooperative, commercial banking and other financial institutions.
27.       The lead banks made detailed district surveys but these posed a
major problem. To be successful, such surveys require an organization well
versed in modern techniques of designing techno-economic surveys, carrying
out field work, and analyzing and interpreting data. Very few banks in India
are so equipped, and the quality of survey reports conducted by lead banks
has varied considerably.



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
State Cooperative Banks Summary of Overdues 1969-70 and 1970-71
(Rs M)
1969-70                                                                 1970-71
Loans out-                            % of overdues                    Loans out-                                % of overdues
State                standing       Demand    Overdues    to demand                         standing         Demand      Overdues      to demand
Andhra Pradesh                  393.8         402.4       134.9           33                           419.7          425.2         155.5           37
Assam                            75.1          65.2    . 57.0             87                            89.3            84.4         69.1           82
Bihar                           189.1         207.9       114.3           54                           229.8           228.5        145.2           64
Gujarat                         931.6         895.7       131.8           14                          1061.2           866.3        207.3           24
Haryana                         178.8         199.4        56.3           28                            191.6          220.8         70.4           32
Himachal Pradesh                 10.0          10.6         2.2           20                             13.5           12.5          2.5           20
Jammu & Kashmir                  26.2          25.2        10.1           40                             35.4           20.0         11.8           59
Kerala                          278.9         189.5        44.2           23                            338.8          243.1         71.1           29
Madhya Pradesh                  711.1         524.3       219.6           42                            808.8          703.2        277.6            40
Maharashtra                    1551.9        1276.4       467.8           36                           1784.6         1329.5        490.0            37
Mysore                          641.0         469.6       173.9           37                            652.8          486.9        184.1            38
Orissa                          159.7         160.3        73.5           45                            152.6          159.5         73.1            46
Punjab                          488.7         736.5       178.8           24                            472.7          838.4        278.5            33
Rajasthan                       224.5         206.7        86.2           42                            249.3          255.9         108.9           43
Tamil Nadu                      644.6         491.4        99.5            20                           672.6          603.2          96.4           16
Uttar Pradesh                   712.0         706.8       218.5            31                           770.4          848.3         375.3           44
West Bengal                     180.9         162.2        83.7            51                           190.8           178.6        125.0           70
Total      7397.9        6730.1     2152.3            32                          8133.9          7504.3       2741.8            37
July 31, 1974



ANNEX 3
Table 2
fIDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
State Land Development Banks and Primary Societies
Summary of Overdues:I (1969/70-1972/73
69/70    70/71    71/7Z2    72/731/
Andhra Pradesh    SLDB                          1.9      1.1       7.5     36.7
Primaries                    5.3     12.8      11.2     19.6
kos.am             STIDT                       66.7      50.0     60.0      71.4
Primazies                   66.7     60.0      66.7     76.3
Bihar                                          32.1     31.4      39.1     42.2
Gujarat                                        47.7      5.3      25.4     57.1
Haryana           SLDB                         Nil      Nil       Nil      Nil
Primaries                   Nil      Nil         .4       1.10
Himachal Pradesh                               46.1     50.0      68.o     71.1
Jawmu-Kashmir                                  11.1     12.5      27.3     27.6
Kerala            SLDB                         20.2     42.6      26.6     27.5
Primaries                   36.o     37.3      33.3      34.4
Madhya Pradesh    SLDB                         37.8     42.3      37.2     20.6
Primaries                   36.3     38.3      48.7     38.3
Haharashtra        SLDB                        12.9     49.1      32.1     83.3
Primaries                   30.3     53.5      39.2     N/A 3'
Hysore            SLDB                         30.3     36.o      27.7     25.6
Primaries                   48.1     47.7      43.0     42.0
orissa            SLDB                          5.0     13.0      24.1     42.2
Primaries                   16.0     45.7      54.7     48.9
Punjab             SLDB                        Nil      Nil       Nil      N/A 3/
Primaries                     .3      3.7       2.7     10.8
Rajasthan          SLDB                         4.2     14.9      32.4      47.9
Primaries                   30.8     36.2      47.4      47.9
Tamil Nadu         SLDB                         1.5       2.6      2.2       5.7
PriAaries                   14.8     17.6      18.8     19.1
Uttar Pradesh                                  14.6     18.4      12.7      25.7
West Bengal       SLDB                         21.4     32.7      32.8      28 8
Primaries                   50.0     55.7      64.0     N/i -
1/ Expressed as a percentage of demand (principal and interest falling due
during the year plus overdues from previous years.
2/ Estimated.
3/ Not available.
May 31, 1974



ANNEX 4
Page  1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
Background
1.        The first comprehensive investigation of rural credit in India
was the All-India Credit Survey (1951-52), which revealed that institutional
credit was inadequate particularly for term finance for investment in agri-
culture. It advocated a broader approach for LDB which were the existing
term lending institutions so that they could extend their operations to
productive schemes especially in areas which were shortly to be brought
under irrigation.
2.        RBI was only able to provide assistance to long-term agricultural
projects in the form of purchase of debentures floated by SLDB; provide
assistance to state governments to enable them to contribute to the share
capital of cooperative institutions; and give medium-term loans to SCB.
The void in the long-term structure for agriculture remained, and to fill
it RBI and GOI decided to set up a special institutional agency (ARC).
Agricultural Refinance Corporation Act, 1963
3.        The Agricultural Refinance Corporation Act, 1963, received assent
of the President on MIarch 24, 1963, and came into force with effect from
Pay 1, 1963. ARC started functioning on July 1, 1963.
4.        The Act provides for the scope of ARC's activities, the principles
guiding its activities, and organizational matters.  The main provisions are
brought out in the text below.  Several amendments, some of a routine nature,
aimed at strengthening the finances of ARC and equipping it adequately for
expediting its business, are under consideration. The Act was recently
amended to enable ARC to dispense with security or guarantee for reasons
to be recorded by it in writing in each case.
Functions
v.        The main objective of ARC is to help in augmenting tile resources
available for provision of medium-term and long-term finance for agricul-
ture.  It is primarily a refinancing agency providing long-term accommoda-
tion to agricultural development projects which cannot be financed by exist-
ing credit agencies, i.e. SLDB, SCB and CB, because of either the large
outlay involved or because the projects cannot be brought within Cte normal



ANNEX 4
Page 2
rules of business under which the credit agencies operate. ARC also
stimulates the interest of government authorities and credit agencies in
agricultural development schemes and helps them in the effective formulation
and implementation of schemes.
6.         The main purposes for which ARC can refinance are:  (a) planned
schemes of minor irrigation works covering compact areas; (b) reclamation
and preparation of land for irrigation under the command of surface irri-
gation projects; (c) forestry development; (d) soil conservation and mech-
anization of farming; (e) raising of plantation crops such as tea, coffee,
rubber, cashewnut, coconut, cardaman and arecanut; (f) construction of
warenouses; and (g) development of animal husbandry, dairy farming, fish-
eries and poultry farming.
Share Capital and Resources
7.        ARC's authorized share capital is Rs 250 million of which Rs 150
million was issued and paid up on June 30, 1974. According to the ARC Act,
share subscriptions are: (a) RBI at least 50%; (b) SLDB and SCB 30%; and
(c) scheduled banks, the Life Insurance Corporation, insurance and investment
companies not more than 20%. If any shares referred to in (b) and (c) remained
unallotted RBI has to take them up. Current share holdings are: (a) RBI
8,687 (57.9%), (b) SLDB and SCB 3,761 (25.1%), and (c) others 2,552 (17.0X).
8.        ARC initially made a Rs 50 million share issue for which GOI
guaranteed an annual dividend of 4.25%.  During 1971 ARC increased its share
capital to Rs 100 million and in 1973 to Rs 150 million. On these further
snares GOI guaranteed a dividend of 4.5%.
9.         Apart from share capital, ARC can raise funds from the following
sources: (a) borrowings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI; (b)
issue and sale of debentures and bonds guaranteed by GOI; (c) borrowings
from RBI for periods not exceeding 18 months; (d) deposits from GOI, state
governments and local authorities for periods not less than 12 months. The
maximum borrowing is, however, currently limited to 20 times its paid up
capital and reserves. So that ARC may further increase its resources there
is provision under the ARC Act for RBI to deposit with ARC for 15 years,
interest free, the dividend accruing on its shares.
10.       As on June 30, 1974, ARC's total borrowings were Rs 3.0 billion
(GOI Rs 1.6 billion, RBI Rs .7 bil:Lion, bonds and debentures Rs .7 billion).
borrowings from GOI have been on various terms: interest rates ranging from
4.75% to 6.25% per annum, and repayments from 9 to 15 years. Interest rates
payable by ARC on other borrowings are variable. The six market issues of
bonds are at an annual interest rate of 5.75%. The previous short-term bor-
rowings from RBI at bank rate (6%) have been replaced by borrowings from the
Aational Agricultural Credit (LTO) Fund at 4.25%. Average borrowings and
lending rates of ARC for the years 1963/64 to 1972/73 are shown in Table 1,
and an analysis of ARC interest rate structure is shown in Table 2.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
The Board of ARC
11.       ARC's Board has nine members:  tle Chairman, wno is a Deputy
Governor of RBI and nominated by it; one other nominated by RBI; three
nominated by GOI; one elected by SLDB shareholders; one elected by SCB share-
holders; one elected by the Life Insurance Corporation and scheduled banks,
etc. that are shareholders; and a managing director appointed by RBI after
consultation with the Board.  The present Board Members are listed in Table 3.
lanagement
12.       The managing director, who is tihe chief executive, is responsible
for day to day activities; in this he is assisted Dy tnree senior directors
witn considerable experience in banking and agricultural credit. Tne Board
has autnorized the managing director to approve refinance for scnemes up to
a limit of Rs 5 million per scheme.
Staff
13.       Witii the exception of a few technical experts who are on contract
or seconded from state authorites, all members of tne staff are seconded
from RBI. The disadvantage of this system is that there is no certain con-
tinuity of staff, as they can be transferred back to RBI at any time but,
in practice, this is not a frequent occurrence. The advantages of the close
relationship with RBI greatly outweigh this disadvantage; recruitment is no
problem; staff are transferred from RBI when required and no staff member
is transferred until he has received banking training through a RBI train-
ing school; there is a certain amount of prestige in being associated witn
RBI; information is more readily provided by CB and state authorities, and
ARC normally has no problem borrowing in the open market.
14.       ARC had a professional staff of 233 as at December 31, 1973, of
whom about 145 were based at Head Office. Until early 1970 it did not employ
any specialists, instead relying on a panel of consultants for tecinical
advice for appraisal and supervision work. To supplement consultants'
advice ARC has established technical units at dead Office, Calcutta and
Lucknow and a new unit will eventually be opened in the south to cover the
southern states. Thlese units comprise experts in plantations, horticulture,
fisheries and minor irrigation, and ARC is also recruiting experts in soil
conservation, animal husbandry and poultry. Although the general quality of
ARC staff is satisfactory ARC recognizes the need to build up its staff at
all levels and has prepared staff projection estimates to cover the five
years to 1978 (Table 4).
Organization
15.       Overall organization of ARC is shown in Table 4.  The dead Office
is in Bombay and there are 15 Regional Offices covering all the states
(Alimedabad, Bangalore, Bhopal, Bhubaneswa, Bombay, Calcutta, Chandigarh,
Gauhati, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Lucknow, Madras, New Delhi, Patna, and Trivan-
drum (Map Jo. 11048)).



ANiNEX 4
Page 4
16.       Head office consists of ten Departments:  Projects Division I,
Projects Division II, Finance, Administration, Board Matters, Planning and
Development, Technical Division, Evaluation Cell, Training Division and
Bombay Regional Unit. (The Training Division is still part of the Planning
and Development Departments but it will shortly become a separtate Department).
17.       Projects Divisions I and II are hieaded by two senior directors.
Operations in the states are divided between them witn sub-divisions headed
by directors. Aormally, a director does not handle more tLan 4 major states,
each thereby enabling greater concentration on schemes within them. The
normal procedure of each Projects Division following receipt of a proposal
is to: (a) scrutinize it; (b) carry out economic and financial appraisals;
(c) prepare a draft memorandum to tne board, or sanction note to the managing
director (for schemes costing less than Rs 5 million); and (d) issue sanction
letters and debenture proposals. Whenever technical studies are required as
for schemes for land development, fisheries and dairy farming, the terms of
reference are obtained from the Technical Director and tne selection of the
technical experts is from the approved panel (para 20). After the technical
reports are received the opinion of the technical director is obtained before
preparing the case papers for sanction. Follow up after sanction is to as-
certain the progress of disbursements and to deal with any proposals for re-
phasing.
18.       Finance, Administration and Board Matters are all under the charge-
of one senior director. The large increase in the operations of ARC, fore-
cast in the Fifth Year Plan, will oe a heavy responsibility and will require
careful planning, mobilization of resources and management of funds. Tnis
will involve anticipation of fund requirements over a long period, and ar-
rangements for borrowings from: GOI, including IDA funds, from RBI (includ-
ing the National Agricultural Credit Fund); from tne open market by issue
of oonds; and by raising additional snare capital. Tne Finance Department
is also responsible for the proper maintenance of accounts, custody of
investments in special debentures and for the annual presentation of tne
profit and loss accounts and balance sneets. The doard A1atters Department
deals with board proceedings including circulation of agenda and notes,
preparation of minutes and arranging meetings. The Administration Depart-
ment is responsible for all administrative matters, and tne opening of re-
gional offices and teciinical consultancy units (para 25).
19.       A director is in charge of the Planning and Development Department,
wiiCic operates directly under the supervision of the managing director. Lhe
department provides management information on: systems; performance budget-
ing; monthly progress reports; annual reports; IDA matters otner than ac-
counts; and replies to Parliamentary Questions. It is also responsible for
program planning, methods of appraisal, surveys and studies.



AkNEX 4
Page 5
20.       The Technical Department has tecnnical staff covering plantations
and horticulture, fisheries and minor irrigation.  Two established posts
which have still to be filled will cover soil conservation and animal nus-
bandry. ARC nas established a national panel of experts, approved by GOI,
from the technical staff of state governments and private enterprise, and
this panel is used extensively to support the activities of its Technical
Department.
21.       The Evaluation Cell and the Training Division have only recently
been formed and are not yet operational, although directors in charge of
each department nave been nominated.  The main objective of the Evaluation
Cell will be to monitor on-going projects, including IDA schemes, while the
main function of the Training Division will be to ensure that the staff of
LDB are given adequate training, by organizing and supervising the training
programs.
22.       Regional Offices assist CB, SLDB, and state governments to formulate
agricultural development projects for financing, clarify ARC's policies and
procedures, undertake pre-appraisal of projects and supervise general execu-
tion of ARC financed projects.
Lending Policies
23.       The Act provides that ARC shall be guided by such directions in
matters of policy involving public interest as GOI may, after consulting
RBI, give in writing. ARC can extend financial assistance only to SLDB,
SCB, and scheduled CB. In exceptional cases, and with R13I approval, it can
also lend to a PCS.
24.       ARC will refinance agricultural development schemes which are
technically feasible, financially justified and within a reasonably compact
area for ease of loan evaluation and supervision. Tne schemes can involve
just one farmer, a group or association of farmers. Preference is given to
schemes involving a large number of farmers.
25.       Technical evaluation is done by the newly formed technical unit,
and by consultants drawn from a panel approved by GOI. Services of the
CGWB, the Geological Survey of India and the various commodity boards are
also used with ARC prescribing the terms of reference in every case. With
the establishment of its own technical unit in Bombay and technical con-
sultancy units in Calcutta and Lucknow, increasing back-up support is now
available from ARC's own specialist staff which will provide a foundation
of technical expertise for scheme appraisal and supervision throughout
India.
26.       ARC staff make economic and financial evaluation of schemes.  Some
of the important aspects appraised include: cost estimates; tile suitability
of the cropping pattern; inputs available for development; farmers repayment
capacity; short-term credit arrangements; and marketing.



A.4iEX 4
Page 6
Lending Terms
27.       ARC provides refinance through purchases of special debentures
floated Dy LDB and through loans to CB. Special debentures are backed by
a charge on all mortgages resulting from loans refinanced under the issue,
and in addition are guaranteed by the state government concerned. Loans to
CB are secured by mortgages or hypothecation of assets financed, and generally
also carry bank guarantees.
28.       Prior to IDA participation in ARC operations, the special deben-
tures were repayable in one lump sum at the end of the loan period, and ARC
required that collections from farmers in the interim be placed in a silking
fund. In the case of IDA-supported projects ARC is given the benefit of the
re-use of funds realized from farmers' collections. The repayments of such
special debentures under IDA projects are, therefore, scheduled approximately
to match farmers collections, and the sinking fund arrangements do not apply.
Although ARC may lend medium-term (3-5 years), most of its refinancing nas
been long-term: the latter is in effect divided into periods not exceeding
9 or 15 years, reflecting the different terms on which ARC borrows from GOI
(para 10).
29.       Until 1967/68 ARC refinance was limited to 75% of loans made to
farmers for any purpose. In tnat year, iiowever, ARC agreed to increase
its refinancing of minor irrigation investments up to 90U, but for other
purposes (e.g. land levelling, farm mechanization) it remained at 75X.
Tne state governments provide tne balance for LDB, and the CB tnemselves
for their own loans.  In 1971, ARC agreed that, for a limited period, it
would refinance 100% of loans made to small farmers' under SFDA and ;1FDA
schemes.
30.       Since August, 1974, ARC's annual lending rate has been 7.57
(previously 7%) and the minimum on-lending rate to farmers by LDB and CB,
10.5%. Tile actual rate to farmers charged in each project must first be
agreed with ARC, and all LDB and CB operating the scheme must charge the
same rate.
Lending Commitments
31.       The following table shows the growth of ARC commitments (less
subsequent cancellations) during tile ten years to June 1973, the date of
the last audited accounts.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Number of
Schemes        Total Financial
Year                 Approved            Assistance         ARC Commitment
--------------(Rs 'N)---------------
1963/64                     3                  27                   25
1964/65                    10                 206                  169
1965/66                   24                  180                  142
1966/67                   15                  105                   85
1967/68                   89                  682                  586
1968/69                  108                  792                  693
1969/70                  142                  928                   709
1970/71                  100                  621                  539
1971/72                  269                1,542                1,351
1972/73                  230                1,966                1,723
1973/74                  550                2,513                2,205
Less Reductions         1,540               9,562                 8,227
or Withdrawals           83               1,493                1,186
1,457               8,069                 7,041
As at Jan. 31, 1974, ARC had 422 schemes under consideration for a total
of Rs 2.3 billion (Table 5).
32.       During the initial years, ARC transacted very little business due
to the need to establish the groundwork and bases for its operations and for
building up its staff.  The above table snows in particular the growth which
has taken place since 1967/68 when ARC increased its refinancing of minor
irrigation schemes to 90%.  With increased staff and substantial financial
assistance from IDA, ARC was in a position to more than double its operations
in 1971/72 against 1970/71.
33.       Most of the schemes sanctioned have been for projects financed
by LDB:
Schemes Approved              ARC Commitment
Average per
iiumber       %            Total            Scheme
Rs A     X           Rs iA
(a)  Land Develop-
ment Banks             730        50.1      5,369    76.2           7.3
(b)  State Coopera-
tive Banks              47         3.2        262      3.7          5.6
(c)  Scheduled Com-
mercial Banks           680       46.7      1,410    20.1           2.1
Total           1,457       100.0      7,041   100.0          4.8



ANLNEX 4
Page 8
34.       About 86% of the cost of schemes approved for refinance have ueen
for minor irrigation and land development:
Schemes Approved              ARC Commitment
Average per
Number        V.           Total            Scheme
Rs M     _X          Rs IM
(a)  iUinor Irrigation      860        59.0      5,402    76.7          6.3
(b)  Land Development
and Soil Conserva-
tion                   89          6.2        684      9.7         7.7
(c)  Tractor and Power
Tillers                107         7.3        176      2.5         1.6
(d)  Plantations and
liorticulture         233         16.0        387      5.5         1.7
(e)  Poultry                 32         2.2         18      0.3         0.6
(f)  Fisheries               22          1.5        57      0.8         2.6
(g)  Dairying                82         5.6        108      1.5         1.3
(h)  Storage and
f-larket Yards         31          2.1        208      2.9         6.7
(i)  Sheep Breeding           1         0.1           1     0.1         1.0
Total          1,457        100.0      7,041   100.0         4.8
Withdrawal of committed funds is normally phased over more than one year.
Disbursements
35.       During the early years, ARC disbursements lagged behind the drawing
scnedules agreed with the lending banks but, as tne following table snows,
this nas improved in recent years, partly as a result of ietter administrative
arrangements and partly through ARC's more frequent recourse to imposing
commitment fees:
Cumulative               Cumulative         Disbursements
Year           Schieduled Commitments        Disbursements       to Commitments
-------------Rs i4illionÖ----------------        -------------
1963/64
1964/65                   44.7                       4.5               10.1
1965/66                   87.3                      49.0               56.1
1966/67                   143.0                     69.8               48.8
1967/68                  254.8                     126.5               49.6
1968/69                  585.9                     304.9               52.0
1969/70                  921.5                     590.9               64.1
1970/71                1,256.7                     897.1               71.4
1971/72                1,760.4                   1,246.9               70.8
1972/73                2,914.0                   2,188.3               75.1
1973/74                4,355.6                   3,166.7               72.7



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Source of Funds
36. (a) Snare Capital: The borrowing power of ARC is restricted by Statute
to 20 times the paid up capital and the reserve fund (para 4). As on June 30,
1974, the issued and paid-up capital was Rs 150 million; the shareholders
were as follows:
Institution                     Shares Held June 30, 1974
Rs M                 x
Reserve Bank of India                  86.90                57.9
Central Land Development Banks         23.40                15.6
State Cooperative Banks                14.20                 9.5
Scheduled Commercial Banks             23.30                15.5
Insurance and Investment
Companies                             2.20                 1.5
150.00              100.0
(b)  Borrowings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI:  As on
June 30, 1974, borrowings from GOI stood at Rs 1.6 billion.  Tne availability
of funds from GOI during the year 1973-74 was limited mainly to reimbursement
of the equivalent of IDA Credit drawn.
(c) Issue and sale of debentures and bonds guaranteed by GOI: ARC has
been endeavouring to raise larger resources from the market. During 1974
it floated the fifth-sixth series of bonds amounting to Rs 275 million. Tihis
brings the aggregate amount so far raised in the market to Rs 662 million.
An analysis of the subscriptions received is indicated below:
Bond Series
I     II      III    IV       V      VI     Total
Dated:       1982   1982   1984   1985   1985   1986
Subscribers    Interest:   5.75X  5.75%  5.75%  5.75%  5.75X  5.75iO
-----------------Rs Hillion --------------------
1.   State Bank of India
and Subsidiaries             28.1   29.9   18.6   33.1   49.2        -      158.9
2.   Aationalized and
Otiher Commercial
Banks                        78.7   49.8   58.8   70.1   87.5         -     344.9
3.   Insurance Companies            1.0    1.0    2.4    1.4    2.0        -        7.8
4.   Cooperative Banks              0.2    4.5    2.5    4.9   25.9   110.0   148.0
5.   Others                         1.4     -      0.2    0.5    0.4       -        2.5
Total                  109.4   85.2   82.5  110.0  165.0   110.0   662.1



ANNEX 4
Page 10
(d) Borrowings from RBI for periods not exceeding 18 months: ARC's
statute was amended in August 1971 to enable it to borrow from the ±iational
Agricultural Credit Fund of RBI. The balance outstanding as on June 30, 1974,
stood at Rs 540 million. These borrowings are repayable in ten equal annual
installments. ARC also has arrangements with RBI to borrow money for short
periods not exceeding 18 months to meet temporary needs. A limit of Rs 150
million was granted for this purpose and the amount outstanding, as on June 30,
1974, was Rs 116 million.
(e) Deposits from GOI, state governments, and local authorities for
periods not less than 12 monthis:  The amount outstanding under this head,
as on June 30, 1974, was Rs 14.1 million and represented dividends payable
on ARC's shares held by RBI placed on special deposit with ARC. No interest
is payable on this special deposit.
Operating Results
37.       A comparative statement of ARC's operating results to June 30, 1974
is given in Table 6 and is summarized below (in Rs iIillion):
Net
Income   Statutory
Gross   Total      Net  Income  before   Dividend
Year  Income Expenses  Income   Tax  Dividends Liability   Surplus/Deficit
1963/64   3.75    0.30      3.45   1.80   1.65         1.91          -0.26
1964/65   4.00    0.39      3.61   1.76   1.85         2.13          -0.28
1965/66   4.35    0.48      3.87   2.27   1.60         2.13          -0.53
1966/67   4.98    0.61      4.37   2.40   1.97         2.13          -0.16
1967/68   6.00    1.67      4.33   2.38   1.95         2.13          -0.18
1968/69  11.04    6.29      4.75   2.61   2.14         2.13           0.01
1969/70  27.27   20.55      6.72   3.70   3.02         2.13           0.89
1970/71  42.66   35.72      6.94   3.44   3.50         2.82           0.68
1971/72  60.59   49.70    10.89   5.75   5.14          4.15           0.99
1972/73  92.44   75.36    17.08   8.90   8.17          6.15           2.02
1973/74 155.32  124.45    30.87  16.02  14.85          6.62           8.23
38.       In the first three years of ARC's operations, income was derived
mostly from interest on investments.  beginning 1966/67, tilis pattern changed
when ARC began to expand its refinancing operations. In 1972/73 interest
received from loans and debentures represented 96% of total income received.
ARC benefitted from cost-free funds available to it during the first four
years of its existence when the main items of expense were salaries and em-
ployee benefits. Until 1968/69, net income after tax was insufficient to
meet ARC's fixed dividend of 4.25% annually and this deficiency had to be
made good by GOI in accordance with its guarantee under the Act: ARC repaid
GOI this sum (Rs 1.4 million) during 1973/74. In 1968/69, nowever, profits
were sufficient to cover dividend payments and leave ARC with a small surplus,
and this position has significantly improved in the subsequent four years.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
39.       Tne scale of profits will in future largely depend on ARC's borrow-
ing rates, the extent of its recourse to the National Agricultural Credit
Fund at concessional rates, and its dependence on borrowings from the market
at higher rates. Projections of net income from 1973/74 to 1977/78 are in
Table 6. With the increased volume of lending the interest margin should be
sufficient to cover operating expenses and provide a net profit.
Fnarncial Position
40.       ARC is in a satisfactory financial condition.  Its equity position,
as of June 30, 1974, is unimpaired by losses, and its securities are mainly
in debentures of LDB which are guaranteed by state governments. Comparative
balance sheets for the last five years and projected balance sheets for
1973174 - 1977/78 are shown in Table 7. The balance sheet, in Rs million,
as of June 30, 1974, is summarized below:
Liabilities                                  Assets
Paid up share capital            150.0     Cash                         0.8
Loans and debentures 3,097.4
Reserves and surplus              15.0     Sundry advances              0.9
Special deposits                  14.1     Interest accrued on         83.5
loans and debentures
Bonds and debentures            662.1      Other assets                 8.5
Loans from GOI                1,635.0
Other borrowings                656.0
Other liabilities                58.9
3,191.1                              3,191.1
Audit
41.       In acco7dance with its charter, ARC's accounts are audited annually
by account.nzts duly qualified under the All India Companies Act of 1956 (the
present auc&.tors are Messrs. N.M. Raiji and Co.).  Under the same Charter,
GOI can appoint the Comptroller and Auditor General of India to examine and
report on thie accounts of ARC. To date, GOI has not found the need to
exercise this power.



AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATICN CREDIT PROJECT
iScultural Refinance Corporation
Average borrowing and lending rates from 1963-64 to 1972-73
Unit 1963-64  1964-65  1965-66  1966-67  1967-68  1968-69  1969-70  1970-71  1971r72  1972-73
I. Borrowings         Rs M    Nil       Nil      Nil      NUi)    30.0   207.5   506.9   887.3  1,082.3  2,182.0
outstanding as
at June 30 (ex-
cluding share capi-
tal and interest
free borrowing of
Rs 5 crores)
II. Ihterest paid on   Rs M   Nil        Nil      Nil      Nil       .47     4.42    17.07    30.60    44.12    89.37
borrowings during
the year
III. Average rate of     %      Nil       Nil      Nil      Nil      1.55     2.13      3.37     3.47    4.07      4.10
borrowings (per-
centage II to I)
IV. Refinance out-     Rs M   Nil        4.5    49.0      69.8   126.3   304.0   589.0    889.3  1,234.1  2,359.0
standing as at
June 30
V. Interest recovery  Rs M   Nil        Nil       1.09     3.o6     4.83   10.20   2)4.C09   40.12    58.78   117.27
on refinance
during the year
VI. Average rate of      %      Nil       0.05     2.22     4.40     3.83     3.36     4.c,9    4.51     4.76     4.97
lending (per-
centage of V to IV)
VII. Margin (VI-III)      g     Nil       0.05      2.22     4.40     2.28     1.23     C.72     1.04     o.69     o.88
May 31, 1974
F 4



ANNEX4
Tabl. 2
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE COPRf'0TIDN CREDIT IOECT
AaRricultural Ref tan.ce Corporation
Analybil  of lotere t RWte Strunt.r.
(OA-ot. tI . IS)
(RatO. in % per yeOa)
1963-64        1964-65        1965-66        1966-67        1967-68        1968-69        1965-70        1970-71        1971-72
Ant.  Rate    Ant.  R.te    AAt. Rat.    Mt.  &at             .. ate    At.  Rate    A-t.  Rat.    Ant.  Rote   AMt.  Rate
1.  Lending Rate /0                                     5.50     4.5  6.00   44.5   6.00    20.8  6.00    56.7  6,00   178.4  6.00   285.9  6.00   306.1  6.50   349.8  6.50
Total       -      -       4.5   -      44.5    -       20.8   -       56.7   -      178.4   -      285.9   -       306.1   -      349.8   -
11. Barrowing Rate A
(a) GO Loans
(i)  No.-l                              50.0   -         -    -        -      -        -    -       30.0  5.50   117.7  4.75   150.0  4.75   120.0  4.75         0.5  4.75
60.0  5.25    40.0  5.25   100.0  5.75    70.0  5.25
(ii)  IDA                                                                           Ö _         -    - .            -                                            31.1  4.75
2.2  5.25
(b) Open Market B-rro-ing                            ÖÖ109.4  5.75    85.3  5.75    82.5  5.75
(c) Be roving roon 0.01
(I) short-te. ---75.2 6.00 3.39 6.00
(ii) Lagn-te                 -                   -                                                        - -50.0 4.25
(d) Share Capital                            50.0 4.25---  50.0 4.50
Tot-l     100.0   _         _         .       .           .    -       30.0   -      177.5   *      299.4      .   380.5   -      320.2   -
/a       Rate of Lending a. at the end of the year.
.Interest-wis. etsta.nding of ARC borrowing. as  on 31.5,73
Interest free         4.25%       4.75%       5.25%      5.502       5.7$%         Total
(a) Borrowing. fro- Goavrnaeet of India:
(i)  Nrol                                                  50.0                          376.4       340.0        30.0         -           796.4
(ii)  IDA/IBRD                                                -                  -        347.7        74.2          -          _          421.9
(b) Rper-re Bark of [.dia L.T.O. Fund                              _               297.0          -           -          ,                      297.0
(Oc Open Rarket                                                    -                              ,          _                    387.1         387.1
Total                          50.0              297.0       724.1      414.2        30.0       387.1       1,902.4
IV.  tnterest-sie ourtanding of ARC lending, a.  an 31.5.73
57            5 1!27      5 3/4%         67       6 1/2%         7%          Total
(a befi-oance L.an.                                             10.2                 '                     61.8        80.9          .5         153.4
(b) Debeturen
(i)  N.re,al                                                 -                 75.9                  792.7       342.2          -       1,210.8
(ii)  IDA                                                     -                  -        294.2          -        225.2          -          519.4
Total                          10.2               75.9       294.2      854.5       648.3          .5       1, 883.6-
MHy 31, 1974



INDT-A
AGERICULTURAL REFINMACE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Board of Directors
Nominated/    Date Nominated/    Date Nomination
Name                           Appointment                      Elected           Elected          Election Expires
1.   Dr. R.K. Hazari              Deputy Governor - Reserve Bank           N.oninated     March 16, 1973
(Chairman)                  of India
2.   Shri T. P. Singh             Secretary to GOI - Ministry of
Agriculture, Dept. of Agriculture        Nominated     Nov. 18, 1972
3.   Shri M.A. Quraishi           Secretary to GOI - Ministry of           Nominated      Feb. 13, 1969
Agriculture, Dept. of Co-operation
and Community Development
4.   Shri A.K. Dutt               Joint Secretary to GOI - Ministry        Nominated      June 21, 1971
of Finance, Dept. of Banking
5.   Shri B,.S. Vishwanathan   2-esident - Misore State Co-opera.           Elected       Sept. 28, 1972       Sept. 28, 1976
tive Land Development Bank
6.   Shri M.R. Patel              Director - Gujarat State Co-opera-       Elected         Sept. 28, 1972      Sept. 28, 1976
tive Bank, Ltd.
7.   Shri T.R. Varadachary        Managing Director - State Bank of         Elected       Sept. 28, 1972       Sept. 28, 1976
India
8.   Dr. C.D. Datey               Executive Director - Agricultural         Nominated      Jan. 28, 1967
Credit Department, Reserve Bank
of India
9.   Shri M.A. Chidambaram        Managing Director - Agricultural          Appointed      Jan. 12, 1973
Refinance Corporation
jl    (i)  A nominated Director shall hold office during the pleasure of the authority nominating him.
(ii)  An elected Director shall hold office for four years.
February 28, 1975



INDIA
ACRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATIOtN CREDIT PROJECT
Agri-lcnDraL Refinueo CorwFti.oO
CiAIRMAN
ASNAIDSIC DIRECTOR
I1. DRCA)ilRAi
_                     I                                                                     I 
Fi.-ei.g nod
Senior Direetvr              Senior Director                           Senior Directoc                   Development         Trohoical         Droiuacion
SeoAjoto  Divietne I         Peojeot. Divini.n II         Fiennc    Ad.niitroEinr    Boari Ifctite-        DivinioO            1< Dieioe         C.                  TWeeIing Diviioio          nobay Regi-o1l Unit
11. PROJECTED STAFF ESTMArTES 1974 - 1979
HEkD OFFICE                                                                                  80181NL  OFFICES                                   TOMA
Semenl                                To   so2/nJtione                                                     LOeR. ______                             OMeoLt&oCY
IoDinr     -          D.enoty    Sa.inr     2inor                  -WA DGSn iD'lottr Diei9.Beneral                                                       nior                           vtnrO
DiS'ecto       c      mdrec       .-.t    A-1-2    T               Director   Director   A    ste  A      1   Tatal    Dirwctor    mtQr  A                         Total   Dinector   DAiector   Total
31.123                3          7          21         33 4n7              3111           9         12         8         5          34        7         17          37        18         79        1          8         J 9      233
As at the and of1                                                                                                                                                      )la                  71a9                                    23
3to .6.7&             3         7           21         33         117      111            9         12         8         5          34        7         12          37        18        79         1          8           9      233
Additioen dorliig8                                                                                                                                                                6         3         -44                            5
1974-75               1         2            5          2          2        12            3          2         1          -          6        3          6          18         8         35        -          4           4       57
As At the end of
30.6.75               4         9           26         35         119      123           12         14         9         5          40       10         23          55        26       124         1         12          13      290
I4did:ioo dwtseg                                                                             -          I          I         -2                  49                    l                     3--                                      6
12975-76              -         4            2         10          9        25            _          1         1         _           2        4           9         14         6         33        -           _          _       60
A   t 676 nd o                     13          28         45         58       2148          12         15         10         5         42       14          32         69         32       147         1         12         13       350
Addition dtwiog12                                                               2                                                                                      222                  34                                        5
1976-7                -         -            -         12         12        24            _          .         .          _          _        _           _         22        12         34        _           .          -       58
a.    te                         13           28         57         70       172           12         15        10          5         42       2.4         32         91         44       181        1          12         13       408
Addi1u- d                                      -rlr       2          6          8           -                                                                                                -        -          - _  _
As at the *ad of                                                                                                                                                                             s1121                                   41
30.6.78               2        13           28         59         76       180           12         15        10          5         42       1!          32         91         44       181        1          12         13       416
Joly 31, 1974



INDIA
AGRICCIL1T.UAL REFINANCE CORPORAIION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Scheaes Under Consideration as at January 31, 1974
(Amounts in Rs M)
State               Minor              Land Development   Farm Mechari-    Plantations
Irrigation        Sf,il Conservation  zAtion             Horticulture        Storage            Miscellanecus        Total
No. of            No. of               Au. of             No.  ,f             No. of             No. of               No. of              Average
Schemes  Amount  Schemes  Amount    Schemes  Amount  Schemies  Amount    Schemes Amount   Schemes Amount              Schemes Amount    Value
1) Andhra Pradesh        23       48.9       1       1.0          -         -        3       8.8          -      -          1        .8         "p      'Q9.       2.1
2) Assam                   8      28.0       -         -          -         -        2      35.9          1      3.2        1        .5         12      67.6       5.6
3) Bihar                   3      48.8       -         -          -         -        -         -          4     14.2        1       1.9           8     64.9       8.1
4) Delhi                   -         -        -        -          -         -        -         -          -       -          1        .2          1        .2        .2
5) Goa                     -         -        -        -          -         -        -         -          -       -          1      6.9           1      6.9       6.9
6) Gujarat                12      24.6       -         -          2        3.1       -         -          1      1.5        1       5.4          16     34.6       2.2
7) Haryana                14     502.5       1       4.2          1        1.4       -         -          -       -          2      2.7          18    510.8      28.4
8) Jammu & Kashmir         1        1.3      1       1.1          -         -        -         -          -       -          1      1.0           3       3.4       1.1
9) Karnataka               5        8.1      4      16.8          2        4.8       9       57.1         -       -          1        .9         21     87.7       4.1
10) Kerala                  -         -        -       -           -         -       12       35.9         -       -          2       6.6         14     42.5        3.0
11) Madhya Pradesh        104     460.8        -       -           3       11.8       -         -          -       -          1       1.1        108    473.7        4.4
12) Maharashtra            49       98.8      5    115.8          17        6.7       -         -                  _         22     27.4          93    248.7        2.7
13) Meghalaya               -         -        -       -           -         -        1        1.3         -       -          4      4.4           5       5.7       1.1
14) Orissa                  2       42.8       -       -           -         -        5       10.8         -       -          3       5.9         10      59.5       5.9
15) Pondicherry             1        3.1       -       -           -         -        -         -          -       -          2        .7          3       3.8       1.3
16) Punjab                  9       54.1       -       -           1        4.5       -         _          _       _          1     12.4          11      71.0       6.5
17) Rajasthan              12       83.9       -       -            -        -        -         -          6      30.5        -        -          18    114.4        6.4
18) Tamil Nadu             11       60.9       1      6.9          -         -        -         --                 -          3       1.9         15      69.7       4.6
19) Uttar Pradesh          19      340.7       -       -           3        6.4       6       20.0         -       -          3       6.7         31    373.8       12.1
20) West Bengal             5       26.8       -                    -         -       1        9.7                            -        -           6      36.5       6.1          > >
------------------    ----------------------------------------         -    -    --     -    -    -     -    -    -     -    -    -    -     ---         2
278   1,834.1      13    145.8          29       38.7      39      179.5        12      49.4       51     87.4         422  2,334.9        5.5        a
May 31, 1974



INDIA
AGRICULV[UAL RBFIXACE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Condensed Statement of Net Income of ARC
(R: M)
________-----_--------ACTUAL                            -       --PROJECTED-----------------------
1968/1969   1969/1970    1970/1971    1971/1972    1972/1973          1973/1974    1974/1975    1975/1976       197611977   1977/1978
INCOME
Interest Earned on:
(i)   IDA Project Loans                  -            -            -            -             -                  2          3             7               11          16
(ii)  IDA Project Debentures             -            -            -             .98        12.04               50         74           104              142         186
(iii) Other Loans                         .55        1.86         2.96         5.21          9.00               13         16            20               25          30
(iv) Other Debentures                   9.65        22.22        37.17        52.59         67.56               85        113           146              187         235
Other Income                                o.84        3.19         2.53          1.81         3.84                5           5            5                5            5
Total Income               11.04        27.27        42.66        60.59         92.44              155        211           282              370         472
EXPENSES
Interest Paid on:
(i)   GOI IDA Project Loans              -            -            -            0.62         6.66               28          44           63               87         118
(ii)  GOI'Other Loans                   4.42        13.94        21.46         30.58        36.99               37          46           56               70           85
(iii) RBI Long-term Loans                -            -            -            0.44         6.01               21          32           42               52           61
(iv)  RBI Short-term Loans                -          0.04         0.13          0.05         o.06               -           -            -                -            -
(v)  Bonds and Debenturer                -           3.09         9.22         12.43        17.71               27          42           57               75          100
Salaries and Staff Benefits                 1.43        2.04         3.40          3.91         4.86                 7          8            11              12           13
General Expenses                            0.44        1.44         1.51          1.67         3.08                 4          4             4               4            5
Total Expenses              6.29        20.55        35.72         49.70        75.37              124         176          233              300          382
Profit Before Tax                                4.75        6.72         6.94         10.89        17.07                31         35            49              70           90
Transfer to Special Reserve                       -           -            0.69         1.10         1.77                 3          4             5                7           9
Tax                                              2.61        3.70          3.44         5.75         8.90                16         20            27               37          48
Profit After Tax                                 2.14        3.02         2.81          4.04         6.40                12         14            19              26           34
Dividend                                         2.13        2.13         2.13          3.05         4.38                 7          8             9               13          15
Net Surplus                                      0.01        0.89          0.68         0.99         2.02                 5          6            10               13          19
May 31, 1974



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Coudensed salance Sheets of ARC
(Rs M)
__________-______Act    tu------------------------  -         --------------------------Projected----------------------------
196S/i369  1969/1970  1970/1971  1971/1972    1972/1973         yL s/J97   1974/19'15   1975/1976     1976/1977    1977/1978
ASSETS
Cash on hand and at Banks                    0.o6       0.04       100.09        0.21         0.40               1            1            1             1             1
Investments                                  5.27      25.61         0.20          -
IDA Project Loans                             -          -            -           -            -                56           80          136           202          277
IDA Project Debentures                        -          -          11.10       53.70       659.63             993        1,382        1,880         2,478         3,150
Other Loans                                 25.49      42.93        65.85       137.72      205.42             382          290          349           420           500
Other Debentures                           278.55     546.o4      -32.39    1,042.68       1,296.31          1,666        2,062        2,590         3,223         3,936
Interest Acrrued on Loans                    0.31       1.04         1.64        2.90         3.22               7           12           20            32            45
Interest Accrued on Debentures               6.95      13.95        23.16        31.52       50.33              84           4B           70            98           137
Other Assets                                 6.20       1.70         2.42         2.97       11.03               2            1            1             1             1
Total Assets                           322.83    631.31    1.016.85      1,271.70    2.226.34           3,191        3,876        5,047         6,455         8,o47
LIA3T,TTrrTS 8' CAPITAL
Liabilities
Bonds and Debentures                           -      109.38       194.63       277.13       387.13            662          814        1,074         ;,442         1,886
Deposits                                      6.i5      7.40         8.65         9.90       11.63              14           19           23            27            30
Loans froa GOI
(i) IDA Project Loans                    -          -            -          33.29      440.06             720        1,023        1,411         1,876         2,440
(ii)Other                             257.50     447.50       667.50       738.02      808.41             915        1,008        1,259         1,508         1,808
Loans fral MBI
(i) Long-term                            -          -            -          50.00      345.00             656          745          945         i,145         1,345
(ii)Short-term                           -          -          75.20        33.87       37.00             .              
Loans-Others                                  -          -            -            -            -              -            -            -             -
Other Liabilities                            9.16      16.12        18.59        25.12        38.95             59           42           45            47            48
Total Liabilities                      272.81    580.40       964.57    1i167.33      2,068.18           3,026       3,651        4,757         6.C45         7.557
Capital
Paid-up Shares                              50.00      50.00        50.00       100.00       150.00            150          200          250           350           400
Reserves & Undistributed Income               0.02      0.91         2.28         4.37         8.16              15          25           40            60            90
Total Capital                           50.02     50.91        52.28       104.37       158.16             165          225         290           410           490
Total Liabilities & Capital       322.83    631.31     1,016.85     1,271.70     2.226.34           3,191        3,876        5,047         6,455         8,047
May 31, 1974



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CCRPCRATICN CREDIT PROJECT
Agrizulatural Refinance Corporation - Growth Since Inception
Position as at end of June         1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
Share Capital and Reserves        50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.9    52.3   104.4   108.2   165.0
Special Deposit                      -    01.1    02.4    03.6    04.9    06.1    07.4    08.7    09.9    11.7    14.1
Subvention Loans                  00.3    00.5    01.1    01.2    01.4    01.4    01.4    01.4    01.4    01.4          -
Borrowings
(1)  Erom GOI                     50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    80.0   257.5   447.5   667.5   771.3 1,248.5 1,635.0
(2)  From RBI                       -        -       -       -       -        -       -     75.2    83.9   382.0   656.0
(i)  Short term               -       -        -       -       -       -        -     75.2    33.9    37.0   116.0
(ii)  Long term                -                                                         -      50.0   345.0   540.0
(3)  Bonds and Debentures           -        -       -       -       -        -    109.-4  19.6   277.1   387.1   662.1
Refinance granted (net)              -    04. 5    49.0   69.7   126.3   304.0   588.9   V89.3 1,234.1 2,161.4 3,097.4
(i)  Debentures               -     0h55    4705    66.7   119.0   278.5   546.0   812.4 1,096.4 1,956.0 2,715.1
(ii)  Loans                    -        -     01.5    03.0    07.3    25.5    42.9    76.9   137.7   205.4   382.3
Other Assets                      20.5    00.5    01.2    02.2    05.1    12.2    15.9    25.8    36.0    63.2    92.9
Investment and Cash Reserves      82.0    99.2    55.2    35.8    08.5    05.2    25.0   100.3    00.2    00.4    00.8
Gross Income                      03.7    o4.0    04.3    05.0    o6.o    11.0    27.3    42.7    60.6    92.4   155.3
Profits Before Tax                 03.5   03.6    03.9    04.4    04.3    04.8    06.7    06.9    10.9    17.1    30.9
Tax Payable                       01.8    01.8    02.3    02.4    02.4    02.6    03.7    03.4    05.8    08.9    16.9
Profits After Tax                  01.7    01.8    01.6    02.0    01.9    02.2    03.0    03.5    05.1    08.1    14.9
Dividend Paid                      02.1    02.1    02.1    02.1    02.1    02.1    02.1    02.1    03.1    04.4    06.6
Source:  ARC Amnual Report and Accounts June 30, 1974.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
ItNDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agriculture and Diversification
The Relationship Between Energy, Crop Production and Agricultural Lending
1.        Indian agriculture is faced with a formidable challenge as the
result of the current energy crisis. A massive effort is required to main-
tain internal food supplies and maximize export earnings. The high cost
and shortage of petroleum products have been and will continue to be felt
most in those crops which are dependant upon commercial fertilizers to
produce economic yields; namely the high yielding varieties of food crops
which have been genetically selected to respond to fertilizer.
2.        Fertilizer targets and use for the years 1972/73 and 1973/74 give
some indication of the likely effects on yields. 1972/73 consumption of
2.7 million tons was about 85% of the target of 3.2 million tons. 1973/74
consumption is estimated to be 2.8 million tons; 1974/75 consumption will
at best be slighUly lower than 1973/74 (Table 1). Although prices of fer-
tilizer are regulated, the large gap between supply and demand makes it
extremely difficult to control prices and distribution.
3.        Large quantities of fertilizer will be used where it will yield
the greatest monetary return, for example, sugar cane, and not necessarily
for food crops for which there is the greatest need.
4.        There are several ways to compensate partially for the fertilizer
shortage: (a) improved husbandry; (b) increased use of organic fertilizers;
tc) intensification through inter-cropping, increasing cropping rates
(percent of multiple cropping); (d) decreasing fallow; (e) increasing area
and crops under irrigation; and (f) extension of cultivated area. Improved
husbandry will have marginal effect among the better farmers, the primary
users of fertilizer (who already obtain high yields).
5.        Most tropical soils, which include a major portion of India, are
low in organic matter and respond well to farm manures and green organic
material particularly through the use of leguminous green manures in high
rainfall areas such as Western Karnataka. Green manure, compost and farm-
yard manure8 aie tued in coffee and codonut production particularly when
inter-cropping is practical during the gestation period. When properly
managed, some soils can be highly productive even with a limited supply of
commercial fertilizer; Indian farmers, being accustomed to the use of organic
fertilizers, may thus be able to overcome some of the effects of commercial
fertilizer shortage. Extension services at all levels will have to play an
important role in the efficient and economic utilization of available resources.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
6.        The 1973/74 rabi wheat crop has been affected by the supply of
fertilizer, which was one-third less than requirements and not available on
time. In the two major wheat producing states, Punjab and Haryana, the crop
has been affected by the failure of rains in some areas and frost damage.
The shortage of rain contributed to a lack of power (electrical) for irri-
gation, although irrigation was given high priority in the allocation of
electrical energy. There have been reports of diesel fuel shortages (Punjab
in particular) for irrigation and tractor power; however, diesel supply for
agriculture has high priority. Despite this, new irrigation facilities may
have to be postponed in some areas.
7.        In theory each kw of energy used for fertilizer has a greater
impact on yields than that used for irrigation; however, in practice the
response to fertilizer is directly related to the availability of moisture
(irrigation).
8.        With the existing shortage of energy (particularly the availability
of fertilizer) irrigation can contribute more to maintain levels of produc-
tion than any other single input. As of January 1974, an estimated 2.4
million pumpsets or more out of a total 4.0 million have been electrified
(see Table 2). Recent shortages of diesel fuel and electrical energy in
some states (for example, Tamil Nadu) have, however, resulted in a temporary
setback to minor irrigation projects and the electrification of irrigation
pumps.
9.        The Rural Electrification Commission reported that GOI proposed
to expand energizing of irrigation pumps to about 4.0 million sets by the end
of the Fifth Plan--1979. The program has made excellent progress, reaching
more than one quarter (145,000) villages by the end of the 3rd quarter of
1973 (Table 3). By the end of 1974 almost 40% of the rural population are
expected to have access to electrification, although there are wide varia-
tions from state to state and within states. It is envisaged that future
emphasis on irrigation will occur in many of the areas where electrification
has not yet reached.
Review of the Fourth Plan 1969/70-1973/74
10.       The main objective of the agricultural sector was to achieve a
5% annual increase in production of foodgrains; current projections indicate
the actual rate achieved was about 2.7%. Targets for wheat production were
exceeded but other cereals, notably rice and maize, were considerably below
forecasts. The rate of growth of wheat production was about 10% on the
base year 1968/69, whereas rice and maize growth rates were 2.1% and 2.7%
respectively as compared to the targets of 5.9% and 5.2%. Diseases and
fertilizer shortages have been in part to blame for the shortfall in production.
11.       In the base year 1968/69 an estimated 1.5 million ha of horticulture
and plantation crops produced 8.6 million tons. The area under these crops
was expected to increase by about 0.4 million ha during the Fourth Plan,



ANNEX 5
Page 3
with production not materially affected, due to the long gestation period of
these crops. Recent figures indicate an actual increase of about 0.3 million
ha with a total production of about 9.2 million tons. 1/
12.       Achievements in the cultivated area and in production of horticulture
and plantation crops were below expectations for some of the following reasons:
(a) Bananas: A Banana Development Corporation was established
to develop 12,000 ha of export varieties, but only
about one half of this area will actually be in production
by the end of the Plan period.
(b) Coconuts: Kerala has been seriously affected by blight.
However, a rejuvenation program is under way in an attempt
to reverse production declines. The program for the dis-
tribution of hybrid seedlings only reached 60% of the
target of 0.2 million.
(c)  Pepper:  The Fourth Plan forecast a large increase in
yields on existing plantations with production over
40,000 tons. The financial return to farmers has, however,
been disappointing and actual production is not expected
to exceed 30,000 tons.
Market and farmers' prices have increased and are expected to remain strong,
making cultivation of plantation and horticulture crops attractive.
13.       Most states have enacted legislation to regulate markets and about
2,500 of 4,700 recognized markets are now regulated. Although grading and
quality pricing are still not widely practiced, improved grading, storage
and warehousing are being established and planned. In 1969 there was about
4.8 million tons of storage capacity in the public sector. By the end of
1973 cooperative-owned storage capacity, which is being encouraged and
popularized, is estimated to have exceeded 4.0 million tons. On-farm
storage is being promoted in the cereal producing areas of Punjab, Harayana,
Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. Training is provided in grain
storage management and pest control.
Review of the Fifth Year Plan 1974-1979
14.       The Fifth Plan calls for a rapid growth in total cropped area to
increase production, with Plan targets over 2 million ha per year and a
total extension of irrigated area by more than 11 million ha. The Plan
proposes total cropped area should increase from 169 million to 180 million
ha by the end of the Plan period. A major program is the involvement of
1/   Fifth Five Year Plan 1974-1979.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
small farmers, marginal farmers, dryland farmers and farm laborers through
the Small and Marginal Farmers Development Authorities and the Drought Prone
Area schemes. In the humid areas of the north-east and Kerala and similar
climatic areas of the coastal belt and highlands, the development of plan-
tation and horticulture crops are to be given priority. These crops serve
the dual purpose of providing cash income and promoting soil conservation.
15.       Agricultural production is to be supported by strengthening the
administrative and extension services. Supporting services are to include
increasing and up-grading staff and facilities at the state, district, block
and village levels.
16.       Production targets for the Fifth Plan are dependent upon several
major factors: expansion of irrigation, and availability of fertilizer,
HYV seeds and plant protection chemicals. Currently it is impossible to
forecast how much fertilizer will be available for 1974/75 although it is
expected to be slightly higher than 1973/74 and 60% of the target of 3.9
million tons.
17.       The Fifth Plan envisages a program of selective mechanization to
complement other inputs for increasing cropping intensity and productivity.
The present total level of energy available for agriculture production is
about 0.3 hp per ha, of which 0.03 hp is mechanical power. Experience has
shown that in some areas cropping intensity, yields and employment have
simultaneously increased with an increase in mechanization.
18.       Current sales of tractors are about 30,000 units a year, and annual
demand is forecast to rise to 80,000 by the end of the Plan; indigenous
production for 1973 was about 25,000 units. A dramatic increase in single-
axle tractors is forecast, with annual demand increasing from the present
level of 3,500 to 20,000 units; the single-axle tractor park would thus
increase from about 10,000 to 100,000 units. This forecast is considered to
be over optimistic, and 50,000 four wheel units and 10,000 single-axle tractor
units by the end of the Plan is more realistic.
The Fifth Plan and Diversified Lending
19.       The Fifth Plan gives ample scope for development of plantation and
fruit crops; particularly in high rainfall areas where irrigation is not
required. A large portion of plantation crop development (coffee, tea,
coconut, pepper and cardamon) would come from a rejuvenation program in
areas where water is already available through rainfall and/or irrigation.
20.       In general, schemes for investment for diversification of agricul-
ture could proceed with little effect from the energy shortage as they
would probably receive priority fertilizer allocations. Coffee, tea, rubber,
cocoa, cardamon and pepper are all foreign exchange earners which indirectly
contribute to the solution of the energy shortage both by foreign exchange
earnings and import substitution. Many of these crops are supported by a
strong institutional network in both the public and private sector.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
21.       Other categories for diversified lending include livestock,
poultry, fisheries, marketing and storage. Although not directly affected
by the supply of fertilizer and fuels, they will be affected by the re-
sultant changes in prices for food and feed grains. The price trend of
plantation and orchard crops remains strong with demand exceeding supply;
this situation is expected to continue.
22.       If, as the result of anticipated production shortages, the prices
and rates of return on the traditional cereal crops rise, farmers will be
reluctant to switch over to tree crops that will not show a net return from
fruit for the first five to ten years and will simultaneously result in a
decrease in yield of the cereal inter-crop. Inter-cropping is necessary
for farmers to maintain their income and family during the long tree crop
gestation period. Although alternative inter-crops may give a higher rate
of return than cereals, farmers are inclined to continue to grow the neces-
sary food crops, and those that they know both how to cultivate and what
yields to expect. Thus the most common inter-crops on farms in the state
of Karnataka are rice, wheat, vegetables and groundnuts.
23.       In the absence of any subsidy, tree and plantation crops are only
attractive to the larger farmer who has adequate land resources to ensure
a regular income during the tree crop gestation period. Coconuts for ex-
ample are grown in Karnataka on many farms of 5 to 12 ha. Farmers with
established plantations are well aware of the long-term returns from coco-
nut and are quite willing to extend their plantings; small farmers will be
much harder to convince.
24.       ARC disbursements for diversified lending totalled Rs 193 million
over the past five years (1969-1973), reaching a high of Rs 55 million in
1972/73. Diversified lending accounted for over 9% of its lending over the
past 10 years but only about 6% in 1972/1973. The three main categories of
diversified lending are:  (1) storage and marketing (43%); (2) plantations
and horticulture (34%); and (3) livestock, poultry and fisheries (23%).
25.       The demand for credit for plantation crops, horticulture, poultry,
fisheries, dairy, storage and marketing is increasing with the trend to higher
farm-gate prices and growing internal shortages of some products; notably
coconut, fruits, poultry and eggs. Considering the scattered nature and small
investment requirements for most diversified lending, however, no dramatic
increased lending in these categories is anticipated. Although there may be
potential for expansion, it will not occur without a deliberate effort on
the part of ARC and LDB, whose staff and experience are mainly in minor
irrigation and land development.
26.       If lending for minor irrigation and land development does not
increase significantly, the institutions could devote more time and effort
to diversified lending. Nevertheless, there would be a considerable lag
between demand and disbursement, as increases would be constrained by the
ability to appraise, sanction and disburse. Thus the rate which ARC could



ANNEX 5
Page 6
increase diversified lending depends on two factors: (1) rate which other
lending slows down or decreases; and (2) rate which ARC and LDB staff can be
trained and gain experience in other lending categories.
27.       ARC has a Technical Division with its Head Office in Bombay,
branches at Calcutta and Lucknow and a national panel of technical experts
employed as consultants for specific technical appraisals. LDB and CB
are encouraged to establish their own technical units. The LDB of Gujarat,
Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh have such units; most
of the expertise being in minor irrigation and land development. In addi-
tion, many technical publications are available from the Department of
Agriculture, universities, colleges and private institutions and organiza-
tions, as guidelines for project formulation and appraisal.
28.       ARC and the LDB rely heavily on technical staff of state govern-
ments i.e., agriculture departments, statutory boards, state corporations,
state educational and research institutions, as well as private institutions
for the identification and formulation of projects, and to give technical
guidance to farmers at all stages of planning and development. In addition,
the technical experts of these institutions assist and support project
appraisals whenever necessary. In the case of special crops, tea, rubber,
coffee, sericulture, etc., statutory boards have specialized experts who
give advice and assistance before and after development.
29.       Due to the wide range of diversified lending, the relatively small
amounts to be disbursed in most states, and the scattered nature and frag-
mentation of most schemes, ARC and LDB must continue to call upon outside
assistance for development of guidelines for economic and technical appraisal
of many projects. In certain states, Karnataka for example, technical
services are considered excellent for plantation crops such as coffee, coco-
nut and silk. The Horticulture department in Karnataka is the largest and
best in the country; technical advice and assistance to the coconut and cocoa
industry are available from commercial companies, the headquarters of the
Coffee Board is located in Bangalore, and the state has a Department of
Sericulture.
Tree Crops
30.       The national program for tree crops is based largely on rejuve-
nation of existing plantations and orchards, mainly coconut, mango, citrus,
and coffee.
31.       Coconut:  The present area planted to coconut is about 1.1 million
ha with a production of 6,200 million nuts. Rehabilitation of coconut
production is of prime importance to overcome the large and expanding gaps
between internal demand and production. Production has suffered a severe
setback due to widespread root wilt disease in Kerala and Goa. A major
effort is being made to control and eradicate the disease and rehabilitate
existing plantations. There is potential for increasing and expanding pro-
duction in Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Yield increases



ANNEX 5
Page 7
of 10 to 20% and more are readily achievable through the use of improved
cultural practices; too many farmers look upon coconut as a secondary crop
and do not obtain viable yields; it is planted on borders, along irrigation
canals, etc., and given only casual care and attention. Farmers are how-
ever beginning to realize that coconut can be successfully inter-cropped
to provide a regular source of cash income. Inter-cropping is particularly
attractive to farmers with relatively large holdings, enabling them to set
aside part of their land for establishment of coconut without a serious
effect on net income.
32.       Although coconut can be a good cash crop for the smallholder his
net income suffers during the long gestation period. Government has rec-
ognized that promotion and establishment of plantation and orchard crops
on small holdings will often require a subsidy program such as has been
proposed in Maharashtra under the SFDA scheme for the development of cashew-
nut, mango and coconut.
33.       Coconuts are normally planted on the lower flat lands and require
water for supplementary irrigation during the first 2 to 3 years; on a small
scale hand-watering is a common practice. Because of the traditional sec-
ondary nature of coconut cultivation, national average yields have been very
low; less than 25 nuts per tree. With a minimum of improved cultural prac-
tices, national average yields of 40 nuts per tree could easily be achieved.
Cultivators in Karnataka growing coconut as a primary crop obtain yields of
60 to 100 nuts per tree.
34.       Mango:  Mangos, like coconuts, are often grown as a secondary cash
crop. Demand is very good for both the fresh and processed fruit throughout
the country. Even in the absence of an organized marketing system, farmers
have no difficulty in selling their crops. Prices have been steadily rising
and, although ARC and LDB have been using a price of Rs 15 to Rs 20 per 100
fruit for economic calculations, current prices of Rs 25 to Rs 30 per 100
fruit have been reported. Yields of 400 to 500 fruits per tree are possible
with a population of 100 to 150 trees per ha.
35.       Mangos are more attractive as a tree crop than coconut because more
farmers are familiar with their care and maintenance, having planted a few
trees in the past for family use. Interest and know-how exists on a wider
scale, and mangos, having a shorter six year gestation period, normally
cover the cost of maintenance in the 7th year.
36.       The market for mangos appears to be almost unlimited, and extension
of the area cultivated to exceed demand is highly unlikely. In spite of the
absence of an organized marketing system, the farm-gate price continues to
increase.
37.       Citrus:  The citrus industry has been declining.  Disease resistant
varieties are now available which make citrus production much more attractive,
while marketing is better organized and packing houses and processing plants
are being established.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
38.       The deteriorating production and increasing demand have resulted
in a sharp rise in prices. Limes, lemons and mandarin oranges are selling
for as much as Rs 0.20 to Rs 0.30 each or, as in the case of mangos, at
almost double the price used by ARC in determining the viability of citrus
growing. The crop is often sold on the tree at Rs 50 to Rs 100 per 1000
and Rs 20 to Rs 30 per 100 fruits (picked) at the farm gate. An effective
system of marketing has been developed whereby farmers can sell fruit on the
tree to contractors who harvest and transport the fresh produce to the
market.
39.       Coffee:  India produces over 90,000 tons of coffee annually of
which about 60% is exported. There is a national effort to upgrade existing
plantations and establish new ones, with emphasis on small growers (less
than 4 ha).
40.       In Karnataka Rs 0.2 million has been sanctioned to small growers
for sinking wells and constructing drying floors; over 230 beneficiaries
have received financial assistance for replanting old coffee which has become
uneconomic. Due to the shortage of suitable lands for cultivation and the
cost of new plantations, replanting is essential. Karnataka leads in coffee
production having more than 60% of the total of 0.14 million ha coffee under
cultivation in India. Of the 85,000 ha of coffee in that state about half
is in holdings of less than 10 ha.
41.       Indian coffee production has shown some increase in the past five
years. Some of this is due to favorable weather conditions, as in 1970/71
(Table 4). However, a steady increase in production and yields per ha is
envisaged as replanted areas come into production and farmers adopt new and
improved cultural practices; in particular the use of irrigation and commer-
cial fertilizer. The national average yield of arabica and robusta coffee
is about 500 kg per ha; yields of 700 to 800 kg are common on better managed
plantations. The price of raw coffee averaged about Rs 330 (50 kg) for
arabica and Rs 290 for robusta in December 1973; the retail market price
for coffee was Rs 7.00 to Rs 10.00 per kg during the same period. A dramatic
price increase has occurred since that date, both on the internal and
export markets. Demand is expected to be strong and prices to continue
to rise.
42.       Other tree crops:  Demand for refinance for development of cacao,
rubber, tea, oil palm and cardamon has been very limited, and this pattern
is likely to continue. Production of these crops involves long-term lending
of 10 to 15 years, and disbursement throughout the gestation period. Generally,
these crops require exacting growing conditions and thus are limited to se-
lected areas. Cacao, for example requires a high rainfall distributed
evenly throughout the year, a uniform high temperature and deep soils
which retain moisture. All of these tree crops; cacao, rubber, tea, oil
palm and cardamon require a high uniform rainfall but the availability of
moisture can be controlled by irrigation. Because of supplementary water
requirements to produce these crops in many areas, it is recommended that
cacao be grown in suitable forest lands and intercropped with pepper and/
or nutmeg.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
43.       Tea and rubber are regulated by statutory boards which also provide
and arrange for finance. When refinance for these crops is requested from
ARC, it always consults to obtain a technical opinion as to suitability of
soils, rainfall, temperatures, etc. in the project area.
Dairy and Poultry
44.       There is a general lack of enthusiasm by lending institutions for
small (backyard type) dairy and poultry loans except as part of organized
schemes where management and supervision are available. CB experience
so far has not been good, thus farmers and bankers approach any such pro-
grams with extreme caution.
45.       Small scale unorganized dairying and poultry suffer from lack of
management skills necessary to maintain healthy high production dairy cows
or poultry. Native dairy stock only produce 500 to 600 liters of milk per
lactation (18 months to 2 years) and crossbreeds 1,500 and 2,000 liters per
lactation (15 to 18 months). At these levels of production dairy is con-
sidered a poor investment.
46.       Experience with small scale poultry, less than 2,000 birds, has
been unsatisfactory with annual production ranging from 150 to 200 eggs
per bird; mortality rates are high and profits marginal at best. Laying
flocks of 5,000 and more birds are becoming popular and the success rate
is much higher as owners usually hire an experienced farm manager; produc-
tion of 220 eggs and more per bird are common.
47.       There will be some scope for financing organized dairy and poultry
schemes, but it will be slow to develop. Poultry has better prospects be-
cause of the trend in scale and the investment required in equipment, land
and buildings. Reportedly small scale dairy, as often undertaken, requires
minimal investment.  Some farmers purchase crossbreed stock, but many small
farmers simply use artificial insemination to upgrade existing stock; thus
credit is not generally a constraint on small scale dairy development. 1/
48.       Cost of poultry feed has increased 60% over the past 18 months
and appears to be levelling off. Some large producers grind and mix their
own feed at savings of 10 to 15%; discounts of up to 5% are granted by some
mills for quantities of one ton or more. The price of poultry and eggs
has increased 45%, and the farmer has thus recovered from the normal lag
between prices of inputs and prices he receives for his produce. The price
of day-old chicks has remained virtually unchanged, and veterinary services
in most cases are stable (provided free by most hatcheries). Structural
steels and asbestos roofing are in short supply, and in Karnataka, prices
1/   Full details of dairy project evaluation and farm models are given in
the recent Karnataka Dairy Project Appraisal (Report No. 431a-IN dated
May 21, 1974).



ANNEX 5
Page 10
have increased 25% or more; however some of the increased cost of construc-
tion can be avoided by using alternative materials such as concrete, clay
tile and wood.
49.       Feed is the predominate factor representing two-thirds of the
total production cost. A straight comparison between feed, poultry and egg
prices shows that farmers are as well or better off now than 18 months ago.
Profits vary from year to year depending primarily on the relative price of
feed and eggs. Medium and large scale producers (1,000 to 10,000 birds),
with good management, are able to obtain reasonable profits even with the high
increase in costs of feeds.
Other Categories for Diversified Lending
50.       Details of typical storage and marketing schemes are available
from appraisal reports of on-going IDA projects of Bihar and Karnataka. 1/
Projects in these categories, and forestry, fisheries and sericulture are
normally relatively large.
51.       A sericulture scheme under consideration in Karnataka is a case
in point. India is the world's fifth largest producer of silk but lags far
behind the leaders in terms of yield and quality. The labor requirement
which to other producing countries is a deterrent to production is an in-
centive in India, with 150,000 families engaged in the cultivation of silk-
worms, and up to two million employed directly or indirectly in the sericul-
ture industry. India's 1969/70 export of silk and silk products was Rs 174
million; Karnataka accounts for 80% of the total production. The Fourth
Plan target for Karnataka of 1.4 million kg of raw silk was exceeded in
1971/72 with the production of 1.8 million kg. The Fifth Plan calls for
more than doubling the national raw silk production to 4.5 million kg with
an expected value of Rs 875 million. The Sericulture Department in Karnataka
has a program for the development of sericulture with a total investment
(10 years) of Rs 800 million.
52.       IDA credit for minor irrigation has and will continue to include
mulberry gardens. Since 1968 LDB have made loans for development of wells
for silk growers; for example, one PLDB in Karnataka has financed 200 out
of 900 wells solely for sericulture. Financing of other components could
be under a general line of credit, but if a statewide program amounting to
Rs 800 million is to be implemented it should be a separate IDA appraisal.
53.       Price and demand for silk on the internal and export markets are
strong and are expected to remain high.
1/   Bihar Agricultural Markets Report No. PA-114a dated February 8, 1972
and Mysore Agricultural Wholesale Markets Report No. 44a-IN dated
March 7, 1973.



ANNEX 5
Page 11
54.       Costs of cultivations for some categories proposed for diversified
agricultural lending are given in Table 5. For convenience of comparison
and probable wide range of project sizes, these models are based on a one-
ha unit.
Fisheries
55.       Schemes for development of fisheries are normally of the integrated
type involving catching or production of fish; processing and marketing, for
both inland and offshore operations.
56.       Inland fisheries schemes include development of cultural waters,
repairing of tanks and ponds, reclamation of shallow waters for fish culture,
equipment and facilities for raising fingerlings and rearing and harvesting
fish. Processing and marketing facilities may be provided where required.
The project area must be carefully selected to provide suitable water for
fish culture, together with adequate storage, transport and marketing facili-
ties to make the operation profitable.
57.       Offshore fishery schemes include fishing boats and their equipment,
including motors, fishing tackle and nets. They provide for storage, pro-
cessing and marketing facilities as part of the project, if adequate facili-
ties are not available.
Storage and Marketing
58.       Schemes for development of storage and marketing usually include
construction of warehouses as determined by the Central Warehousing Corpora-
tion. These warehouses are used for the storage of farm produce and farm
inputs--seeds, fertilizer, herbicides, pesticides and equipment. Warehouse
units may be organized to act as marketing agents to purchase or store and
market farmers' produce and inputs, and may include provision of transpor-
tation for the collection and distribution of produce and inputs as well as
packaging, grading and marketing equipment. Their main function, however,
is to provide safe and controlled storage facilities for farmers to enable
them to take advantage of seasonal fluctuations in prices and reduce losses
during the holding period.
59.       In recent years the rate of growth of production has been greater
than the rate of development of storage and marketing facilities. For
example, Punjab has a scientific standard storage foodgrain capacity of
1.2 million tons and an expected production of 8.0 million tons for the
1973/74 crop season. Problems of storage and marketing facilities apply
to all categories of farm produce and not only foodgrains.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Consumption/Production And Import of Fertilizer in India
(M tons)
N                          P20                       K20
Consump-   Produc-            Consump-   Produc-            Consump-
Date      tion       tion      Import   tion       tion       Import   tion       Import
1972-73       1.8       1.1       0.7       0.6       0.3       0.2        0.3       0.3
1973-74       1.8       1.1       0.7       0.6       0.4       0.2        0.3       0.3
1974-75       1.7       1.2       0.5       0.6       0.4       0.2       0.3        0.3
1975-76    3.0-3.3      2.3       1.2       1.1       0.8       0.3        0.6       o.6
1976-77    3.3-3.7      2.8       1.1    1.1-1.2      0.9       0.4        0.7       0.7
1977-78    3.6-4.1      3.6       0.9    1.2-1.4      1.1       0.4        0.7       0.7
1978-79    3.9-4.3      3.5       0.4    1.4-1.6      1.1       0.4        0.8       0.8
May 31, 1974



ANMIEX 5
Table 2
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Irrigation Wells
Anticipated Achievement  at June 30, 1974
(thousands)
Private      State(deep)   Electrified
State             Dug Wells    Tubewells    Tubewells         Pumps
Andhra Pradesh           600.0        30.0           -            253.0
Bihar                    249.6        25.0           1.8          100.5
Gujarat                  610.0         1.5           1.4          105.0
Haryana                   31.0       162.0           1.1          135.0
Jamr.u & Kashmir           6.o         -              .1             .4
Karnataka                350.0           .7          -            190.0
Kerala                     5.0         1.0                         38.0
1Madhya Pradesh          700.0         1.2            .1          130.0
MIharashtra              764.5           .4          _            315.0
Orissa                    40.0          .1            .3          125.0
Punjab                   160.0       162.0           .9            75.0
Rajasthan                700.0           .6           .1          715.0
Tamil Nadu             1,035.4        50.0
Uttar Pradesh          1,280.5       382.0          12.8          235.0
lJest Bengal               2.9        40.0           2.0            2.0
Others                      .1           .1          -              3.0
Total        6,535.0       856.6         20.6         2,421.9
Source:  C.W. & P.C. (P.W.); R,E. Directorate (July 11, 1973).
May 31, 1974



ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDI'T FROJECT
Villages Electrified as on September 30, 1973
(thousands)
% electrified
State                Total          Number electrified            total
Andhra Pradesh             27.9                  10.0                   36.8
Assam                      20.4                    .8 /a                 4.0
Bihar                      67.7                   9.3 7W                13.7
Gujarat                    18.6                   5.5                   29.2
Haryana                     6.7                   6.7                  100.0
Himachal Pradesh           13.9                   3.6 /c                2195
(16.9)*
Jammu & Kashmir             6.6                    .9 /a                13.2
Kerala                      1.6                   1.3 7W                85.2
Madhya Pradesh             70.4                  10.0 7W                14.3
Maharashtra                35.9                  15.1                   4L.5
Manipur                     1.9                    .2 /d                10.9
Meghalaya                   4.4                    .1 7a                 2.3
Mysore                     26.4                  12.2*                  45.3
(26.8)*
Nagaland                      .8                   .1                   11.8
Crissa                     46.5                   6.5 /d                14.0
Punjab                     11.9                   6.7 7W                55.8
Rajasthan                  32.2                   5.0 7W                15.5
Tarmil Nadu                14.1                  13.8                   97.4
Tripura                     4.9                    .1                    1.9
Uttar Pradesh             112.6                  27.6                   24.4
West Bengal                38.5                   7.? /d                18.8
(States) Total           563.9                142.7                    25.5
(U.Ts) Total             4.6                  1.0                    21.2
(All India)Total          568.5                143.7                    25.5
/a   As of 3/31/73          /d   As of 7/31/73
7W   As of 8/31/73
7W   As of 6/30/73            *   As per 1971 Census
Source:  C.W. & P.C. (P.W.) R.E. Directorate (11/7/1973).
May 31, 1974



ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Coffee Production in India
Season          Arabica           Robusta          Total
- -           (thousand tons)   - --
1963-64            39.1              30.3            69.3
1964-65            42.3              18.6            60.9
1965-66            38.3              25.5            63.9
1966-67            41.8              36.6            78.5
1967-68            37.5              19.8            57.3
1968-69            49.6              23.8            73.4
1969-70            37.8              25.8            63.6
1970-71            58.3              51.9           110.2
1971-72            44.1              24.9            69.0
1972-73            62.0              29.0            91.0 /1
1973-74            50.0              40.0             90.0 /2
/1   Estimate.
72   Blossom estimate.
Source:  Indian Coffee, January 1974, Vol. XXXVIII, No. 1
May 31, 1974



ANNEX 5
Table 5
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Typical Costs of Cultivation of One Ha
(Rs)
I. COCONUT
Year of Cultivation
Operation                                     1      2       3      4       5      6       7      8      9
Land preparation and planting                    800      -      -       -      -      -       -      -
Seedlings (Dept. of Horticulture)                250      -      -       -      -      -       -      -
Irrigation /1                                    350    200    200    200    200    150        50     50
Fertilizer (manure)                              150    150    200    250    250    350    350    350
Plant protection (includes shading)              200      50     50     50    100    100       50     50
Land tax /2                                       50      50     50     50      50     50      50     50
Total   1,800    450    500    550    600    650    500    500
L Irrigation costs decrease as trees become established and reach groundwater.
/2   Land preparation cost charged to inter-crop after year one.  Land assessment will increase
with establishment of a tree crop.
II. ORANGES
Land preparation and planting /1                 550      -      -       -      90    230    250    250
Planting material                                450      -      -       -      -      -       -      -
Irrigation /2                                    200    200    200    250    250    250    250    250
Fertilizer /3                                    350    350    450    600    750    900   1050   1200
Plant protection                                  50      80    110    180    180    200    300    580
Land tax                                          50      50     50      50     50     50      50     50
Total   19650    680    810  1,080  1,320  1,630  149oo  2,330
/1   Land preparation cost charged to inter-crop years 2 through 4, all inter-cropping eliminated
year 7 onward.
/2 Oranges planted on high ground require regular supplementary irrigation.
/3 Manure Rs 5.00/100 kg.
III. MANGOES
Land preparation and planting /1                 600      -      -       -      -       -      -      -
Planting material                                350      -      -       -      -       -      -       -
Irrigation /2                                    300    200    150      -       -      -       -      -       -
Fertilizer                                       450      50    100    250    250    250    300    400    450
Plant protection                                  50      50     50     50      50    100    100    150    200
Land tax                                          50      50     50     50      50     50      50     50      50
Total  1,800    350    350    350    350    400    450    600    700
/1 Mangoes are usually planted on sloping land where inter-cultivation is not practiced.
/2 Supplementary irrigation required only to establish the crop.
IV. ARECANUT
Land preparation and planting /1               3,500    200    200    200    200    150    150    150
Planting material /2                             600      -      -       -      -       -      -       -
Irrigation                                       500    500    500    600    700    700    700    700
Fertilizer                                       700    350    400    450    500    550    700    850
Plant protection                                 150    150    150    200    400    600    600    600
Land tax                                          50      50     50      50     50      50     50     50
Total   5,500  1,250  1,300  1,500  1,850  2,050  2,200  2,350
/1   Includes fencing.
/2 Arecanut normally planted in small plots -- 0.1 to 0.3 ha.
May 31, 1974.



ANNEX 6
Pa~ge 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Training Program and Study
A. Agricultural Refinance Corporation
1.        The organizational structure and staffing of ARC are described
in Annex 4. Its professional staff of 233 is expected to increase about
80% by mid-1978.
Training, Past and Present
2.        Over 90% of ARC's professional staff comes directly from the Agri-
cultural Credit Department (ACD) of the RBI. Before joining ACD, they attend
the RBI Staff Training College at Madras for a course in banking. After join-
ing ARC, their training is brief and confined to orientation. They are in-
troduced to the structure and procedures of ARC, then sent to regioual offices
for brief attachments, and return to head office for their regular work. Re-
fresher courses have not been available. This is satisfactory as a minimum,
but could be improved (para 3).
Future Training
3.        ARC recognizes the urgency of working out a Job-oriented training
program that will meet the needs of increased reliaace on project lending,
diversification of the lending pattern, and greater assistance to the small
farmer. It has outlined broad dimensions of such a program for its own
staff and those of CB and LDB, but not for cooperative banks.
4.        ARC estimates that for its own staff about 20 professionals at
senior-level (senior directors and directors) and about 30 at middle-level
(deputy directors and senior and junior analysts) need training and can be
spared for it over the next four years. Junior-level personnel, by these
definitions, does not exist at ARC.
5.        Officers would be sent, according to thelr level, to one of two
new courses to be started at the College of Agricultural Banking (CAB),
Poona. These courses would contain a heavy element of project appraisal
methods and procedures. Six senior officers are coming to Washington for
about three months each to observe and participate in IBRD appraisal methods.
The first two arrived in October, 1974 and joined appraisal missions in
other countries as part of their training.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
6.        There is no special training planned for sub-professional staff,
even though they hold university degrees and are eligible for promotion
to professional levels. ARC takes the view that staff below junior analyst
level do not perform functions that call for special training.
B. College of Agricultural Banking, Poona
7.        Because CAB has been designated by RBI as the chief agricultural
banking training institution to handle senior and middle-level staff
training of ACD, ARC, and LDB, its capabilities are crucial to any train-
ing program under the project.   Currently, it also handles some training
of CB and cooperative banks' staff. RBI expects CAB later to have also
a guiding role in training junior-level CB and LDB personnel.
8.        CAB is maintained to conduct courses for professional staffs of:
(a) cooperative banks in short-term agricultural banking; and (b) RBI agen-
cies, CB and LDB in long-term agricultural banking. This second objective
is of direct relevance to IDA lending operations.
Present Activities and Facilities
9.        CAB offers eleven different courses regularly.  With repeat and
special courses, it offers about 20 courses each year at Poona. Of the 21
courses in fiscal 1973-74, ten were for CB or LDB staff. Courses elsewhere
have so far been short and few, and conducted almost entirely for coopera-
tive banks.
10.       From its opening in October, 1969 to January, 1974, about 2,300
officials had been trained by CAB in 80 courses at Poona and another 250
in 8 courses elsewhere. About 1,000 of these officials were from CB and
LDB; the remainder were from cooperative banks. The proportion of CB and
LDB trainees has increased in more recent years, however, as special courses
were held for LDB staff from states in which IDA projects were established.
11.       Although other courses have not been cut out, emphasis in the
curriculum has moved to general and special courses in production-oriented,
project-oriented lending (as contrasted with bankability-type lending) as
IDA projects in ten states got under way. These courses are called Project
Planning and Appraisal (PPA), and the 17 held to date have trained almost
500 staff members of CB and LDB, about four-fifths from LDB.
12.       These 400 trainees are only a small proportion of total LDB pro-
fessional staff throughout India, of which there are probably less than
25,000 (including primary level). Not all LDB professional staff members
are involved in project evaluation so directly that they should receive
training or refresher training in that subject, but those trained ought
to be more than the present 2%.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
13.       CB and LDB staff also receive training at CAB in agricultural
finance through three other courses: (a) for LDB managerial staff and
CB middle-level staff together; (b) for CB senior staff; and (c) for CB
middle-level staff. Course (a) is eight weeks long, including two weeks
of field work; it covers organizational, managerial, and legal aspects,
problems of funding, and financial operations, and gives attention to
lending policies and procedures, with emphasis on production-oriented lending.
Courses (b) and (c) are two weeks and six weeks long, respectively; trainees
review the lending structure in agriculture and the place of CB within it,
the appraisal of schemes, and certain legal aspects.
14.       The training of greatest relevance to the IDA lending program is
the PPA course mentioned earlier.   At least three-fourths of the four-week
course is devoted to the theory and practice of the calculation of incre-
mental income as the core of loan appraisal as applied to various types of
investment. About one-sixth of the total course-time is devoted to teaching
techniques. The course has already received periodic advice from EDI and
is not assessed for substance or method in this report.
15.       Physical facilities at CAB are heavily, though not quite fully
utilized. Annual capacity is about 650 trainees, based upon two constraints:
(a) a maximum class-size of 30 for pedagogical reasons; and (b) a capacity
at any one time of 90 for dormitory reasons. If maximum theoretical
capacity (90 trainees for 52 weeks) is reduced by 10% for unfilled classes
and 10% for vacation time, maximum practical capacity would be about 3,700
man-weeks. Actual training time in scheduled classes is about 3,000 man-
weeks (80% of maximum practical capacity). This does not mean 20% waste,
because professional conferences and the like are held at the College and
usually involve faculty members. The facilities are about to be expanded.
16.       Beside the Principal, there are nine full-time faculty members,
selected by the Services Board of RBI from among experienced RBI staff.
They are posted for 3 to 5 years, and before taking up their duties undergo
a short course in teaching techniques at either the National Institute of
Bank Management (NIBM) or the Bankers Training College (BTC) in Bombay.
The assignment, which is not regarded as choice or prestigious, is somewhat
removed from the stream of RBI career advancement.
Assessment of Present Situation
17.       Physical facilities, which are shared about equally with the
Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Co-operative Management (VMI) are
very good. Teaching is of the standard variety in the old-fashioned format.
Even though some of the classrooms were recently set up in seminar formation
to encourage student participation, more is needed to overcome habitual
restraints. The most advanced teaching aids are missing, but they are
peripheral to the essence of good teaching at this level in these subjects.
Two elements central to the quality of instructions have not been assessed:
(a) the knowledge and teaching skills of the instructors; and (b) the
intelligence and receptiveness of the trainees.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
18.       The Report of the "Informal Committee on Training" (appointed
by ARC in 1973) recommended an expanded program, and delineated rough
outlines of a new curriculum to fulfill the needs of a greater number and
variety of trainees. It also recommended strengthening the present faculty,
both as to numbers and specialization, and favored greater use of guest
faculty.
19.       Another committee, the Datey Committee, was formed in September
1973, to review:  (a) the need for expansion of hostel and other amenities
on the college campus; and (b) the coverage and syllabus of the existing
College courses in the light of the present and potential requirements,
and to suggest the necessary revisions. Detailed recommendations are con-
tained in its report published in January, 1975.
Proposed Future Activities
20.       Expansion will begin in the near future.  VMI is committed to move
out of the campus it shares with CAB; this is probable by late 1975. Thlis
move would double CAB's hostel capacity and nearly double classroom capacity
without new construction. An extension to the hostel building that would
add another 50% to the total capacity is contemplated. If this expansion
of present hostel space were effected, classroom space would catch up if
temporary buildings were erected, or if space were rented from the adjoining
Agricultural College. Another method would be to alter the ratio among num-
bers of trainees from cooperative banks, CB and LDB, and the comparative
length of courses for each. The recent national Report of the Informal
Expert Group on Co-operative Education, Training and Research (March 1974)
contains sweeping recommendations, but, those regarding CAB are very unlikely
to be accepted. The Group recommends that RBI transfer CAB to a new nation-
wide Council for Co-operative Education, Research and Training that would be
dominated by the National Co-operative Union of India.
21.       CAB's faculty is to be expanded by adding six full-time members
during 1975/76. Part-time or visiting faculty is available from other
institutions, such as the Management Faculty of the University of Poona.
22.       One of the expansion issues is whether:  (a) CAB should take all
of the expanded load; (b) CAB should take the main load and a few CAB-type
courses should be added to other institutions such as the Madras facility
of RBI or the National Training Centre at Pusa; (c) out-station courses
should be multiplied; or (d) a combination of these solutions should be
adopted. Solution (b), with limitations, was agreed at negotiations.
(See para 45(a) of this Annex.)
23.       Two new courses proposed by the Informal Committee (one for senior
officers and the other for middle-level officers) would be the heart of the
curriculum. Both would cover appraisal methods, promotion o.- new business,
project formulation, documentation, disbursement, post-disbursement verifica-
tion, repayment, recovery of overdues, and financial management. One feature



ANNEX 6
Page 5
not included in the present PPA course would be the addition of "overall
managerial appraisal", defined as "a study of the various factors such as
the ability of the financing bank to dispense credit and supervise its use
in the required manner and of the concerned government department to execute
a given project, interdepartmental coordination, attitudes of farmers to
adoption of innovations, quality of the extension service, etc." The Com-
mittee also suggested adding two new subjects to the senior-level course only:
(a) financial management; and (b) "the rudiments of business management
science, which would not be an elaborate course in management as such, but
an orientation to the modern science of management, with particular reference
to the functions that senior officers perform". Officers of both levels
would also receive enough training in teaching techniques to enhance their
ability to train others.
24.       Neither the Informal Committee nor the Datey Committee are en-
tirely clear as to whether there will be changes in the PPA course, which
is the heart of the curriculum from IDA's standpoint, that course should
be continued in its present form until changes are agreed between IDA and
ARC when the training program is sent to IDA for approval.
25.       The quality of faculty and trainees, above all, should be assessed;
this will depend largely upon selection procedures and career rewards. Alumni
should be sampled to learn whether they have had any substantial effect upon
the operations of their LDB - why and in what ways.
26.       Expansion can be carried out quickly and without much upheaval but
unless expansion in numbers is accompanied by insistence that some of the
trainees be capable of training others later and are given the opportunity
to do so, expansion of CAB will be much less productive than it could be.
C. Land Development Banks
27.       Although much training has been and is being done, LDB training
needs remain great, although no figures are available to indicate their
extent. ARC's estimates cover only senior and middle-level staff.
"raining for Senior and Middle-Level Staff
2&.       LDB professional staff can be layered into:  (a) senior (equiv-
alent to senior directors and directors of ARC); (b) middle-level (deputy
directors and senior and junior analysts of ARC); and (c) junior-level
(all others having no analogy at ARC). This discussion refers only to
(a) and (b).
29.       ARC based its estimates upon:  (a) the minimum number who should
be trained in order that the five-year lending program could succeed and
(b) practical considerations, such as the feasibility of releasing staff
long enough to receive training, the capacity of training institutions,
and realistic financial allocations.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
30.       The result was an estimate of about 550 to be trained over four
years, 1/ made up of 150 senior and 400 middle-level LDB staff. These,
plus an estimated 1,100 for CB, 130 for RBI and ARC together, and 300 for
other government departments make a total of 2,080. All would receive
training at CAB, according to ARC's tentative plan.
31.       For LDB this would mean a substantial injection of training at
significant levels.  The course for senior staff (two-three weeks) would be
designed along the lines recommended by the Informal Committee (summarized
in para 32 below). The course at middle-level (three-four weeks) would be
similar in coverage but different in emphasis. An important distinction
between senior and middle-level courses should be that the former should
seek to provide a general orientation, whereas the middle-level course
shoud give emphasis on actual job performance. Added emphasis should be
on improved methods of preventing and recovering overdues. Both courses
would be on some form of the PPA course, as yet undetermined (para 23).
Training for Junior-Level Staff
32.       A study in each state is required to determine training require-
ments at this level, as no estimates are available of numbers trained or
to be trained. Not only would junior-level have to be defined in each
LDB, but categories critical to loan appraisal and recovery would have
to be designated. In any case, the PPA course at CAB should not exclude
the type of junior LDB staff which now attends, and it should not be
substantially altered until alternative arrangements are made for equiv-
alent training.
33.       The Informal Committee expects that middle-level trainees at CAB
will upon returning to their LDB, train junior colleagues. For several
reasons (mainly the necessity of giving all training in the local language)
training for junior officials would have to be organized locally by each
lending institution. CAB would: (a) make its facilities available to
faculty of whatever agencies were handling training of junior officers,
in order to promote uniformity of instruction; and (b) help plan, guide
and supervise such training. The substance of training would be project
appraisal methods, and the main target would be the equivalent of LDB
supervisors, technical supervisors, inquiry officers, and inspectors.
1/   This time-period was projected by ARC in March 1974, although the
Informal Committee report of November 1973 states that if lending
goals are to be achieved training for senior and middle-level
officials will have to be completed within the next two to three
years. The estimates of numbers are so rough that time-goals will
also have to be considered rough.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
ARC feels that a three to four week course, full-time, would be advisable.
This is unrealistic under present staffing conditions in the states, but
shorter courses and refresher course are possibilities.
D. Commercial Banks
34.       Although the volume of lending for agriculture by CB is minor
compared with that of either LDB or cooperative banks, there were about
3,000 agriculture graduates on the staff of CB on January 1, 1974, and the
number is increasing rapidly.
Training, Past and Present
35.       A massive program for training CB staff was laid out by NIBM in
1971 but there has not been an independent evaluation of its progress and
effectiveness. Training of CB staff is voluminous and widespread, but
agricultural banking is only a small part of it. Training takes place in
four main ways:
(a) in Staff Training College and Centers run by
larger CB for their own staff. There are 76
of these located in virtually every large city
in India;
(b) in short courses and seminars conducted by NIBM
throughout the country;
(c) small numbers at the CAB, Poona; and
(d) small numbers at the BTC, Bombay.
36.       The bulk of training in the 76 CB Staff Training Colleges and
Centers covers CB operations of all kinds, and focuses very little upon
agricultural lending.
37.       Training of trainers, which includes preparation of teaching
materials for widespread use, is a special interest of NIBM. Three courses
were organized and/or conducted by NIBM for faculties of Training Colleges
and Centers of individual CB in 1973, and three more Colleges were assisted
in training the faculties of Training Centers. NIBM has also begun "forums"
for trainers in the banking industry in Bombay, Calcutta and Delhi, to
exchange among trainers at Training Colleges and Centers their experience
with methods and materials.
38.       At CAB only four of the eleven regular courses (excluding refresher
and out-station courses) are open to officers of CB; two of these are exclu-
sively for CB officers. These are in Agricultural Finance: (a) a six-week
course for middle-level officers given twice a year; and (b) a ten-day course



ANNEX 6
Page 8
for senior officers given annually. The two mixed courses for CB and LDB
staff are given annually: (a) an eight-week course for managerial staff of
PLDB and middle-level officers of CB; and (b) the four-week PPA course for
unspecified levels.
39.       The mixed courses have averaged one-third CB and two-thirds LDB
participants over the years, and only about 150 CB officers have attended.
The exclusively CB courses have trained about 150 middle-level officers and
about 110 senior officers. A total of about 410 personnel have attended
the CAB to the end of 1973. At the current rate, only about 110 CB offi-
cers receive CAB training each year, and 30 of those are exposed for only
10 days. An out-station course of one week was conducted at Calcutta in
August, 1973, for 31 middle-level CB officers (in the Crop Loan System),
and other courses are being considered.
40.       The BTC run by the RBI is a very significant institution which
trains large numbers of CB staff in many fields of banking, including devel-
opment banking and credit appraisal methods, but has no special course in
agricultural lending. Its annual two-week course for training of trainers
is a recent addition. This mixed new faculty members of the Training Col-
leges and Centers with experienced faculty members to discuss both theory
and practice.
Future Training
41.       Training needs of CB in agricultural lending are great.  The only
projections available, covering the next four years, are those of ARC. ARC
estimates about 300 senior and 800 middle-level staff to be trained, all of
whom would be accommodated at the CAB when it expands. This would be about
275 trainees per year (over half of the present CAB student body in numbers
though less than half in man weeks).
42.       NIBM will continue to provide its present services and is looking
ahead to expanded needs. Agricultural lending will continue to benefit only
from general strengthening of CB management and from training of trainers
and preparation of teaching materials, as apparently a large systematic
input of material in agriculture is not planned. The 1974 program con-
sists of workshops in teaching technology, intensive skill development pro-
grams for specialist trainers in specific fields, and continuation of the
brief "forums".
43.       BTC is a very active institution and has an ambitious but carefully
considered program for 1974-76, and a less specific but consistent one for
1976-79. This program, like BTC's current activities, is designed to
strengthen bank organization and management in general, including staff
development. It does not indicate any particular interest in agricultural
lending as compared to other sectors.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
E. Groundwater Training (See Annex 2, paras 45 and 46)
F. Conclusions and Recommendations
Conclusions
44.       Institutional shortcomings are the strongest deterrent to better
CB and LDB performance in lending and recoveries. The high rate of overdues
is frequently not traceable to natural conditions such as drought, and
future concentration should be on organizational and staffing problems if
the trend towards reduced performance is to be reversed. Training is the
most feasible approach, when combined with organizational improvements. Even
an enormous effort devoted to training, however, would have little impact
on the central problem of overdues without one prerequisite: the education
of borrowers, extension staff, administrors, and political leaders in the
essential disciplines of agricultural credit. Training in the techniques
of lending and recovery will not improve the LDB system if non-technical
considerations override technical viability.
Recommendations
45.       The problem of improving lending techniques should be attacked
by training of LDB staff at all levels. The slowdown in lending activity
caused mainly by the energy shortage provides an opportunity for quickening
the pace of training activities. rwo concurrent actions are recommended:
(a) An intensified training program at senior and
middle-levels of LDB and, with a lower priority,
other banks and agencies mentioned in para 4.12(a)
of the main report (Appendix 1 of this annex). ARC
would be responsible for the program.
(b)  A thorough study of training requirements of LDB junior-
level staff (Appendix 2 of this annex). A detailed plan
for carrying out the study is required. Outline
Terms of Reference for the study are contained in
Appendix 3.
46.       Following the study, the resulting programs should be approved
by the agencies concerned, including IDA, and be implemented under the
direction of ARC over the next two years.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Program for Training LDB Senior and Middle-Level Staff
1.        This program was designed before:  (a) agreement was reached
between IDA and ARC that, to a limited extent, SCB and other agencies
mentioned in para 4.12(a) of the main report could be included in the
training program and that certain other institutions besides CAB could
be used, with limitations, for the program, and (b) the publication of
the Datey Committee Report in January, 1975. The program will, therefore,
have to be transformed when the detailed program is submitted by ARC (para
8.02(c)).
2.        A rapidly stepped-up training program is required to bring 800
LDB staff members at these levels to CAB for the courses proposed by ARC
over two years instead of the 550 for four years tentatively projected
by ARC.  The following plan is feasible under the assumptions stated
below the table:
Year 1    Year 2    Total
LDB                                     375      425        800
ARC and RBI                              60       70        130
Government Agencies (GOI and states) 130         170        300
CB (instructors only)                    10       10         20
Total                        575      675      1,250
Assumptions:  (a) Year 1 would commence July 1975; (b) by Year 1, CAB would
have increased its capacity from about 3,000 to about 3,500 trainee-weeks
through scheduling devices; (c) by Year 2, CAB would have increased its
capacity to at least 6,000 trainee-weeks; (d) CB trainees would be exclu-
sively trainers in CB Training Colleges and Centers; (e) several courses
would be substantially shortened and some eliminated; and (f) LDB would
release enough staff members for training.
3.        Capacity figures mean little unless given in trainee-weeks, but
these are not available by source of trainee. However, the numbers proposed
above are feasible if senior staff receive a two to three-week course and
middle-level staff a three to four-week course. Year 1 would require about
2,000 trainee-weeks and Year 2 about 2,300 trainee-weeks. Present annual



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
total use of CAB is about 3,000 trainee-weeks, and present maximum practical
capacity as high as 3,700. If the VMI moves by summer 1975, the physical
capacity would be greatly increased (to about 6,000) even without further
construction or rental space. Faculty would be the constraint, and steps
have already been taken to appoint more members.
4.        Since the number of LDB trainees would be increased, cooperative
banks would have to withhold many trainees and/or cut the length of their
CAB ten-week courses to the length of their six-week courses, because they
now use about 2,200 trainee-weeks of the 3,000 total. CB would also face
an annual loss of about 100 as compared with the present number of trainees,
although the present CB trainee level might not have to be cut back if CAB
uses its full capacity. Co-operative bank trainees might be taken care of
later with the expected expansion of CAB.
5.        Individual class size should not be increased to more than 35.
6.        Out-station courses have advantages and disadvantages compared with
those at Poona. However, on balance, it is more effective to hold almost
all senior and middle-level courses at Poona.
7.        A study should be made by CAB to learn the effectiveness of PPA and
managerial courses given at CAB in past years. Particular attention should
be given to finding out what has become of those graduates of CAB who were
expected to train others after returning to their jobs.
8.        CAB should consider adding a seminar on Comparative Recovery Tech-
niques. This would enable officers of LDB, cooperative banks and CB to
discuss their experience with the prevention and collection of overdues
under the varying conditions in their localities. This sort of seminar
causes participants to think out t:heir problems and also tends to raise
staff confidence by the feeling of shared professionalism.
9.        The greatest hazard facing fulfillment of these training goals is
the LDB themselves. Releasing about 400 officials every year (an average of
20 officials annually from each LDB) at these levels will be difficult and
will require strong state government commitment. CAB could handle the courses
necessary to meet the proposed goals; about 12 courses would be solely for LDB
staff at senior and middle-levels.
10.       Close coordination by CAB and LDB must be maintained in order that
throughout any year the lowest possible number of staff members would be
absent at any one time. Strong motivation toward training would also be
necessary in LDB management.
11.       Planning and coordination of the intensified training program would
be the responsibility of ARC.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 3
12.       Cost estimates would cover the extra expense of adjustments at CAB
caused by added volume of training; these would be mainly for faculty, staff,
and foodstuffs. They should include also the cost of a study by CAB of past
and future graduates of certain courses. An ample figure would be US$0.2 mil-
lion equivalent covering the two years. This does not include the large
cost of alternative training for CB and SCB staffs who would be restricted
in numbers at CAB by the new priority given LDB staffs.
1/   This does not include the large cost of alternative training for CB
and cooperative bank staffs who would be pushed out of CAB by the new
priority given LDB staffs.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
A Study of Training Requirements for LDB Junior-Level Staff
1.        There is insufficient basis for drawing conclusions and making
recommendations for LDB staff training at the junior-level, but because
this will be central to the effort to reverse the adverse trend in LDB
activities a study is needed, and is included as part of this project.
Outline Terms of Reference are at Appendix 3 and detailed arrangements
for its planning and execution would be agreed at negotiations.
2.        The objective of the study, which would cover all LDB, would be
to learn what significant training is needed for professional personnel
below middle-level. It should commence within three months of the date of
effectiveness of the credit and be completed six month, later.  A further
six months would be needed to consider the recommendations, agree on action,
and start the program.
3.        The study would be under the control of ARC.  LDB would conduct
individual studies within their own organizations, mainly with their own
staff but with such outside assistance as necessary. ARC would fund the
extra work of LDB needed for the study after reaching an arrangement with
each one.   The process would basically be a self-study by each LDB but
considerable standardization and coordination would have to be enforced.
4.        Estimated cost for the study is US$0.2 million equivalent.  This
would cover direct staff costs of ARC and LDB in planning and making the
study, plus cost of any assistance from other institutions and individuals
and direct cost of reaching agreement on a program of action among the
agencies concerned.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Study of Training Requirements for LDB Junior-Level Staff
Outline Terms of Reference
These Terms of Reference are based on the assumptions that:
(a) all LDB (both federal and unitary in structure) will be covered by
the study; and (b) a program of training for senior and middle-level LDB
staff had already been agreed upon by those authorized to execute it.
Objective of the Study
1.        To determine:
(a) the extent and type of training needed for junior-level
professional staff necessary to increase efficiency of
lending and recovery operations;
(b) the feasibility of providing the needed training within
two years after an agreed program commences; and
(c) a program for conducting such training.
Preliminary Study
2.        To be made by ARC:
(a) determine the scope of the main study;
(b) consult the following concerning their potential input to
the main study:
(i) all LDB;
(ii) ACD, CAB, BTC, and NIBM; and
(iii) any other agencies or individuals deemed necessary.
(c) define the meaning of "junior-level staff" in each LDB, in
terms of specific positions;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 2
(d) estimate time and manpower requirements for the main
study and its cost to participating agencies; and
(e) work out a financing formula with participating agencies.
Main Study
3.        To be directed by ARC and made by LDB and other participating
agencies. For each LDB:
(a)  identification of the critical categories of junior staff
engaged in loan appraisal and recovery;
(b)  assessment of the staff situation in each critical category,
currently and in terms of expected near-future changes in
work-load;
(c)  job analysis, to the extent practicable, for each of the
critial categories. This should not be confined to technical
skills in the narrow sense, but should include also skills
needed for dealing successfully with borrowers;
(d)  assessment of the competence of personnel in each critical
category to perform the job expected. This should not be
a full personnel survey, but a judgemental study based on
spot-checks, performance data, and the like;
(e)  determination of the gap between the job to be done and
existing competence to perform it, in terms of subject-matter,
by levels and categories of staff position;
(f)  determination of whether the significant gaps found can be
bridged by training:
(i) if not - why untrainable staff, subjects that can be
learned only by experience, or other reasons?;
(ii) if so, the types of training that would bridge those
gaps;
(g)  an evaluation of current and recent training of staff in the
critical categories, with proposals for its continuation or
improvement;
(h)  Proposals for future training, to include:
(i) subjects and levels;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page  3
(ii) numbers in each critical category to be trained in
each subject at each level;
(iii) methods by which this can be done, including on-the-job
opportunities, instruction in SLDB or PLDB offices, and
instruction at institutions within or outside the state;
(iv) source of facilities and training materials,
including the feasibility of centralized
(out-of-state) preparation of certain materials
for translation;
(v)  availability of suitable trainees;
(vi) source of instructors, including any training
needed;
(vii) cost estimates, including the widely variable
cost of preparing instructors and training
materials;
(viii)  time and phasing estimates.
(i)  recommendation for a training program for each LDB, with
cost and time estimates for carrying out such program.
4.        Work Program
(a)  While other agencies (para 2(b)) would assist in the
study and some would later assist with the training
or the training of instructors, the bulk of the work
would be done by ARC and the LDB, with CAB closely
involved.
(b)  ARC would direct the study, using at least one staff
member full time. He would spend most of his time in the
field with the LDB. Within six months after completion
of the study ARC would reach agreement on its recommenda-
tions with all agencies concerned.
(c)  LDB would, after reaching agreement with ARC on minimum
standardization of the job, perform a self-study covering
the points outlined in para 3 above. The larger LDB
should assign an appropriate staff member full time to
conduct the study, with whatever assistance might be needed
from other staff and from local agencies, including the



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 4
university and the state government. The result would be
proposals to ARC for training programs, with estimates of
cost and timing. LDB would then agree, with ARC, the training
programs to be carried out.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Proposal Outlining Objectives, Nature and Scope of Project Evaluation System
1.        To provide a useful feedback for the improvement of future project
planning, preparation and appraisal, and for the overall economic impact,
monitoring and evaluating project financial and economic benefits would
include the following:
(a) Comparison between the ex-ante assessment with the
ex-post realization (between actual and anticipated)
of project/scheme benefits at the farm level. Sig-
nificant divergences between the two (e.g. investment
benefits that have not been fully realized and/or the
undue slowness for full benefits to be realized) would
call for identification and analysis of the important
causative factors, viz. lack of or inadequate extension
services, supply of key inputs, production credit (and
their effect on output), and marketing facilities,
depressed farm prices, changes to a less profitable
cropping pattern and other resource constraints.
(b) Assessment of the financial and physical progress of
project implementation, and where implementation is
being impeded, to identify and analyze the factors
responsible, viz. type of lending institution (LDB
or CB) and examination of their operations on project
investments with respect to:
(i) Procedures followed and arrangements for loan
sanction and disbursement of project funds;
the time taken to perform these activities and
reasons for any undue delay where they may occur;
(ii) Farmer contribution (downpayment);
(iii) Arrangements with suppliers of project investment
goods;
(iv) Arrangements for loan recovery;
(v) Arrangements for technical guidance to ensure
quality of project investment execution.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(c) Assessment of the overall economic impact (discount-
ing transfer payments) of a scheme, including secondary
benefits, and contribution towards the economic develop-
ment of the project area in terms of income increases
and distribution as well cls employment generation.
Procedure and Methodology
2.        Information to assess projiect impact at the farm level (para 1)
would be through the use of questionnaires to obtain the basic physical
and financial input/output and other relevant data from a sample of borrowers
(beneficiaries) in each selected project/scheme. 1/ Pre-investment data
would be available in the lending institutions. Post-investment data would
be collected four times a year, at planting and harvesting for each of the
kharif and rabi seasons, up to the year of full development. A copy of
every completed questionnaire containing all relevant pre- and post-invest-
ment data would be sent to IDA for analysis (ARC would carry out its own
analysis). If it is necessary to build up a system for obtaining reliable
baseline farm data, a small group (sub-sample) from the same sample of
farmer beneficiaries could be used to keep a monthly record of the required
data for at least one year.
3.        To compare the project impact (particularly with respect to the
benefits derived and loan repayment performance) of different size hold-
ings, the sample would be stratified according to three or more relevant
size categories. Sample size (about 10% to 20% of borrowers) and sampling
would ensure representiveness with respect to population and different
size farms, and would be adequate for quantifying benefits and other data.
4.        Data to assess the financial and physical progress of project
implementation (para 1) would be obtained from the lending institutions
and the relevant supporting agencies. Such data would also be sent to
IDA. Inter-scheme as well as inter-lending institutional comparisons,
especially between LDB and CB, would provide useful information to help
minimize bottlenecks and operational difficulties.
5.        Assessment of the overall economic impact of a scheme (para 1)
would involve collection of appropriate indicators, before and after
investment at full development, relating to the socio-economic conditions
in a given scheme area.
Organization
6.        ARC would set up a department in its head office headed by an
agricultural economist/statistician, assisted by a statistician experienced
in farm survey/management work and other supporting staff. It would also
1/   IDA project or non-IDA scheme.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
set up a unit in each of its 15 regional offices headed by an agricultural
economist experienced in farm surveys/management, assisted by supporting
staff.
7.        Supporting staff would include an appropriate number of farm
enumerators. They would be located in the head office and/or dispersed
in the regional offices whichever would be more appropriate. Trained
farm enumerators would be available from RBI's existing cadre, or it could
train newly recruited enumerators for ARC. Build-up of a full complement
of staff for the head office and regional offices must not take more than
two years.
8.        Feedback, to bring out operational and other difficulties or
deficiencies, for helping correct mistakes in time, improving quality
and accuracy of project work, and speeding up project implementation,
would be more useful if evaluation of on-going and completed schemes was
undertaken concurrently.  Also, to arrive at totality of benefits, post
project investment benefits should have stabilized, and effects on farms
should have reached full development stage. Though IDA financed projects
are not yet ready for this type of evaluation, as many are still in different
stages of implementation, ARC may have a few other non-IDA financed com-
pleted schemes at full development stage which could be used for this pur-
pose.
9.        The long term objective would be to cover a wide cross section
of regions and types of projects over several years. However, in view of
the time required for staff build-up and to gain some experience, ARC could
not initiate evaluation work on more than 5 or 6 projects during the next
fiscal year. Selected projects/schemes would include those at varying stages
of implementation and at least one completed project.
10.       The full economic impact of projects/schemes would eventually
be done by ARC, but this would necessarily have to be its future objective,
since preoccupation with evaluating progress and effects on borrowers would
have first priority. Accordingly, for evaluation work on full economic
impact to be initiated in the near future, it would have to be undertaken
by RBI, or any other institution capable of carrying out this type of work.






ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Guidelines for Quarterly and Annual Progress Reports
The purpose of these reports is to provide information on signi-
ficant events which occurred during the reporting period, together with
an evaluation of progress achieved and of the prospects of future pro-
gress. To this end, the information contained in the reports should
cover at least the following aspects of the project:
1.   Quarterly
1-a General Progress of Operations
(A brief report on matters affecting development of the pro-
ject, e.g. staff, government policies, legal or administrative
acts, financial aspects, changes in interest rates, economic
factors).
1-b Status of Project's Loan Applications
(Received, approved, disapproved or withdrawn, under considera-
tion, approved and effective - by individual states and
financing institutions).
1-c Project Funds Disbursements - Withdrawals from IDA
(Accumulated totals and projection for disbursements. Separate
returns for small farmers).
1-d Agricultural Refinance Corporation
(Changes taken place during the reporting period - management,
staff, reorganization, refinancing activities, legislation,
financial).
1-e Land Development Banks - Staff Training and Study
(General Progress Report)
1-f Study of the Problems and Possibilities of a Merger of the
Two Cooperative Systems
(General Progress Report).



ANNEX 8
Page 2
2. Annual
2-a ARC's annual balance sheet, profit and loss statements, auditor's
report to the Board, together with projected budgets, financial
estimates and memoir of ARC's activities during the fiscal
year.
2-b Participating land development banks' and commercial banks'
annual balance sheets, profit and loss statements, auditors
reports to the Boards with specific reference to accounts
and reports on project activities.
2-c  General progress report on the evaluation system.
2-d General report on any other matters which may affect progress
of lending operations or normal development of institutions.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the Joint Committee
to Establish Common Requirements for the Issuance
of LDB Debentures and Guidelines for the Establishment
of a Study Group
A. BACKGROUND
LDB Debentures
1.   (a)  The main source of LDB funds is the sale of debentures.
(b) Control of the issue of debentures is in the hands of the
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for ordinary debentures and the
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) for special
debentures.
Problem
2.        RBI and ARC do not apply the same criteria for the issuance
of special and general debentures. ARC refinances specific schemes which
it appraises; for each scheme it lays down minimum LDB requirements
(financial and technical), ensures that there are adequate supporting
services, and carries out constant supervision through its Regional
Offices. Its criteria is, therefore, generally more comprehensive than
that of RBI whose criteria tends to be governed mainly by the relative
LDB overdue situation and RBI's knowledge of the LDB gained from its
periodic inspections.
3.        LDB may issue general debentures under RBI criteria even
though their overdues position would make them ineligible for issuance of
special debentures under ARC criteria.
Solution
4.        The proposal is to formally establish, as an interim measure, a
committee to bring RBI and ARC requirements closer together, and a study to
recommend a more permanent solution.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
B. COMMITTEE
Es tablishment
5.        The Committee, which would be formally established by GOI, would
be under the chairmanship of RBI.
Objective
6.        The objective of the Committee would be to achieve consistency
in the application of financial standards to LDB in the authorization of
LDB debentures.
7.        In pursuance of this objective the Committee would meet regularly in
the initial stages to formulate the common criteria, and from time to time
thereafter to review them in the light of experience gained in their
implementation.
C. STUDY GROUP
Establishment
8.        The Group should be established by GOI and the Study carried out
jointly by RBI and ARC.
Objective
9.        The Group should examine the current procedures and require-
ments for the issuance of LDB debentures by RBI and ARC, and should make
recommendations as to the best method of controlling future issues with the
objective of reversing the downward trend of LDB performance through common
requirements for the authorization of the issuance of all LDB debentures.
The Group should examine the practical, financial annd legal implications
of each alternative.
Period
12.       The Study should commence not later than April 30, 1975 and
should be completed by not later than July 31, 1976.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Analysis of Sub Project Models
A.   Minor Irrigation Models
1.        Five models from recent IDA agricultural credit projects have been
up-dated, as required, analyzed and are presented below. These models,
representing a typical cross-section by regions and technology are:
(a)  a dug well (DW) in Tamil Nadu;
(b)  a dug-cum-bore well (DBW) in Madhya Pradesh;
(c)  a shallow tubewell (STW) in Haryana;
(d)  a deep tubewell (DTW) in Maharashtra; and
(e)  a river lift scheme (RLS) in West Bengal.
2.        The main steps taken to update these models were:
(a)  Increase of investment and recurrent costs at an annual
rate of 15% from date of appraisal mission to year end
1973;
(b)  For the dug-cum-bore well, shallow tubewell, and deep
tubewell models, farmgate price estimates were used as
explained in paragraph 6.03. For the dug well and river
lift irrigation scheme models the late 1973 farmgate
prices as presented in the reports were retained. Since
the prices in those models were generally based on
government controlled prices, they tend to be somewhat
lower than those used for adjustment in the earlier
three models, and thus the financial rates of return are
probably understated; and
(c) Increase of farmer's interest rate to 10.5% per annum.



ANNEX 10
Page   2
3.        The key data of the updated models are as follows:
Type of Investment           DW     DBW       STW       DTW      RLS
Area Cultivated (ha)               3        3.5       5       20         95
Gross Command Area (ha)
Without Project               3       3.65      5.5      20        95
With Project                  4.5     4.85      8.5      29        180
Increment                     1.5     1.20      3.0       9        85
Cropping Intensity (%)
Without Project             100     104       110       100        100
With Project                150     139       170       145        190
Investment Cost (Rs)          14,000  16,965   10,650   85,200   180,000
Net Income (Rs)
Without Project           1,010   1,792       630    6,950    94,050
At Full Development       4,165  11,360    7,033   40,620   201,850
Increment                3,155   9,568    6,403   33,670   107,800
Financial Rate of Return (%)    18         42       43        25         43
Debt Service (Rs)
(interest & principal)  2,204   2,579    1,966   12,259    20,163
Net Income at Full Develop-
opment After Debt Service
(Rs)                           1,961   8,781    5,067   28,361   181,687
Increment After Debt Service
(Rs)                             951   6,989    4,437   21,411    87,637
Increment After Debt Service
as a % of Net Income Without
Project (%)                       94      390      704       308         93
4.        To test the sensitivity of the rates of return the following anal-
yzes were made:
(a)  as, in some districts, fertilizer might not be available
when required, a reduction of usage resulting in a 33-1/3%
decrease in fertilized expenses and a reduction in gross
production value by about 15%;
(b)  since in some cases investment costs may increase, for
example, due to lower than average groundwater levels in
areas with already established irrigation facilities,
returns were tested for an increase of 15% in investment
cost.



ANNEX 1 0
Page   3
These two assumptions resulted in the following lower rates of return:
DW   DBW   STW   DTW   RLS
Best estimate                        18    42    43    25    43
With 33-1/3% decrease in
fertilizer expenses and
15% decrease in gross
production value                10    36    35    20    35
With 15% increase in investment
cost                            15    37    38    23    39
B.   Diversified Lending Models
5.        The following two models for the Bijapur district of Karnataka
based on those in the Drought Prone Areas Project Report, and modified for
the higher interest rate, indicate the financial viability of diversified
lending:
Sericulture
Orchard      Farm
Investment Cost (Rs)                            3,000        5,700
Net Income (Rs)
Without Project                             732           398
At Project Full Development               2,740         2,018
Increment                                 2,008         1,620
Financial Rate of Return (%)
Best Estimate                                15            33
Investment Cost Increased 15% (%)            12            24
Revenue Decreased by 25% (%)                 10            18
Debt Service (Interest & Principal) (Rs)          489         1,170
Net Income at Full Development
After Debt Service (Rs)                         2,220           716
Increment After Debt Service (Rs)               1,488           318
Increment After Debt Service as a
% of Net Income Without Project (%)               203            80
In addition to cash income, orchard investments would have other beneifts for
participating farmers: significant improvements in the variety and vitamin C
content of farm family diets; small firewood, fodder, windbreaks; and shade
for cultivators animals.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Benefits and Economic Rates of Return
1.        In addition to the benefits described in paragraphs 7.01 to 7.05
the project would have the following other benefits:
(a) Employment Effects:
The labor generating effect would be particularly impor-
tant to those rural areas plagued by overpopulation and
unemployment. Most of this labor would be needed during
the rabi, which is generally a slack employment season.
(b) Improved Water Management:
The project would help prevent over-development of minor
irrigation (Schedules Aand B).  Due to the large size
of individual river lift scheme investments (typical
cost: Es 180,000), consultants would normally conduct
feasibility studies, and water distribution would be
closely supervised by government experts.
(c) Foreign Exchange:
The diversified lending would increase agricultural
exports, particularly of silk, for which international
demand is strong and prices continue to rise.
(d)  Fruit Quality Improvements:
Rejuvenation of coconut, mango and citrus plantations
as well as improvements of the fruit storage and mar-
keting systems in some areas would result in substantial
quality improvement. The aggregate value of these bene-
fits cannot be quantified as allocation of funds for these
purposes are uncertain.
2.        As in the financial analysis, to test the sensitivity of the re-
turns an increase of investment cost and a reduction of fertilizer expenses
which would result in a reduction in gross benefits were assumed and resulted
in the following rates of return:



ANNEX 11
Page   2
DW    DBW    STW    DTW    RLS
Best estimate                        27     49      43     29      26
With 33-1/3% decrease in
fertilizer cost and 15%
decrease in gross benefits         23     41      35     24      18
With 15% increase in invest-
ment cost                          25     43      38     26      23
Except for the river lift schemes, the economic rates of return, including
those of the sensitivity tests, compare favorably with the financial rates
of return. They indicate that the actual farm-gate prices for foodgrains,
the major project output, are generally below the economic prices, and stress
the high priority for minor irrigation investments geared to food production
increases.
3.        Economic rates of return, including sensitivity tests, for the
diversified lending models are:
Orchard   Sericulture Farm
Ö-----%--Ö-----------
Best estimate                          14              25
Investment cost
increased 15%                        11              21
Benefits decreased 25%                  9              11
Sensitivity tests mainly show that, compared to minor irrigation, diversi-
fied lending should have lower priority and investments are vulnerable to
price fluctuations.



ANNEX 12
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATICN CREDIT PROJECT
/1
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
of the IDA Credit
IDA Eiscal Year                 Disbursement During        Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                          Quarter                  &id of Quarter
- - - - US$ Millions-
1976
September 30, 1975
December 31, 1975                        4.0                         4.0
March 31, 1976                           5.0                         9.0
June 30, 1976                            6.o                        15.0
1977
September 30, 1976                       7.5                        22.5
December 31, 1976                        9.0                        31.5
March 31, 1977                          10.0                        41.5
June 30, 1977                           11.0                        52.5
1978
September 30, 1977,                     11.0                        63.5
December 31, 1977 1-                    11.5                        75.0
/1 Estimated date of effectiveness: July 1, 1975
72- Estimated closing date.
Ma:rch 31, 1975



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINAKE CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Minor Irrigt ion
Calculation of Project Lending Program
(Rs million)
- - - - Actual - - - -             Estimated - - -
FY72     FY73      FY74     FY75      FY76     FY77
ARC loans/debentures to CB/LDB                            268      841      856       950    1,195    1,235
Less:  SFDA/MFAL Schemes                               -         35       53        70      150       180
Estimated costs electrical connections          56      169       158      160       175       160
Sub-total                      56      204       211      230       325       340
Balance ARC program after deductions                     212       637      645       720      870       895
ARC commitment of IDA funds for on-going
projects /a /d                                         54       308      405       355       315      175
Total ARC commitment for on-going IDA projects/b          84       481      633       550      490       275
Balance ARC program in which IDA not involved            128       156       121.    170        380      620
To tal
Balance ARC program eligible for this project                                                   380      620  1,000
IDA share at 55% disbursement                                                                  210       340    550 =
U- -  million
/a   Includes West Bengal Agricultural Development Project, recently negotiated,
in FY76 and 77.
/b   Based on IDA's share averaging 64% of total ARC commitment.
7e   Low figure because IDA's involvement peaked during FY74.
7d   Based on latest supervision reports for FY75 through FY77.
March 7, 1975



ANNEX 13
Table 2
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE C0RP(RATICI CR2EDI PROJECT
Minor Irrigation
Indicative Program of Project Lending by States
ARC Loans and Dabentures to CB and LDB
FY76       FY77         Tbtal
-Rs millionÖ
Andhra Pradesh                              35          60           95
Bihar /                                     15          25           40
Gujarat                                     10          20           30
Haryana                                     40         75           115
Karnataka (Mysore)                          15         25            40
Madhya Pradesh a/                           60        100           160
Maharashtra                                 80        125           205
Punjab                                      10         10            20
Tamil Nadu                                  20         40            60
Uttar Pradesh                               45         75           120
Others                                      5∞         65           115
380        620         1,000
a/  IDA has on-going p4jects in these States, and substantial
disbursements will be made against them in FY76 and 77.
Figures above are exclusive of IDA on-going projects.
March 7, 1975



70-          (        ,/    **~   SI                                                                                                                                                              I8dRD 11047
INDIA                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1974
Agricultural Refinance Corporation Credit Project
GENERALIZED OCCURRENCE OF GROUNDWATER, RAINFALL AND EVAPORATION
AFGHANISTAN
Large to ,odemte well yields
= .,Aliiuoi,m of major raver volleys rnd coastal arecs
Moderate well yields:
Consolodated sed ments (sanostone, etc.)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Sinai well yields:
Pennsular hard races granite, chist, etc.)
I                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Deocan trap (b.asat and related anoaniosl)
m.I EIThin   alluvium and d-ne sad of desert crea
100l C                                               Mounroinous areas
-0,                                       400~~~~~~~~-c C Anevo1 ra et11 in millimeters
35, A-ial. evaportion In  nenimeters
PAKISTAN                                                                                                               - - -- State aed Union Territory bo,ndar,es
30'            R             A                                                                      ~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--Inter ,nation l ba,,ndaries
50t                                                                     c          H           I                                                          &             3S0 LANK
200 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~OO                     20      31       0
MA ,A-                      v              H
~0  51,01 Ov,CvvlThaicn&vav   -   -  aev,.BUeMA






IBRD 11048
70         t      /    w  ,e,s                           80-                                                   INDIA                                     IDJUNE 1974
Agricultural Refinance Corporation Credit Project
AFGHANISTAN                     '                                                           REGIONAL OFFICES, PROJECTS' AREAS AND GROUNDWATER UTILIZATION
S.    otece  t'r      R-C, regional offices:
/                              '~~~~~~~~'~    Existing
'JAMM  1d KASHMIR  Ui  Proposed
3S'>      g         !   P       <         V       (5                                          _- , States with or-going IDA Agricultural Credit Projects
Ground-ster t:lizatio.:
ammu                        /                                             M HIntensively deeloped aond/or potential problem areas
HIMACA   %
NEF                                                                                                                      V g / <; HRADIESH< - --Stats ond Union Territory boundaries
-inte-oti-nal boundaries
,,'P'"'X'''.~~~~~E '<2                                                                                               d' AVSe'*
PAK ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~- 
V~~BHUTAN            'Pt          (
BAN  LADe\ f 
~~      ~            BURMA
O//SA                -'                                    N' A W20 -
TrivordrrJrtK ~     ~         ~        OR                        nesworR LNK
Bay   of                   en g a a
Ara b/'a nt
00,                           A"tc   A  D \$H  
t5                                                                                                                                                                             wr
Thiv rdrutc*                            > ,SRI LANKA 
(CEYLON)                            a         Too      200      so0
I                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIl ES
0    00o  250   300   400   000
OOr ~~~~~~ ,5~~~~~,,, ~~~~~ Un                                                  Et~~~~iLOMESEPS
O~oU ru,nn    byn U,                                                                            go.



