CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 540 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Refinance Corporation Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 28, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 540 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Refinance Corporation Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 28, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1975, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by Agricultural Refinance Corporation
(hereinafter called ARC) with the Borrower s assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to ARC the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and ARC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
namely, that in Section 2.01 , the following paragraph is substituted for paragraph
5:
"5.  The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "ARC" means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower, or any
successor thereof;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and ARC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "LDB" means any     State Cooperative Land Development Bank
established in a State or Union Territory of India. Where LDB is a federation
of Primary Banks, "LDB" shall include all such Primary Banks and where, in such
Union Territories, no such State Cooperative Land Development Bank is established,
"LDB" means such cooperative bank as shall be approved by the Reserve Bank
of India to take part in long-term agricultural lending operations;
(e)   "Participating Bank" means any LDB, State cooperative bank or
commercial bank making loans which are, or are proposed to be, refinanced by
ARC under the Project;
(f)   "Small Farmer" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Schedule 3
to the Project Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower, the Association and ARC;
(g)   "Beneficiary" means any person, group of persons, cooperative society,
corporation or other entity which is eligible for receiving a loan from a Participating
Bank under the Project; such term shall include the term "Small Farmer";
(h)   "Scheme" means an agricultural development project agreed by ARC,
the commercial banks and cooperative credit institutions operating in the area in
which such project is located, and, when necessary, the Government of the State
in which such area is located and under which ARC refinances the loans made
by such banks and credit institutions;
(i)   "Category" means a category of the allocation of proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(j)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,* an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-five million dollars
($75,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
May 1, 1985 and ending November 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound


﻿6
administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall plovide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ARC to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ARC to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit under Categories
(1) and (2) to ARC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and ARC under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association and which shall include those set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)   In order to assist ARC in carrying out the studies and training programs
forming Parts B(ii) and B(iii) of the Project, the Borrower shall make available
to ARC, on a grant basis the proceeds of the Credit under Category (3)(b).
Section 3.02. In causing the study forming Part B(i) of the Project to be
carried out, the Borrower shall ensure that the said study be completed not later
than July 31, 1976, or such other date as the Association shall agree, inder terms
of reference acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that criteria for the issuance
of all LDB debentures not purchased by ARC be as nearly as possible those set
forth in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that a study be made of the requirements
for the issuance of LDB debentures as well as the most efficient ways of


﻿7
implementing such requirements. The said study shall be completed by institutions,
and under terms of reference, acceptable to the Association, not later than July 31,
1976, or such other date as the Association shall agree.
(c)   The Borrower shall ensure that a committee be established with
composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Association, for the purpose
of monitoring LDB financial performance and the issuance of all LDB debentures.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall inform the Association as soon as
practicable, of any proposed amendment to the Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Act, No. 10 of 1963, or to any other legislation that would materially affect the
operations and financial condition of ARC.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the Central Groundwater Board
furnish to the Association a list, acceptable to the Borrower and the Association,
of specified areas in which there is a danger of over-exploitation of groundwater;
such list shall be furnished not later than August 31, 1975 or such other date
as the Association shall agree.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Agricultural Refinance Corporation Act, No. 10 of 1963, as
amended to the date of this Agreement, shall have been further amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as, in the judgment of the Association,
to materially affect the carrying out of the Project or the operations or financial
condition of ARC.
(b)   ARC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
of ARC under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that ARC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC or for the
suspension of its operations.


﻿8
(e)   ARC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC or by others whereby
any of the property of ARC shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
EffectiVe Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of ARC
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and ARC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the committee referred to in Section 4.01(c) of this Agreement has
been duly established; and
(d)   ARC has furnished to the Association a training program, acceptable
to the Association for Part B(iii) of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC, and is legally binding upon ARC
in accordance with its terms; and


﻿9
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC, is
legally binding upon the Borrower and ARC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date July 28, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement and those
of Section 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Director to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. L. Weirer
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proc!eds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Loans for minor              69,000,000          55/( of the amount
irrigation                                        disbursed by
ARC to refinance
such loans
(2)   Loans for other                5,000,000         55% of the amount
types of agri-                                    disbursed by ARC
cultural invest-                                 to refinance such
ments                                             loans
(3)   Studies and Train-                               50%
ing:
(a)   under Part                 200,000
B(i) of the
Project
(b)   under Parts                800,000
B(ii) and
B(iii) of
the Project
TOTAL        75,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply


﻿12
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made:
(a)   in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   in respect of expenditures under Category (1) and (2) after July 31,
1976, unless the Association has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to it
that: (i) ARC's authorized capital has been increased to not less than five hundred
million rupees; and (ii) such capital has been paid in amounts sufficient to ensure
at all times that the debt-equity ratio of ARC, as such ratio is defined in Section
20(2) of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation Act (No. 10 of 1963), shall not
exceed 20:1.
4.    Notwithstanding   the allocation  of an  amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    A  two-year program   to finance investments by Beneficiaries in minor
irrigation and other agricultural projects through the refinancing by ARC
of loans made by Participating Banks.
B.    (i)         A  study on the feasibility of merging the short-term   and
long-term cooperative credit institutions;
(ii)        a study of the training needs of junior-level staff of LDB and
the training of such staff; and
(iii)       an intensive, two-year training program primarily for senior and
middle-level LDB staff.
*                 *                * P
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


﻿0
14
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which funds
equivalent to part of the proceeds of the Credit shall be lent to ARC by the
Borrower:
(a)   In respect of ARC refinancing not exceeding 9 years:
(i)   interest rate of not less than 6-3/4% per annum less 1/4% for
prompt payment;
(ii)  repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b)   In respect of ARC refinancing in excess of 9 but not exceeding 15
years:
(i)  interest rate of not less than 7-1/4% per annum less 1/4% for
prompt payment;
(ii)  repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c)   The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk.


