CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 540 IN
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Refinance Corporation Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
DATED APRIL 28, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in    various currencies equivalent to  seventy-five million  dollars
($75,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that ARC agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth:
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ARC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to ARC on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering


﻿4
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) ARC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
the Borrower on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
ARC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b)   ARC shall, for the purpose of on-lending the funds lent to ARC by
the Borrower to the Participating Banks, enter into agreements with such
Participating Banks upon terms and conditions which shall include those set forth
in Paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) With regard to all lending under Part A of the Project,
ARC shall ensure that Participating Banks apply the lending terms and conditions
set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, including, without
limitation, the special conditions for Small Farmers.
(b)   With regard to lending for minor irrigation under the said Part A, ARC
shall, in addition to the foregoing:
(i)         ensure that the well spacing and density criteria set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
by agreement between the Association and ARC, are applied;
(ii)        ensure that before ARC approves a Scheme in an area, a detailed
study of the availability of water is carried out, taking into
account prior and downstream users, as well as the net depletion
resulting from actual and proposed groundwater exploitation and
the effect of such exploitation on the base flow of the streams
involved; and
(iii)       ensure that in the specified areas referred to in the list to be
furnished by the Central Groundwater Board in accordance with
the provisions of Section 4.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement, a special study be carried out by the groundwater
authority of the State involved, justifying the investment.
Section 2.04. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 2.03 hereof and in consultation and agreement with the Association,


﻿5
starting October 1, 1977, or such other date as the Association shall agree, ARC
shall not make any refinancing available to an LDB for lending through a branch
of such LDB or to a Primary Bank member of such LDB, if:
(i)        such LDB fails to collect 65% of demand on loans made through
such branch, or such Primary Bank fails to collect 65% of
demand, as the case may be; and
(ii)       in the event that such LDB through such branch, or such Primary
Bank, has collected 65% or more of demand, but less than 75%,
the State Government fails to pay in equity of such LDB or
Primary Bank in an amount such that the recovery rate is
brought to 75% of demand or more, provided, however, that
the amount of such paid-in equity shall not exceed 10% of
demand.
(b)   ARC shall, as an interim measure, ensure that all refinancing made
available in any fiscal year to an LDB established in any State, for lending through
a branch of such LDB or to a Primary Bank member of such LDB, as the case
may be, be proportionate to the percentage of recovery of principal and interest
on loans fallen due at the end of the preceding fiscal year of such LDB or Primary
Bank. The amount of refinancing so to be made available to any LDB for lending
through a branch, or to a Primary Bank, shall be determined by applying to the
aggregate of all debentures issued in the previous fiscal year of such LDB for
refinancing lending made through such branch, or issued by such Primary Bank,
as the case may be, the percentage set forth in column (2) of the table below
corresponding to the percentage of overdues of principal and interest on loans
fallen due at the end of such fiscal year for such branch or Primary Bank set
forth in column (1) below:
(1)                                      (2)
Maximum debentures
Overdues                              to be issued
(% of demand)                      (% of previous year issue)
0 - 25                              unrestricted
26 - 35                                    80
36 - 45                                    70
46 - 55                                    60
56 - 60                                    50
61 - 100                                  NIL
Provided that ARC shall not make any refinancing available to any LDB branch
or Primary Bank in the event that: (i) such LDB branch or Primary Bank has
achieved a recovery rate of less than 75% of demand in the previous fiscal year


﻿6
and (ii) such recovery rate is less than the recovery rate achieved by such LDB
branch or Primary Bank in the fiscal year immediately preceding such fiscal year.
In calculating the overdues for the purpose of this sut paragraph, ARC may
take into account redeemable equity paid in to reduce such overdues up to an
amount of such equity not exceeding 10% of demand.
(c) For the pwrpose of this Section, the following terms have the following
meanings:
(i)         "demand" means the aggregate of principal and interest on loans
fallen due;
(ii)        "overdues" means that part of demand which has not been
collected; and
(iii)       "recovery rate" means the percentage of demand which has been
collected.
Section 2.05. Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Sections 2.03 and 2.04 of this Agreement, ARC shall not make any refinancing
available to any State LDB unless such LDB and its Primary Banks, if any, apply
the lending terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement for all similar types of projects.
Section 2.06. Amounts allocated to Categories (1) and (2) of the table in
paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement shall be used
to finance loans from ARC to State cooperative banks providing medium- and
long-term loans for Schemes under the Project, provided:
(i)        ARC applies to such banks, their branches and primary societies
provisions of this Agreement relating to LDB including, without
limitation, the conditions of refinancing set forth in Sections
2.03, 2.04 and 2.05 of this Agreement provided, however, that
the provisions of paragraph (a) of the said section 2.04 shall apply
to the said cooperative banks, branches and primary societies
from the date of this Agreement and that the provisions of
paragraph (b) of the said Section shall not apply to them; and
(ii)       the aggregate of such amounts so used does not exceed the
equivalent of $500,000.


﻿7
Section 2.07. ARC shall, in consultation with the Association, take all such
steps as shall be necessary to ensure that not less than $37,000,000 equivalent
of the proceeds of the Credit under Categories (1) and (2) shall be used to refinance
loans to Small Farmers.
Section 2.08. ARC shall ensure that valuation of land offered for security
of loans to be financed under the Project shall be based on the estimated value
of the land after development resulting from the proposed loan.
Section 2.09. In carrying out Part B(ii) of the Project, ARC shall: (i) complete
the study of the training needs of junior-level LDB staff not later than October 3 1,
1975, or such other date as the Association shall agree; (ii) thereafter prepare and
furnish to the Association a draft training program for its approval; and (iii)
implement such program as agreed between the Association and ARC.
Section 2.10. ARC shall establish a system, satisfactory to the Association,
of evaluating on a continuous basis the financial and economic benefits of
agricultural credit financed under the Project, which shall also be suitable to monitor
similar projects financed by the Association through ARC.
Section 2.11. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ARC shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent or made
available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.12. (a) ARC shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, reports, contract documents and work schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   ARC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof and including separate records for lending
to Small Farmers) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent or made available to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project,
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit so relent or made available to it and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿8
Section 2.13. (a) ARC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   ARC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ARC of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC
Section 3.01. ARC shall: (i) at all times manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in
accordance with sound business and financial practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced and competent
staff in adequate number; and (ii) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business or in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARC shall
take all steps necessary on its part to ensure that the participating commercial
banks shall apply in areas of Project lending the same criteria to all similar types
of lending that they apply to Project lending and, with respect to such similar
types of lendings, shall not offer more favorable terms in such areas than are offered
under Project lending except for schemes submitted under the aegis of the Small
Farmers Development Agencies.
Section 3.03. ARC shall charge, and shall ensure that Participating Banks
charge, at all times interest rates on all their loans at rates sufficient to enable
ARC and the Participating Banks respectively to: (a) cover all operating
expenditures and charges including taxes (if any) and interest payments on
borrowings; and (b) maintain adequate provisions for bad debts and maintain
adequate general reserves in accordance with sound commercial practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.


﻿9
Section 4.02. ARC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ARC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. ARC shall: (i) require Participating Banks to maintain separate
accounts for Project lending; and (ii) ensure that the annual audited accounts of
such Banks are submitted to the Association within four months of the end of
their fiscal year together with a statement of Project lending for such Banks certified
by ARC.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ARC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 400018
India
Cable address:
AGREFINANS
Bombay
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf


﻿11
of ARC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other person
or persons as ARC shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. ARC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ARC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ARC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Project Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions shall be used in implementing
the Project:
1.   ARC to Participating Banks
(a)   Interest rate to be not less than 7.5% per annum;
(b)   Installment repayments to coincide approximately with collections
from ultimate borrowers; and
(c)   Refinancing to be by purchase of debentures or by loans up to 90%
of individual loans.
2.   Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(A)   Loans for Minor Irrigation:
(a)   Interest rate to be not less than 10.5% per annum;
(b)   A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost of project
investments may be charged;
(c)   Farmers' contribution (including obligatory purchase of LDB shares,
own labor, and other contributions in cash or kind):
(i)        for lending to   Small Farmers, a minimum     5%   of
investment cost;
(ii)       for farmers cultivating land providing a pre-development
net return to family resources to such farmer and his
family ranging from Rs2,001 to Rs3,500 based on 1972
prices, a minimum of 10% of the investment cost. For
the purposes of determining said net returns, the criteria
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement shall apply; and
(iii)      for other farmers, a minimum   of 10% of the cost of
pumpsets and 15% for other minor irrigation investments.


﻿13
(d)   Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's repayment
capacity, but not to exceed:
(i)         for normal lending:
(1)   7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether financed as
separate loans or included in other minor irrigation loans;
and
(2)   9 years on loans for minor irrigation, other than pumpsets;
and
(ii)        for lending to Small Farmers:
(1)   7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether financed as
separate loans or included in other minor irrigation loans;
and
(2)   15 years for all other minor irrigation loans;
(e)   Grace periods not exceeding 23 months from the date of the first
installment of the loans, taking into account a full kharif and rabi
crop, may be granted at the discretion of ARC, provided that the
repayment period of .such loans is not exceeded;
(f)   Technical standards, in particular spacing criteria, as laid down by ARC
to be observed;
(g)   If his own cultivated area is significantly smaller than that which can
be adequately irrigated by the irrigation unit so financed, the borrower
will undertake to sell water surplus to his needs, or to hire out his
pumpset, or to participate with other farmers in the joint investment
and operation of the irrigation unit.
(B)   Loans for Projects other than Minor Irrigation:
(a)   Annual interest rate to be not less than 1 1% per annum;
(b)   A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost of investment
may be charged;


﻿14
(c)   Farmers' contribution (including obligatory purchase of LDB shares,
own labor and other contributions in cash or kind):
(i)         for lending  to  Small Farmers, a minimum      5%  of
investment cost;
(ii)       for Farmers cultivating land providing a pre-development
net return to family resources to such Farmer and his
family ranging from Rs2,001 to Rs3,500 based on 1972
prices, a minimum of 10% of the investment cost. For
the purposes of determining said net returns, the criteria
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement shall apply; and
(iii)       for other farmers, 15% of the investment cost.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the terms "Small Farmer" and "Farmer" shall
include all beneficiaries of Schemes other than minor irrigation; for the purpose
of determining the equivalent of Small Farmers and Farmers among such
beneficiaries, the definition of Small Farmer and the description of Farmers set
forth in sub-paragraph (ii) hereof shall be adapted to mean "any person primarily
engaged in an activity relevant to a Scheme other than minor irrigation which
provides a pre-development net return to family resources to such person and his
family  not exceeding Rs2,000" and     "ranging from  Rs2,001 to Rs3,500",
respectively; and "net return to family resources" shall mean gross family income
from the said activity less costs actually incurred.
(d)   Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's repayment
capacity, but not to exceed 15 years (including grace periods where
necessary);
(e)   No loan shall be granted for marketing Schemes or storage facilities
related thereto without prior approval of the Association.
(C)   General
(a)   Participating Banks to maintain separate accounts for lending to Small
Farmers;
(b)   Security to be in accordance with arrangements between Participating
Banks and ARC;
(c)   ARC shall refinance only sound Schemes which, on the basis of careful
study are considered to be financially viable, have a minimum financial


﻿15
rate of return of 15%, and are backed with satisfactory technical and
administrative management; and
(d)   ARC shall forward all applications for refinance of Schemes having
total investment costs of US$0.5 million equivalent or more for
diversified lending, together with appraisal reports and all other relevant
data to the Association for its approval before ARC approves the
scheme.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Spacing and Density of Wells
A.    Spacing of Wells
In order to avoid danger of excessive interference of wells, their spacing
shall be determined for any area by the following formula:
S = 100             RxA
r
B.   Density of Wells
Density of wells within an elementary watershed shall be determined by
application of the following formula:
d =   100 r
RxA
where      S =   distance between wells in meters
d =   density (wells/km2)
R -   total crop irrigation requirement (mm/ha) for all crops
grown in normal pattern on the irrigated area
A =   size of the area to be irrigated (ha)
r =   estimated annual recharge (mm)


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Definition of Small Farmer
1.    "Small Farmer" shall mean any farmer cultivating land providing a
pre-development net return to family resources to such farmer and his family not
exceeding Rs2,000 based on 1972 prices.
2.    For the purpose of determining said net return, the following criteria shall
apply:
(a)   "land" shall include all land actually cultivated by the farmer
notwithstanding the fact that ownership of such land may vest in one
or more persons;
(b)   "net return to family resources" shall mean gross family income from
the land, less costs actually incurred (including cash value of the
farmer's own input, including seed, fertilizer, hired human labor, hired
bullock labor, feed consumed by family bullocks, irrigation charges,
land revenue, interest on crop loan, and rent on leased land); and
(c)   the amounts for the current year shall be arrived at by applying the
current price index of the All India Agricultural Laborers Index for
the State in which the land is located to the amount set forth in
paragraph I hereto.


