FIL         C C O PY                     Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2183-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR
THE OGSEO AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT STAGE I
December 7, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorhation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Won
$1                   W 485
W 1,000              $2.06
$1 million           W 485 million
W 1 million     =    $2,061.86
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADC     -   Agricultural Development Corporation
FLIA    -   Farmland Improvement Association
MAF     -   Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NACF    -   National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
ORD     -   Office of Rural Development
OSROK   -   Office of Supply of the Republic of Korea
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
OGSEO AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT STAGE I
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Agricultural Development Corporation
Guarantor:             The Republic of Korea
Amount:                 $36 million equivalent
Terms:                 Seventeen years, including four years of grace, with
interest at 7.9% p.a.
Prolect Description:   The project would benefit 12,300 ha and would support
the Government's efforts to increase foodgrain produc-
tion and rural incomes through irrigation and land
development. Annual net foreign exchange savings
would amount to about $8 million as a result of the
increases of about 75% and 240% in rice and barley
production, respectively. About 40% of the 23,400
farm families (approximately 130,000 people) who will
benefit directly from the project would be those whose
present incomes fall below the poverty line. The
principal features of the project are: provision of
irrigation facilities - pumping stations, canals and
on-farm development - on 7,090 ha of newly irrigated
areas; improvement of irrigation and drainage and land
consolidation on 3,710 ha of existing irrigated areas;
improved water supply on 1,490 ha; construction of
project field offices; and technical assistance.
The largest element of risk results from the timely
availability of adequate water supplies from the
Daecheong Dam. This has been allowed for in the
design of the project by scheduling the completion of
newly irrigated areas at least one year after the
scheduled completion of the dam; further, the Govern-
ment has given an assurance that there would be
sufficient releases from the dam to offset the saltwater
intrusion downstream of Ganggyeong, as well as to meet
irrigation requirements. The other risks are no
greater than can normally be expected with projects of
this type.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:     The table below summarizes the total cost of the project.
Local   Foreign    Total
----- ($ million) -----
Civil Works
New irrigation
Pumping Stations and Canals             8.8       7.4       16.2
On-farm Development                     4.5       6.8       11.3
Existing Irrigation
Irrigation and Drainage Improvement     2.0       1.9        3.9
Land Consolidation                      1.7       2.5        4.2
Equipment and Materials                     1.4        5.1       6.5
Right-of-Way                                4.2         -        4.2
Consultants and Training                     -        0.4        0.4
Engineering and Administration              5.8        1.0       6.8
Total Base Cost                         28.4      25.1       53.5
Physical Contingencies                      4.2       3.8        8.0
Price Contingencies                         7.4        7.1      14.5
Total Project Cost                     40.0      36.0       76.0
Financing Plan:           The proposed Bank loan of $36 million would finance
the full foreign exchange cost of the project (47%).
Local expenditures, representing the estimated
balance of project costs, would be met through
annual government budgetary allocations to ADC.
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank Fiscal Year    1979     1980     1981     1982     1983
----------$ million equivalent----------
Annual                       1.0      6.8       12.4      9.7      6.1
Cumulative                   1.0      7.8      20.2     29.9      36.0
Rate of Return:           12%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 1728-KO, dated December 1, 1977



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION FOR THE
OGSEO AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT STAGE I
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), with the guarantee of
the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $36.0 million to help finance the
Ogseo Area Development Project Stage I along the west coast of Korea. The
loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
at 7.9% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Growth and Prospects of the Korean
Economy") was distributed under cover of SecM77-158 dated March 4, 1977.
The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Economic Developments
3.        During the last few years, the external economic environment has
been subject to unexpected, sharp and sudden changes which seriously affected
economic activity in Korea and, more particularly, its external trade and pay-
ments situation. The boom in world trade led to increases in the volume of
Korean exports of 46% and 54% in 1972 and 1973 respectively. But in 1974,
the quadrupling of oil prices combined with a sharp rise in the prices of
foodgrains and capital goods led to a deterioration of 18% in the terms of
trade. At the same time, the deep recession in the industrialized countries
caused a slackening in the growth of exports to some 9%. The purchasing power
of exports, which had expanded by over 46% each year in 1972 and 1973, actually
decreased by nearly 11% in 1974. During 1975 export volume grew by a remark-
able 23%, assisted by the devaluation of the won in December 1974 and a very
vigorous drive to expand and diversify markets. However, part of this gain
was offset by a further deterioration of 10% in the terms of trade.
4.        Among the major economic targets set by the Government in 1976 were
the containment of inflation to 10% and a reduction in the balance of payments
current account deficit substantially from $1.9 billion in 1975 to $1.4 billion.
The former goal was achieved and the latter substantially surpassed. Wholesale
prices, which had increased by nearly 80% between the end of 1973 and the end
of 1975, increased by around 9% in 1976, primarily because import costs (which
more than doubled between 1972 and 1974) apparently decreased by about 2% in
1976; moreover, the growth in domestic credit was limited in 1976 to 21%
(compared with increases of 54% and 32% in 1974 and 1975 respectively).
5.        Primarily, as a result of the recovery in the OECD countries,
Korea's exports increased in 1976 by 36% in volume and there was an improve-
ment of 14% in the terms of trade. While part of this increase in exports
may have been supplied by a drawing-down of inventories, it is evident
that it could not have been achieved without substantial additions to



- 2 -
production capacity in the last couple of years. A remarkable feature of
Korea's economic management through the crisis of 1974 and 1975 was that
fixed investment continued to grow at an average of 11% p.a. in constant
1970 prices, raising its ratio to GNP from 24.3% in 1973 to 25.6% in 1975.
6.        The real growth of GNP in 1976 was 15.2% as compared with an
average increase of 8.5% in the two previous years. This was the result
primarily of buoyant exports, but the extraordinary growth in agricultural
output was also a significant factor. Value added in agriculture grew
at over 7% in each of the last two years. While weather conditions were
favorable over the past three seasons, there has also been a real improvement
in yields as a result of better technology and the more effective use of the
various inputs.
7.         At the end of 1976, total outstanding debt was about $7 billion
in medium and long-term maturities and an additional $2 billion in maturities
of less than one year. Debt service payments of nearly $1 billion in 1976
were well within Korea's repayment capacity. The ratio of debt service pay-
ments to exports (of goods and nonfactor services) declined from an average
of 21% in the early 1970s to 11% at the end of 1976.
8.        It would appear that Korea achieved several of the objectives it
set for itself in the Third Plan, despite the balance of payments difficul-
ties experienced in 1974 and 1975 and a generally less favorable international
economic environment than had been expected. The rate of growth of GNP
was 11.2% p.a. compared with the original target of 8.6%. Considerable
progress has also been made in expanding the manufacturing sector. Progress
in reducing reliance on foreign savings and in restraining inflation
fell short of expectations. Furthermore, even with employment growing at
4% p.a. during the Third Plan period, there has been little improvement in
the unemployment situation.
9.        Preliminary indications suggest that industrial production, exports
and balance of payments targets for 1977 will be realized and perhaps slightly
exceeded. Industrial production, which rose at an annual rate of over 9%
during the first four months of 1977, increased at a faster pace in the
subsequent months; a real growth rate of GNP of 10% appears to be achievable.
Exports are now expected to rise by about 30% and imports by 27%. Services
receipts may be higher than originally projected due to a considerable increase
in both tourism and remittances from workers and construction companies
overseas. The current account deficit may be as small as it was in 1976 or
even slightly lower. Price increases are averaging about 10% as planned. The
introduction of the value added tax as well as increases in money supply
resulting from rising levels of net foreign assets are exercising pressures on
prices, and the Government plans to hold the price line by further liberaliza-
tion of food and other imports as well as by keeping low the prices of grains
released from government stocks under the Grain Management Fund.



- 3-
Longer-Term Prospects and Program
10.       The preparation of the Fourth Plan (1977-81) afforded an oppor-
tunity for a comprehensive review of Korea's economic problems, prospects and
priorities. Korea's longer-term goals as specified in the Plan are "growth
with enhanced self-sufficiency" and "greater equity and social development."
It is the firm intention of the Korean Government to achieve a maximum rate
of growth consistent with a sound balance of payments and also with the main-
tenance of internal financial stability. The Plan projects that the current
account deficit will be eliminated during the next few years. National sav-
ings are expected to finance as much as 92% of total investment as compared
with about 72% in the Third Plan period (1972-76). However, these projections
may prove overly optimistic. The domestic savings target appears somewhat
ambitious, while the projected investment requirements may turn out to be too
low.
11.       Growth and stability are not the only objectives.   Enhanced equity
and greater social development are also of importance in the Korean scheme of
things. The main emphasis is: (a) on providing adequate employment oppor-
tunities for the rapidly growing labor force to prevent any increase in the
unemployment problem; and (b) on achieving a wider distribution of the bene-
fits of growth. Rising employment is the most important instrument for
achieving an equitable distribution of the benefits of growth. This is all
the more so because, despite the success in reducing the rate of growth of
population to around 1.8% p.a., the labor force continues to grow at over
3% p.a. because of the baby boom following the Korean War in the early 1950s.
Health outlays will increase as a proportion of total investment with special
stress on preventive care and an innovative health delivery system to service
low income families, especially in the rural areas. Rural incomes are
expected to increase as a result of a further improvement in agricultural
terms of trade and increased opportunities for nonfarm employment, primarily
through the Saemaeul (New Community) Movement and small industries development.
The quality of life in the rural areas is to be further enhanced by the
provision of additional infrastructure facilities.
12.       The achievement of these goals would not require a change in
the basic development strategy of export-led growth, which Korea has
followed so successfully since the mid-sixties. GNP is expected to rise
at 9.2% p.a., fueled by the growth of 16% p.a. in the volume of manufactured
exports. The manufacturing sector, which now contributes 32% of GNP, is
expected to provide 54% of the increase in GNP during the Plan period,
increasing at 14.3% a year. The ratio of commodity exports to GNP is
expected to rise from the current level of about 30% to about 42% in 1981,
with the manufacturing sector providing about 92% of total exports compared
with 90% in 1976. This demands the achievement of continuous gains in effi-
ciency and productivity. Korea's comparative advantage will gradually shift
towards manufactures, such as machinery, electronics and shipbuilding, which
require relatively more skilled labor. It is also necessary to achieve some
import substitution in steel and chemicals to ensure an adequate supply of



- 4 -
intermediate inputs for the export industries. These changes in the indus-
trial structure will require intensive efforts to improve the mechanisms for
the transfer of foreign technology and the development of appropriate indi-
genous technology.
13.       The Plan targets for exports are challenging but appear to be
attainable, given the extraordinary drive of the Korean exporters, a con-
tinuation of the present level of export incentives and the assumption that
the economies of the OECD countries will grow at an average rate of around
4-5% annually while the volume of world trade expands at an annual rate of
about 8% during the period.
14.       Strong policy measures are envisioned in the Plan to increase the
mobilization of domestic resources. Success in restraining inflation is
expected to have a significantly favorable effect on the mobilization of
private savings. In the past, private savings have fluctuated with the move-
ment of the terms of trade and the rate of inflation. The terms of trade are
projected to be fairly stable through the Fourth Plan period and a rate of
inflation of the order of 8-9% a year is foreseen. The Government has taken
measures designed to channel the higher private savings likely to be gener-
ated by these developments to an increasing extent into the financial sys-
tem, and, thereby, into more effective use for productive investments. In
addition to restoring a positive real rate of return on financial forms of
savings, the measures include the imposition of a capital gains tax at the
rate of 50% on undeveloped land, and 30% on nonprincipal household dwellings.
Funds that went into real estate are now flowing into the securities market
where the after-tax yields are more attractive. At the same time, direct
measures have been taken to force corporations to "go public," thus increas-
ing the supply of corporate securities. Steps are also being taken to
increase the variety of financial securities in terms of maturities, yields
and conditions that would constitute an attractive package to investors.
15.       The measures to increase the mobilization of private savings
are supplemented by fiscal actions to increase public savings. The defense
tax surchage imposed in 1975 is to be continued and a value added tax has
been introduced. The extent of the subsidization of farmers and urban
consumers through the Grain Management Fund is being reduced. The increased
resource mobilization and the strong restraint on most current expenditures
will make substantial budgetary surpluses available to finance capital
expenditures.
16.       The Plan's priorities, strategy and programs are sound.   The con-
tinued emphasis on relatively rapid growth is essential in the light of the
need to create additional employment for the growing labor force. Further-
more, the predominant role the export sector is expected to play is appro-
priate in view of Korea's limited natural resources. Moreover, Korea has the
manpower and the entrepreneurial capacity to implement the Plan's invest-
ment program. The Plan strikes a reasonable balance between the various



objectives of increasing employment, maintaining a minimum growth of per
capita incomes, strengthening the balance of payments and making progress
towards diversifying the industrial structure so as to sustain export growth
in the 1980s.
17.       Notwithstanding the efforts being made to increase the mobilization
of domestic resources, Korea's ability to meet its investment requirements
from domestic savings may fall short of the Plan projections, and a sizeable
continuing inflow of external capital will be necessary. It is estimated
that Korea may need to borrow an average of $2.5 billion p.a. over the next
several years. Its ability to obtain foreign capital in these amounts on
reasonable terms will continue to be a challenge. The servicing of the debt
should not pose serious difficulties given the present debt service ratio
and the prospects for continued export growth, provided that the proportion
of external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest rates is not
excessive. On the assumption that Korea can obtain the required inflow of
capital on reasonable terms, the debt service ratio which now stands at
around 11% is expected to decline slowly to just under 10% at the end of the
decade and remain at about that level during the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
18.       As of October 31, 1977, Korea had received 34 Bank Loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totaling $1,588.5 mil-
lion in loans and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations
and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan).
19.       A substantial part ($558.2 million) of Bank financing has been for
the transport sector - $219.7 million for railways, $191.5 million for
highways and $147.0 million for ports. $289.5 million has been lent for
agricultural projects. Details are given in para. 35. The Korea Development
Finance Corporation (KDFC) has received $220 million, the Korea Development
Bank (KDB) $142.5 million, and the Medium Industry Bank (MIB) $30 million in
Bank loans for relending to private industry. An additional $80.0 million has
been lent directly to industry in support of a heavy machinery project. A
total of $103.3 million has been provided for three education projects and a
vocational training project; $25.0 million for a tourism project; $15.0 mil-
lion for a secondary cities project; and $60 million for a rural infra-
structure project. In addition, two Program Loans amounting to $175 million
have also been made available to Korea.
20.       As of October 31, 1977, $648.4 million of the total Bank lending
remained undisbursed on effective Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments
in the past two years. The rate of disbursement has increased quite markedly
in recent months. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans,
IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of that date and Notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. As indicated in the Notes, progress on project imple-
mentation is generally satisfactory.



- 6 -
21.       Excluding one project that was subsequently cancelled, IFC had by
October 31, 1977, entered into 18 commitments totaling $73.0 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Under consideration are projects in
soda ash manufacture, plastic film, and a lead smelter.
22.      The emphasis which the Government places on agricultural and rural
development is reflected in the Bank's proposed lending program. In
addition to the project under consideration, a second rural infrastructure
project and a multipurpose project, including an irrigation component, have
been appraised and an agricultural marketing project is under preparation.
23.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large, and thus there is considerable
support for this sector in the proposed program.
24.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1976 was about 8.9%, and the share of debt
service was of the order of 4.9% at that time. These ratios are expected to
increase to around 18% and 11% by the end of the present decade.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
25.       Issues, objectives and strategy in the agricultural sector are
described in the Bank's Economic Report referred to in para. 2 and are
summarized here. Some additional issues related to nonagricultural rural
development are also discussed.
26.       Despite Korea's rapid industrialization during the last 15 years,
some 45% of its labor force is still engaged primarily in agriculture, which
accounts for 22% of GNP. Population pressure on the 2.3 million ha of
available cropland is intense and yields are relatively high. Official
statistics show a striking improvement in the incomes of rural households
compared to urban wage and salary-earner households in recent years. However,
rural households are slightly larger and have more workers as compared to
average urban households; thus, the official statistics show a disparity in
incomes per worker and per capita between the rural and urban sectors. More-
over, the official statistics on which these comparisons are based suffer
from some limitations, and other studies suggest that the rural-urban income
disparities are still significant, though not large in comparison with other
countries. Since the late 1960s, as a result of price incentives, the wider
use of high-yielding varieties and cash inputs, and favorable weather, rice
production has increased dramatically; Korea has achieved self-sufficiency in
its staple food crop this year.



- 7 -
27.    In its Fourth Five-Year Plan (1977-81), the Government aims to
complement its basic strategy of a rapid expansion of industrial output and
exports with further additional improvements in the rural sector. The following
objectives have been set out:
(a) Rural Incomes. The Fourth Plan aims to improve the balance between
incomes in rural and urban areas and, thus, to retard rural-urban
migration. This is to be achieved through increases in off-farm,
as well as agricultural, incomes.
(b) Rural Living Standards. As part of its overall social development
strategy, the Government aims to increase the availability of
social services (namely, health, education, housing and utilities)
in rural areas, which should also help to slow down migration to
urban areas.
(c) Rural Employment. Even with the projected rapid growth in Korea's
industrial output, industrial and service employment will do little
more than absorb the expected increase in the labor force.
Employment in agriculture must, therefore, be sustained at about
its present level, at least for the next five to ten years. Rural
employment will also be a useful cushion against cyclical swings in
manufacturing. While underemployment is common in rural Korea,
this is not so at the peak transplanting and harvesting seasons.
Some selective mechanization is, therefore, appropriate.
(d) Self-sufficiency. The Government is firmly committed to a policy
of self-sufficiency in the major foodgrains. While sufficiency in
rice and barley appears sustainable, self-sufficiency in wheat and
animal feed grains is only a very distant possibility. The
balance of payments impact of imported grains (mainly wheat),
while significant in the past, is not likely to be a burden in the
future, given the expected rapid growth in Korea's international
trade.
28.       The strategies proposed for attaining these objectives are as
follows:
(a) Rural Income Strategy. Up to now, price policy has been an impor-
tant element of this strategy. Through its control of stockpiles
of grain and fertilizer the Government has been able to adjust
prices so as to increase rural incomes, while not raising consumer
prices unduly. However, in recent years, the Government has
recognized the need to reduce the drain on the budget resulting
from these subsidies. The fertilizer subsidy was abolished in
December 1975, and the Government is bringing domestic prices for
foodgrains more into line with international levels. Apart from
adjustments to overcome short-term fluctuations in world markets,
grain prices will probably continue to move towards free market
values in the future. Since major improvements in the farmers'
terms of trade, therefore, seem unlikely, future increases in



- 8 -
rural incomes will have to come largely from improvements in the
productivity of land and labor, through land and water development
(including land consolidation), improvements in the already good
extension, research, credit and marketing services, and selective
mechanization. Industries in rural areas will also provide
additional off-farm income.
(b) Rural Living Standards Strategy. As a result of the income-
generating activities just described, the demand for increased
consumption and improved living standards will rise. Availability
of consumer goods is not likely to be a problem. The Government's
role will be to provide those public services which it is uniquely
fitted to provide - education, health services, transport facilities,
water supply, rural electrification, telephones and housing
finance. Because of the increasing demands on budgetary resources,
the Government is successfully mobilizing impressive amounts of
self-help from the beneficiaries of these programs under the New
Community (Saemaeul) Movement.
(c) Rural Employment Strategy. Employment in rural Korea can be
sustained and underemployment reduced through a balanced program
of land and water development, Saemaeul rural development activities,
selective mechanization to remove employment bottlenecks, and rural
industrialization. The Government is also encouraging workers
employed in towns and cities to continue to live in rural areas,
through improvements in transport and communication facilities.
Agricultural job creation is not in itself a major policy
objective, as demographic projections show that agricultural
underemployment will be of declining importance after the
mid-1980s.
(d) Self-sufficiency Strategy. The strategy outlined for
raising rural incomes will also tend to increase self-
sufficiency in foodstuffs, particularly grains, fruits, and
vegetables (and possibly lead to significant exports of
processed and specialty foods). As incomes rise, demand for
a more nutritious and varied diet is bound to increase.
Additional measures will be needed to influence the mix
of production, beginning with research (for example, on
wheat varieties which could be double-cropped with rice)
and including specially focused efforts in credit, extension,
marketing and processing.
29.       There is a well-developed consensus in Korea on the importance of
the above strategies and a clear chain of command from the Economic Planning
Board to the Ministries and, thence, to the Government corporations, cooperative
federations and provincial and county administrations, which implement the
projects needed to achieve them. Detailed quantitative targets have been set
under the Fourth Plan and the prospects for their achievement are good. Sector
knowledge is generally good, though further work is needed in areas such as
credit and marketing, livestock development, rural industrialization and the
appropriate development strategy for existing upland crop areas.



- 9 -
Government Policy and Bank Lending Strategy
30.       There is a close harmony of views between the Bank and the Govern-
ment on the overall objectives and strategies proposed for the rural sector
under the Fourth Plan. While views differ somewhat on the relative emphasis
to be given to various types of investment and on the technical design of
some projects, such differences are not profound and are likely to be resolved
with further dialogue and analysis.
31.       The Bank has been and should continue to be involved in most aspects
of Korea's rural development. The Bank so far has not been significantly
involved in rural industrialization, but studies now under way may suggest
lending opportunities in this subsector. The other rural development
activities may be classified as follows:
(a) land and water development;
(b) rural infrastructure; and
(c) agricultural industries and support services.
32.       Land and Water Development may be divided into two categories
(though individual projects may contain elements of both): investments to
increase the cultivable area and investments to increase the productivity
of existing cropland. Under the first category, tideland reclamation and
upland reclamation are the two major programs. While both types of develop-
ment yield high benefits in terms of incremental production, the unit costs
of tideland reclamation are so high that it is likely to be limited by
economic feasibility and budgetary constraints. The attractive economic
returns likely from upland reclamation must be balanced by the technical
problems of erosion and crop suitability, the solutions to which require
further field testing before such projects can be developed on a large scale.
Techniques for improving the productivity of existing cropland may be
classified according to the existing land use. Paddy land can be made more
productive by new or improved irrigation, land consolidation, drainage, river
training and the provision of farm and feeder roads. Existing upland areas
can be either converted to paddy land (requiring the concurrent provision of
irrigation, in most cases) or upgraded through a package of engineering
improvements and supporting services. Finally, forest land (most of which is
privately owned in small lots) can be made more productive in terms of
fuelwood, pulpwood, saw logs and other forest products.
33.       Rural Infrastructure activities may range from micro-scale improve-
ments to village drains and roofs to fairly sophisticated large-scale utility
or irrigation projects (the latter also fall into the Land and Water Develop-
ment category). Since 1971, Korea has undertaken a massive program of rural
infrastructure works under the Saemaeul Movement. This movement has gradually
broadened to include most rural (and some urban) development activities, but
has retained two essential features: decentralized decision-making, including
the participation of the beneficiaries; and self-help, either through volunteer
labor, a cash contribution or cost recovery charges. The Saemaeul Movement
aims to "modernize" the thinking of the villagers and to increase their
capacity to undertake projects with their own resources.



- 10 -
34.       Agricultural Support Services are well developed in Korea and
are generally meeting the needs of the farmers. However, further improvements
are needed mainly in extension, credit and marketing for special crops and
livestock.
35.       Bank financing in the rural sector was first directed at land and
water development (four projects for irrigation, including tideland recla-
mation). In recent years, the Bank has helped finance four projects to
improve agricultural industries and support services, such as the supply of
seeds and credit for special crops, livestock and food processing. The Bank
has also helped finance a rural infrastructure project which includes land
and water development components (irrigation, upland reclamation and fuelwood),
infrastructure components (roads and bridges, water supply and rural electri-
fication), and some assistance to support services (extension, soil conservation,
fuelwood research and hydrology).
36.       Bank projects for the next few years will continue to assist all
three areas and are likely to broaden to include a marketing project, multi-
purpose water resource projects and possibly assistance to rural industriali-
zation and communications. The proposed lending program would further the
objective of improving the distribution of income within the rural sector and
between rural and urban areas, though it must be borne in mind that income
distribution in Korea is already remarkably even. Only 14% of the rural
population are classified as being below the poverty income level for the
rural areas. The rural poor are a dispersed and not well defined group and
it would be difficult to design projects to benefit predominantly such a
'"target group." The real challenge for the future will be to keep labor
productivity in agriculture from lagging too far behind that in industry, to
prevent a growing disparity between rural and urban incomes. In that sense,
agricultural and rural development projects should be geared to meeting the
national objective of more equitable income distribution.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was prepared by the Agricultural Development
Corporation (ADC), with the assistance of consultants (Tahal, Israel) financed
under the Seeds Project (Loan 942-KO). The proposed project was appraised in
June 1977. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Ogseo Area Development Project
Stage I" (No. 1728-KO dated December 1, 1977) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held
in Washington from November 7 to 15, 1977 with a Korean delegation led by
Mr. Heung Koo Kang, Counselor at the Embassy of the Republic of Korea in
Washington.
38.       The proposed project would be adjacent to and would complement the
Kumgang Component of the Pyongtaek Kumgang Project (Loan 600-KO), which was
successfully completed by ADC in March 1976. High costs for land development
in areas with steep slopes led to a reduction in the project area, and actual
project costs were about 45% above appraisal estimates, largely due to
inflation. Nevertheless, increases in the international price of rice
compensated for the reduced area and higher cost so that the economic rate of
return is now estimated to be about the same as the appraisal estimate of
13%. ADC has incorporated the lessons learned about avoiding high cost land
development on steep slopes, and actual experience with project costs, in the
design and cost estimates for the proposed project.



- 11 -
39.       The project falls under the heading of land and water development
designed to help meet the country's rural income and self-sufficiency goals.
It is the first stage of a major plan for irrigation, drainage and tideland
reclamation in the lower reaches of the Geum River, the third largest in
Korea. The project would benefit 23,400 farm families on 12,300 ha through
irrigation and land development. Rice would be the main crop in the summer,
followed by a winter crop of barley on about 70% of the area. The principal
features of the project are summarized below:
(a) for newly irrigated areas (7,090 ha), construction of irrigation
facilities comprising nine pumping stations, 120 km of main and
70 km of secondary canals; and land development comprising land
consolidation on 3,070 ha, conversion of 1,510 ha of upland and
270 ha of forest to irrigated paddy, and tertiary canals and drains
on 2,240 ha of existing rainfed paddy land;
(b) for existing irrigated areas (3,710 ha), improvements to the
irrigation system over the entire area, drainage improvements
on 2,500 ha and land consolidation on 2,770 ha;
(c) for areas with improved water supply only (1,490 ha), the transfer
of the source of irrigation water from the Tabjeong Reservoir by
gravity to the Geum River by pumping;
(d) construction of a project field office and four subdivisional
offices;
(e) short-term consulting services to assist in project implementa-
tion and in preparation of feasibility studies for future irriga-
tion and area development projects; and
(f) overseas training for ADC staff.
The Project Area
40.       The project is located along the west coast of Korea about 160 km
south of Seoul (see Map). It encompasses parts of two counties in Chung
Cheong Nam Province and two main topographic areas: lowlands with slopes of
up to 2%, comprising about two thirds of the project area, which are located
in the alluvial plain of the Geum River and the narrow valleys spread around
the surrounding hills; and uplands, which lie along the surrounding foothills
and have been terraced for rice cultivation, except for 1,780 ha which are
under upland crops and forest. The project area lies in Korea's central
climatic zone and has about 200 frost-free days. Annual precipitation
averages about 1,200 mm with almost two thirds occurring during the rainy
season (June through September). Even in the summer, rainfall is unreliable,
especially during the critical rice transplanting period (June). In addition,
droughts sometimes occur in August and September. Irrigation is, therefore,
required to obtain optimum yields from high-yielding varieties of rice.
41.       The project area would be supplied with irrigation water from two
sources: the Geum River, regulated by the Daecheong Dam (under construction)



- 12 -
and the Nonsan River, regulated by the existing Tabjeong Dam. The water
available in the Geum River would be more than adequate to meet the needs of
the project. However, during the dry season, as a result of the reduced
discharge of the Geum, salt water intrusion occurs annually in the vicinity
of the proposed project. Because of a narrow constriction in the riverbed
just below Ganggyeong, only about 35 cu m/s of permanent flow would be required
at maximum tide to flush the salt interface downstream of that constriction.
Under the project, ADC would carry out salinity measurements at the constric-
tion to confirm the exact amount of maintenance flow required. The Government
has agreed to guarantee releases from the Daecheong Dam sufficient to provide
this maintenance flow, plus 30 cu m/s required in June each year for irrigation
in the proposed project area as well as the existing Kumgang Project (Sec-
tion 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). At present, during periods
of low flows from the Geum River early in the main rice-growing season, water
is made available to the Kumgang Project from the Tabjeong Reservoir. When
the Daecheong Dam is completed in 1980, sufficient fresh water will be
available in the Geum River at all times to meet the needs of the Kumgang
Project as well as about 5,000 ha of other new and existing irrigation. The
storage at Tabjeong would, thus, be available to fully irrigate new areas.
42.       No data on the runoff of the Nonsan River are available, although
water level records of the Tabjeong Reservoir have been kept for several
years. The lack of data precluded a detailed operation study to optimize
the size of the service area with respect to the runoff and storage at the
dam. However, ADC follows conservative policies in planning irrigation
projects. Nominally, the systems are designed to meet full irrigation
demands in nine years out of ten. This is because strict compliance with
project charges can be expected only if farmers have a high degree of con-
fidence in their water supply. Comparison of water supply and demand in
the case of the Tabjeong Dam shows that there would be no difficulty in meeting
the water demand for rice and barley during an average year, though a short-
age is likely to occur in a 1:10 dry year. Because of the relatively small
storage in the Tabjeong Reservoir relative to the catchment area, it is
important to operate the Tabjeong Dam most efficiently to reduce the possi-
bility of water shortage while serving as large an area as possible, to
minimize the need to pump water from the Geum. For this purpose, accurate
data on runoff in the catchment are needed. ADC would, therefore, establish a
gauging station on the Nonsan River above the dam and rainfall stations in
the catchment area to measure the rainfall and runoff in the Nonsan Basin.
The estimation of runoff volumes will be facilitated when the improvement in
hydrologic services is effected under the Rural Infrastructure Project I
(Loans 1216 and 1218T-KO). Based on these data, ADC would prepare operating
rules for the Tabjeong Reservoir. ADC agreed to submit these operating rules
to the Bank for review and comment by December 1982 (Section 3.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Detailed Features of the Project
43.       Pumping Stations.   The project would be served by five main and
four relift electrical pumping stations with individual motor capacity varying



- 13 -
between 150 and 3,000 hp and a total installed capacity of 13,000 hp. Two of
the main pumping stations, Duribong and Bonghwa, would be connected to exis-
ting main canals to irrigate the lower parts of the project area with water
from the Geum River. In order to minimize the length of expensive connecting
pipes required, the preliminary designs call for dredging a 4.5 km stretch
of the Nonsan River and relocation of the intake of the existing Ganggyeong
pumping station. However, ADC is considering an alternative means of
supplying water from the Geum to these two pumping stations without dredging,
by means of one or two low-lift pumps and feeder canals. The alternative is
likely to prove less expensive to construct, operate and maintain. ADC
agreed to complete its study of the low-lift pumping alternative by June 30,
1978, and discuss the results with the Bank, before preparing final designs
for the two pumping stations (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       Main and Secondary Canals.   The total length of new main irriga-
tion canals would be about 120 km of which 21 km would consist of tunnels,
flumes, culverts and siphons. The length of new secondaries would be about
70 km. About 60 km of main and secondary drainage canals will be constructed
or improved.
45.       Land Development.   This would consist of:
(a) Land Consolidation, which includes the replacement of the existing,
uneven pattern of small, irregular plots with larger, level plots
in a rectangular grid of ditches, drains and farm roads, on 2,770 ha
of existing irrigated paddy land and 3,070 ha of newly irrigated
paddy land where slopes are less than 2%. On steeper land,
consolidation cannot generally be justified because earth moving
costs become prohibitive. The advantages of land consolidation
are that (i) it facilitates mechanical land preparation, (ii) it
allows easier access to the fields and improved standards of farm
management, and (iii) it allows more efficient control of irrigation
and drainage. The improvements in crop and water management
should result in higher rice yields. Also, more timely land
preparation combined with effective drainage at the end of the
rice growing season would facilitate the planting of a winter
barley crop. These benefits have accrued to farmers on the large
areas of irrigated land which have already been consolidated in
Korea.
(b) Drainage Improvement, which would be carried out on 2,500 ha of
presently irrigated land, of which 940 ha is already consolidated.
These improvements would accelerate disposal of surface water
at the end of the rice growing season, which would facilitate the
planting of barley.
(c) On-farm Development (without land consolidation), which would be
carried out on 2,240 ha of existing rainfed paddy land with slopes
above 2%. These areas are generally too narrow and would be too
expensive to justify consolidation. Consequently, they would
be supplied only with tertiary irrigation and drainage canals.
Construction and improvement of quaternary canals would be carried
out by the farmers. It is common practice in Korea for farmers
jointly to construct on-farm distribution systems.



- 14 -
(d) Conversion of Uplands and Forest to Paddy on 1,780 ha under
command of the main canals where slopes are less than 12%. The
areas to be developed.are generally narrow strips of land with
widths averaging about 150 m, which have been carefully selected
to ensure that soils are suited to paddy cultivation and to avoid
disturbing high-value crops and orchards. They would be converted
into a series of horizontal benches with widths ranging from 10 to
20 m, depending on the slope. ADC has successfully carried out
this type of development on a number of projects in recent years.
46.       Equipment and Buildings,   The project would provide survey, testing,
communication and transport equipment required for engineering and supervision
of the project works, as well as for construction of an office and laboratory
in Nonsan and four subdivisional offices.
47.       Consultants and Training.   ADC would employ senior experts for short-
term visits to assist in project implementation and in preparing feasibility
reports for two future projects. The estimated consultant input is 18 man-
months for project implementation and 15 man-months for the feasibility
studies. The estimated cost is $8,000 per man-month. Funds are also included
for training selected ADC staff in the fields of hydrology, irrigation and
drainage, and agricultural economics. Nine overseas fellowships are proposed
at a total cost of about $120,000.
Project Cost and Financing
48.       The total project cost is estimated at $76 million, with a foreign
exchange component of $36 million (47%). Physical contingencies of 15%
have been applied to the base cost estimate for civil works, materials and
equipment. The expected price increases over the implementation period
amount to about 24% of base cost plus physical contingencies and assume the
following annual rates of price inflation for local and foreign costs: civil
works 9% in 1978-79 and 8% in 1980-82; equipment and services 7.5% in 1978-79
and 7% in 1980-82. The proposed Bank loan of $36 million would finance the
full foreign exchange cost. Local expenditures, representing the estimated
balance of project costs, would be met through annual government budgetary
allocations to ADC. Detailed cost estimates are given in the Loan and Project
Summary.
Procurement
49.       Contracts for civil works construction and the supply of equipment
and materials would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. The total value of all
civil works contracts (including physical contingencies but excluding price
contingencies) would be about $41 million. Civil works would be packaged
together by areas to form about four contracts with an average value of
about $10 million. Major equipment contracts would be for the manufacture
and installation of pumping station equipment ($4 million). Contracts for
cement and reinforcing steel would be spread out over the implementation
period to keep the supply of materials in line with requirements. The
domestic construction industry has grown rapidly in recent years and has
demonstrated considerable capacity and competence to perform major public
works in Korea as well as overseas. Most local contractors are well equipped
and are expected to be the successful bidders on all civil works contracts



- 15 -
under the project. ADC's policy is to supply contractors with the cement and
steel to be incorporated in the works. Materials and equipment would be
procured on behalf of ADC by the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK).
A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
the evaluation of bids. Miscellaneous equipment ($100,000) would be purchased
through normal government procurement procedures.
Disbursements
50.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment and materials, or at the rate of
100% of ex-factory cost for equipment and materials manufactured locally. For
consulting services and training, disbursements would equal 100% of total
expenditures. Disbursements for civil works would be at 50% of total expendi-
tures, to be made against monthly contractors' progress payments. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed by June 1983, one year after
the scheduled completion of all project works. The disbursement schedule is
given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Organization and Management
51.       The Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), a semi-autonomous
agency operating under the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF), would
be responsible for project implementation. The designs of the engineering
works are in sufficient detail to provide a basis for accurate quantity
estimates. In preparing these designs, ADC has drawn from its experience on
the Pyongtaek-Kumgang and Yong San Gang (Loan/Credit 795/283-KO) irrigation
projects. Responsibility for supervision of the civil works would rest with
an Ogseo Project Office to be set up by ADC in Nonsan. The office would be
headed by a senior staff member of ADC who would serve as project manager and
be directly responsible to one of ADC's Directors. ADC would establish four
subdivisional offices to supervise construction of new irrigation facilities,
while supervision of improvement works in the presently irrigated areas would
be handled directly from the Nonsan office. By February 1, 1978, ADC would
establish the Ogseo Project Office headed by a project manager whose qualifi-
cations and experience are acceptable to the Bank, and by July 1, 1978 would
cause the Ogseo Project Office to be operating at Nonsan (Section 3.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
52.       Agricultural services in the project area are well organized and
would adequately support the farmers in realizing the benefits of improved
irrigation and land development. The Office of Rural Development (ORD) is
the agency in MAF responsible for research and extension. ORD's extension
work is carried out through provincial, county and township offices. The
two county ORDs serving the project area have sufficient extension workers
and specialists in crops, livestock, soils, plant protection and farm
management to meet the needs of the project.
53.       Almost all supplies of inputs and credit originating from government
sources are supplied through the cooperative system. Some 90% of farmers in
the project area are members of cooperatives serving individual townships.



- 16 -
These primary cooperatives are successively grouped into county cooperative
federations and ultimately the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
(NACF). NACF anticipates no difficulties in providing the farmers participating
in the proposed project with the additional quant-ities of seed and fertilizer
needed. At present, project area farmers finance about 70% of farm inputs and
hired labor from their own resources and the remainder from NACF short-term
credit. As a result of abundant harvests and high grain prices in the past two
years there is substantial liquidity in the project area and the amount of
production credit supplied by moneylenders, millers and relatives appears to
be small. Medium-term credit, mainly for power tillers, is also available
from the township cooperatives. NACF should have no difficulty in providing
the increased credit needed to support the project.
54.       Responsibility for operation and maintenance of existing irrigation
projects in Korea rests with the Farmland Improvement Associations (FLIA).
The Nonsan FLIA presently operates 9,500 ha, and would be expanded to cover
the additional 7,090 ha to be developed by the project. The FLIA would
operate and maintain the irrigation systems, schedule water deliveries,
allocate and collect project charges, and enter into cooperative arrangements
with other agencies, such as NACF and ORD, for various kinds of assistance to
the farmers. The pumping stations proposed under the project would be
operated and maintained by ADC, but the costs would be borne by the FLIA.
The annual financial cost of management, operation and maintenanca of the
project works in January 1978 prices is estimated at W 75,000 ($155)/ha.
ADC would submit to the Bank for review and comment, by December 31, 1979, a
detailed plan for the operation and maintenance of the project, including
proposals for turning over the new irrigation service area works to the
Nonsan FLIA (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Safety of Dams
55.       Although the Daecheong and Tabjeong dams would not be financed under
the project, these structures would be essential to its success. Both dams
exceed 10 m in height above the streambed, create a reservoir with a
gross storage volume of more than 2.5 million cubic meters, and are situated
so as to be significantly destructive in the unlikely event of failure.
The Government has agreed to make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
the two dams to be periodically inspected to ensure their safety, and would
submit such arrangements to the Bank for review by June 30, 1979 (Section 3.03
of the Draft Guarantee Agreement).
Cost Recovery
56.       Korea has a well established system of charges applying to
government-planned land development projects. These charges are split into
recurrent or O&M costs, and capital repayments. While farmers must pay full
annual O&M costs, the capital repayment terms vary according to the type of
land development. For example, for irrigation works farmers repay 30% of
capital costs at 3.5% interest p.a. over 30 years after an initial 5-year
grace period (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Incremental



- 17 -
project charges, discounted at 10% and assuming no inflation over the
project's life, would be sufficient to recover 26% of total costs. At an
annual inflation rate of 10% the cost recovery index would be 20%.
Environmental Effects
57.       Experience in Korea has demonstrated that the development of
irrigation in the project area would have no adverse effects on the environ-
ment. Drainage improvement in existing irrigated areas would reduce the
amount of stagnant water and, thus, reduce hazards from water-associated
diseases. Chemical fertilizers, insecticides and pesticides are already
widely used in Korea, even in rainfed areas.
Project Benefits and Risks
58.       The project, which would directly benefit some 23,400 farm families,
or approximately 130,000 people, would support the Government's efforts to
increase food grain production and rural income through irrigation and land
development. The project is in a rice surplus area with about half the
present production being consumed on the farm and the remainder sold primarily
through the county cooperatives. Implementation of the project would lead
to changes in land use and more intensive cropping and higher yields on
presently cultivated land. It would increase rice production to 52,000 tons
compared with 29,800 tons at present, and barley production to 21,000 tons
from 6,100 tons. At full agricultural development, the project would result
in annual net foreign exchange savings of $8.0 million.
59.       The project's economic rate of return would be 12%, using a
50-year evaluation period with full project benefits being attained by 1986,
4 years after completion of all project works. By itself, this would appear
to be marginal for Korea. However, there is a strong additional justification
for the project on social grounds. The project falls squarely within the
Government's policy framework of alleviating the disparities between rural
and urban incomes and discouraging migration to the cities. As noted earlier,
about 45% of Korea's total labor force still depends on the agricultural
sector for its livelihood despite the rapid industrial growth in the past
decade. The large majority of the beneficiaries under the proposed project
derive the greater part of their income from farming and 40% have incomes at
or below the absolute poverty level of $200 in 1977 prices. At full develop-
ment, the project would increase this group's income by about 30%. Income on
an 0.25 ha farm would increase from $640 to $800 p.a. while on a 1.7 ha farm
the increase would be from $2,150 to $3,000. The project would enable
farmers in the area to almost maintain the relative positions of their income
with regard to the national average per capita income. Without the project,
this income gap would widen. The project will also have an impact on the
problem of urban migration, since beneficiaries would have a greater incentive
to remain in the rural sector, and indirectly result in a saving on the
expenditures on urban facilities and services which would be induced if the
beneficiaries moved to the cities.
60.       It should also be pointed out that the estimated economic rate of
return has been based on cautious and conservative assumptions regarding both
yields and water availability. No attempt was made to quantify the benefits



- 18 -
from the 1,490 ha which would receive a more assured water supply. Moreover,
the project area has been sized to provide an assured water supply in nine
years out of ten, and expected benefits have been estimated accordingly. In
practice, as observed in Korea and other countries in the Region, farmers
outside the 12,300 ha area on which the water supply requirements were based
would use the extra water available in average and wet years to enlarge the
area under irrigation. Thus, the area actually benefiting from the project
is likely to be significantly more than 12,300 ha in most years.
61.       The economic rate of return showed most sensitivity to construction
cost overruns and changes in incremental rice yields at full development.
Since recent experience with actual costs in similar Bank-financed projects
was taken into account in the cost estimates, and 15% physical contingencies
were included, it is unlikely that cost overruns would be so large as to
reduce the rate of return significantly. On the other hand, if incremental
rice yields at full development are only 200 kg/ha higher than the best
estimate, the rate of return would be 13%. Similarly, a 20% increase in the
price of rice will result in a rate of return of 15%. The two variables -
costs and yields - would be the focus of attention for project management and
supervision missions in the course of project implementation.
Risks
62.       The largest element of risk concerns the timely availability of
adequate water supplies from the Daecheong Dam. This has been allowed for
in the design of the project by scheduling the completion of newly irrigated
areas at least one year after the scheduled completion of the Daecheong dam,
and by an assurance that the Government would guarantee sufficient releases
from the dam to keep the salt water interface downstream of Ganggyeong, as
well as to satisfy irrigation requirements. (Section 3.02 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). Other project risks are no greater than can normally
be expected with operations of this type.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Agricultural
Development Corporation, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
of Korea and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text
of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. The Loan and Guarantee Agreements follow
the pattern of the Bank agreements for loans of this kind. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III of this report.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART.VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 7, 1977






A2NEX I
TABLE 3A                                   Page 1 of 4 pages
KOREA  REP.         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ---------------------------------------------
___ ___ _ _ ___                                  KOREA  REP.                         REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL        98.5                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       24.4                      1960       1970   ESTlMATE          THAILAND       TURKEY         JAPAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     120.0*    280.0 *   670.0/a*            210.0 *     500.0 *   2630.0 *
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           25.0       32.2      36.0/a              36.3       35.6       104.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      244.0      327.0     365.0/a             71.0        46.0       280.0
PER 50. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      1191.0     1371.0    1475,Or              263.0       65.0      1744.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         39.7       35.0      28.e                44.3       40.6        17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          22.9       11.4       8.9                i3.7        14.4        7.i
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        82.9/a       .       38.0               BO.0       153.0 /a     x3.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       56.cY      65,0      68.0               55.5        54.4 -      71.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1        2.6       2.4                 3.2        2.6 IbC     1.0
POPULArtION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.8        2.3        1.8                3.1        2.5         10
URBAN                                 5.9        6.4       5.4                 4.9        4.9 Id      4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          28.0       41.2       48.5               15.0        38.7       84.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       40.5       42.1      39.9               45.1        41.7        24.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.7       54.5      56.7                51.8       54.0        68.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.8        3.4       3.4                 3.1        4.3         7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0                     0.8                0.9         0.9        0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1i.5L,     1.4        1.2 lb             1.1         1.1 |e     0.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..     4424.7    7404.7              470.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..      42.0       34.o               13.0        8.2.
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         7500.0    10200.0    13100.0/a C        16700.0    14500.0 /f 53300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         66.0      50.4/a      44.6Kt             79.0       67.0        19.0
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)           9.0        4.r        3.Ya                ..         4.0 /a     1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
_ _-_----_ ---------
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST   5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           17.0 /d    17.1       18.1 /d            22.0       32.8 /h     14.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            4t-973'    44.5      43.41U              5.1       60.6 7      37.6
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             7.4 '      7.1       7.2 1              5.6         2.9         8.8
LOwEsT  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            19.5       17.7      18.7 7J             14.3        9.4        22.3
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS           27.0       28.0 o                                    53.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          3.0        2.0 o                                     C.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             3220.0    2110.0     2100.0              7970.0     2250.0       890.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        32250.Le 2170.0/b    14400              6050.0     1770.0/i     240.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          2310. 1T 0so.0       1760.u~              890.0      500.0-       80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES I% OF REQUIRtEMENTS)        85.0     113.0      112.0               103.0      110.0       106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              53 .       65 50     69.O/f              52.0       78.0        76.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         13.0 f     19.0         ..               17.oa      22.O a      45.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         .1 ..                       14.7/k       1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       98.0      104.0      109.0              61.0       109.0       100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     27.0       41.0       59.0               16.0       20.0        91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0      12.0                12.0       11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% Of SECONDARY)                     14.0       16.0       17.0               14.0 /b    14.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                  8. 07.0            92.0La              79.0       55.01       99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                           2.7         ..9                                      1.o
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                      88.0/h     80.0 /c   57.0/h                         64.0         5.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                      /
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 28.0      50.0                                      41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (1)                   12.0       30.0      64.9/i                ..       18.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         32.0      126.0     127.0               78.0        89.0       551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU PoP)           0.4        2.0       2.0                5.0         4.0        e4.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           71.0      307.0    600.0               124.0       247.0      3391.8
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               1.8        3.5       4.8                 1.0        0.7        18.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEIX I
Page 2 of 6 pages
Unlesa otherwise acted.d, dai  for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, and for Moat Recent Letimate between
197 o-d 1975.
*CNiP per capitte data are ha..ef on the world Dank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis),
*Japan ha. been eeleited a. en objective country due to the simnilarity of the pree..ot Korean economic str.ctore to that of Japan in the nid-fiftiec
(with the sane principle   eouo    h..e I.e., efficient, induanrious, cheap jaokr sod heavy relionne on impacted ra-       aere)       Moreover, aDri-
coitore, trna.porn ond other sectors of the ecmonoy have similar characteriatice,       Kore.aldie  hao o pattern of ioduotriel development which ie not
vey different fron the one Japan purae.d with grect eucceae in the aixtiesa.
KCtE', REP.    16)60   /c  1957:     lb  1950-55;     Ic  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force ;       id  Wage. and aelary
incone of h.ooholda, for 1964,      /-  Registered, not all practicing in the country;       If   1962,    L&  Refer to houacholda;
lbt Octet piped inside.
1970    /a   A. pertentege of employment;     lb   Registared, not all prettiting in the country,      In   wiater piped Inside.
40S7 RECENT ESTDIATER     Ia   1976;    lb  Ratio Of Populetion coder 15 end over to total lebor force.,       Ic  Labor force age 14 end waer
(Enploymeat, in agriculture as a percentage Of employment); Id     1971,    Is  Regietered, nor all working in
the country:     If  1969-7 1 average;     /it Tan yacr. cod ove_r,    Ih   Perceetgeg of households;     /1   Rurel
electrification rato.
THAILAND       1970    Ia   1964-66;    /b  Public schools * which includes technical adocation at the p.ot-seoondary-iLvsl.
TURKEY         1970    la, 1967;     /b  Excludes 17 ecaster  prmvintes;     Ic   1965-67;    jd   1965-70    je  Eerie of population under 15 sand 65 and over
to laker force 15 years and over;      If  15 yeers end over, sexcludes oep loysd;       La  Regisetred only;      /h  Disposable
muons;     Li   Including assistant nureasaend midwives;,     fi   1964-66;     1k  1967-68,    Li Persona aim yearn end over who
tell the cameos takens that they ten read and write.
R13, September 9, 1977
flZPmtnOsu OP SOCIAL. flICATO5
Land Area (thou ho2)                                                                   Population Pear nurses parson - Population divided by masker of practicing
To-tal - Total eurf-c area   onprising lIed inn end inland waters,                       mlal wAn feoals graduate Ourias5 'trained" an  eertifled" sune, and
nAgric. .- Moa  r.eat estimats of agricultura  area, -d tnpararily or Pen-               ancillary pereenm1 with training an empaniace.
mee tly foe crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie della'.              Population sen hospital had - Population divided by enter of hoa pita1 beds
svilable in public and private general sand ipcialised hospital sed
flip pen .seita 10001 - iip pen capita estimtate  at current market Prices *             rehabilitation ceetere; ecludiaes nrsing horns aed establiahmeneti for
calculated by ae   cMeversion metbed as rleId Banb Atlas (1973-75 beata) ;custodial end prevetive ears.
1960. 1970 and 1975 data.                                                            Per caPita it,plr of   Intlonis   oftare is   a   - Compucted iron energy
squiralant ni met food   ;: supies syilable in no,asry pen capita par day;
?ponlectio sad vItal stetiotl                                                            -vileble supplies Oonprlse doaestl.o production, imports lsa esporta, sad
Population lad-veer ailion)      A. of July first:  if net ovaileble, -vrage             changes is stock; -ego supplie  eclude animal feed, seeds, quanntitiso usd
of ow  end-peer earloetes; l'60, 1970 end 1975 data,                                   in food proci..sing and loses, in diatribstio. rsqsuiremnots wer estimated
by PAD based on physiological needs for normal activity and health repa id-
population denai%.ty  pr .=urs be - Mid-year population per square kilonstan             aring snviromeatal tin.parature, body waeighta, age end ia. distribustions of
(lithooarna  oftota  an.ppuato,ndalig 11 fa                                                                          er a    oshold leve.
Fponolti%td d aity - anr euaria  be of aerie. leand - Csputad es aboes for             Percate supply o'f proti      n      a     )-Poti       otn     fprcpt
agricultural lend only.                                                                net supply Of food per day; nt suppl"o    food is defined as above; require-
-mote foen all o  tia etablished by tUSDA Keononi. RSassah larvices
Vital statistics                                                                         provide far a minimum aowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and
Crud birh sae pe  thousand. vavrage - AMecaI ILiv  hirth. par thousand of            20 g,asa of ainial end pulse prorate, of which 10 gr     should he aninsi
old-y.ar population, tee-year srichostic averages ending In 1960 and 1970,              prectin; these standards are lo,ser than those of 75 gram  of atitl prortei
and fin-earove      agending in 1975 f or met recet estimat.                           said 23 Scam of animal pootein a. an everage for the weld, proposed by, yAt
Crude donth rate per thousand. vavrase - Anonsal dwstha Per thousand of mid-year          in rho Third world Food Survey.
population; tes-yasr arithmetic averagas ending in 1960 end 1970 and fivea-          Par "Psita acotain semnllv iron animal and pulse - Nrotate aupply of fond
y.ar -uergs ending in 1971 Los nest renant eatimat.                                    derived fern animals end pulawa in gram   per day.
Infotc nortality rate fltho.) - kwoual dasth. of infants -dter Mass year of age        Death rate f/then) sass 1-4 - AMnuaI deatha per thousan d in age group 1-4.
per thousand live bi,rho.                                                              years, to childre  in this gag grasp; suggested as an indicator of
Life eapacaent a.  t birth (yral - Average asabar of years ad life remaining at          malnutritica.
birth; usaMlly fiva-year averaes. .%ding in 1960, 1970 sod 1975 far develop-
ing co,otniea.                                                                       Eduation
Cross repoeduction rate - Average mober of live daughters a wone    will hear           hdlusted enrollmenat castio- primacshool - Enrollmet of all ags". Pasre-
in her norma reproductive period if she experiences present age-pspeific               cottage of pri-ery scol-r      ceu   aio; Includes  hildro, gagd 6-11 ye.ar
fertility rates; nusity fiv-year avrages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjusted foe different lengthe of primary education; fan cawetrdas with
for developing  -utrise.                                                                OnLversal education, enurollment nay emceed 10071 since ama pupils are below
Population ornath rete iZI - total - Compounad aenoal grath raton of aid-year             or abowe the official school age.
population ion 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                          Adlustsd enreltat ratio - secondser school - Conptred as above ; secondary
Population growth rate (t) - urban - tonputad like grontb rats of total                   education requiree at lease foor yuan_ of epprovad primary instruotine.
population; difieret dsfioltions of scbs   area map    ffeot sonparbility of            provides general, vectional or teacher   -inning instructione don pupIs
data, among caustries.                                                                  of 12 to 17 years of age; Carreapandanta courses are generally eoleded.
Urban population it of total) - Ratio of ur'ban t to ital population; different         Years ofahnia       oie     frt an second levels) - Tata1 ysars of
definitions of orbm areas my effet cPotsarbility of data oang cauntriss.                ihoag;at a             Fedr  level, vocational imetcuction na  be pattis1ip or
Ass atruoturo (pr.cat) - Childre   (0-li peers), working-age (15-64 ypear) ,            vocationl enrolment (t ad ...condarvo - Vca-tiona   inatittions inclode
ad reired (65 pears end even) as peract.ags ef aid-y-s population.                    techeical, industrial or etber pragem   which operate independently or as
Age demandeocy ratio.  Ratio of population under 11 and 65 and ove to those               departments of secondary inatitutions .
of agec 15 th-ogh 64.                                                                 Adult literacy rate Ct) - Literate adults (able to red and wits) as per-
t.ononic dependency ratio - tetic of population under 15 and 65 sod over to               centage of natal adult population aged 15 years sad ever.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
fondly plannin  -_conet"' ocnlaie thou) - CuoncltI-e focnban of sce.epror               jous j9
of birth-control devices under sa-Pic.. of national fatily pianning progren           Persona Par noon furbanl - Average nmbser of prersona  prcoon in occupied
.irce i-cption.                                                                         conventional dwellings in urbanaras    dwellings sexclude son-permanent
Fasily platting - user ft of married wMonn) - Percentages of married wOe. of              structures and unoccupied parts.
child-hearing ege  1-4yas       who us bireh-rontrel devices to all married           0ccuPied dwellings  ithout Piped:water It) - Occupied conenione1 dwellings
Lo.mi  ams age group.                                                                ioraenruleeswthtiside or ontside piped usrtr facilities
as pecnaeof all ocoupiad dweltlgs.
EuplOYWen.hsst                                                                                    lcner t        of all dwaellinsl - Cooventional dwellings wink
Toti1 labor froe. (thousand)  E-eton   -acall  active parons-, InldIgsend                 electricity in living quarters as peanot ad itotl dwellinge in urban and
forces end unmepnyad but anluding housewives, students, arc.; definitions               rural areas..
is various coa _ni Mae nt Onparebt.                                                Ec-1 dwellings connected to al1otricity     C    om- eptced as above far rural
Labor frce isrioulcurs At grituitu-a           labor force. (in farming, foretry,         dwsllings only.
hun1tin.g and fishing) as percentage of total laker forc..
PnMplye ft of labor fares)     t- U I.pad are osustly defined as Pen-a wha            Consumption
are lki and w11illig to take ajob, out of a jab 05 a given day, remasined out       Radiorcieafa         hupe          l  ye    frciesfrrdokodet
of a job, sod seeking work f or a specified ntisinas peniod non .ac.eding one           tognea     pbic per thousand Of Population; annides unLicensedreivs
week; my nor he companable betwaee omatrios due to different deinitions                 in eactnies end In pears when registration of radio eats was in effect;
ofunmeployed end sorce of data, e.g.,     piospeent offce statistics. ample            data for recen.t years may nor he  ,parable stems most retries abolished
Psa,a.roar fpear thou sow) -PsagrtscOnprias meter car                asing
late    distribution- Percentage of privet. incaise (both in cah end kind)                loethneght parsen; excludes esbasl        es, hearses and military
received by richest 5t, richest 20t, poorest ZDt, And pooreet 401 ad hone-              vehicins.
holds,                                                                                Elsctricitv (kekylr ear caP) - Annual consumption of idutrint1l cemercial,
Public end private electricity in kilowatt honts per tapirs, generally
Dlianributivo of land owneshi -Perceoteges of land ownd by wealthiest lOt                 baned on production data, without allowance for losss in grids hot sllow-
end pooret lit of land maae.og for imports and exporta, of electriity.
Newsprint (hg/r earcap) - pen capIta a.nc.I consption in kilagram
haloIt and Nutrition                                                                      estimated feon d     tic Production, Plus net imports ef newaprint.
PopulatIon par phvaiciae - Population divided by nusher of practicing
phyofoi.sc qualified Pron a medical school at university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOIC DEVELOPMT DATA SHEeT
Actual                            Eat.    Projected            Grovth Rates 1
1965     1970     1972      1973      1974     1975       1976     1982       1965-73  1973-75  1976-82  1982-86
A. National Accounts
(Million US$ at 1975 prices)
1. GDP                         6,953.9  11,714.7  13,900.8  16,233.7  17,655.4  19,089.2  21,941.7  36,846.9    11.2      8.4      9.0     9.8
2. Gains Ero. TOT                142.5    668.9   1,145.3   1,517.0    543.6     _       1,027.0    2,547.8       -        -        -        -
3. Gross Domestic Income       7,096.4  12,384.6  15,046.1  17,750.7  18,199.0  19,089.2  22,968.7  39,394.7     12.1     3.7      9.4     10.3
4.  Imports (goods and NFS)      988.9  4,254.3   5,301.4   7,203.0  7,438.2   7,463.8   9,236.7   22,583.3      28.2     1.8     16.1     15.9
5.  Exports volume               389.4  1,849.0   3,125.4   5,021.1  4,745.2   5,679.1   8,158.3   20,305.5      37.4     6.4     16.4     16.0
6. Exports (adjusted for TOT)    531.9  2,417.9   4,270.6   6,538.1  5,288.8   5,679.1   9,185.3   22,853.3      36.4    -7.0     16.4     16.0
7. Resource Gap (adjusted for
TOT)                       457.0   1,736.4  1,030.8     664.9   2,149.4  1,728.1       51.4    -270.0
8. Total consumption           6,809.2  10,655.5  12,606.7  14,264.7  15,181.0  15,381.0  16,439.1  27,778.4      9.7     3.8      9.1      8.6
9. Investment                    926.7   3,308.9  3,134.1   4,327.5  5,167.4   5,120.7    5,977.0  11,351.3      21.2     8.8     11.3     14.0
10. Domestic savings (adjusted
for TOT)                   287.2   1,729.1  2,439.4   3,486.0  3,018.0   3,708.2   6,529.6   11,616.3      36.7     3.1     10.1     14.2
11. GDP at current US$          2,996.5  8,238.9   9,835.8  12,457.8  16,863.1  19,089.2  25,276.7  60,819.5      19.5    24.0     15.7     18.4
B. Sector Output
(Share of GDP at 1975 prices)
1. Agriculture, Forestry  and
Fisheries                  0.462    0.330     0.292     0.264    0.256     0.249     0.236      0.152
2. Mining and Manufacturing      0.137    0.023     0.230    0.257     0.276     0.291     0.327      0.342
3. Other                         0.401    0.467     0.478    0.479     0.467     0.460     0.437      0.506
C. Prices (1975-100)
1. Export Price Index (US$)       66.4     66.0      66.4     78.9     108.0     100.0     111.8      149.8
2. Import Price Index (USS)       48.6     48.5      48.6     60.6      96.9     100.0      99.3      133.1
3. Terms of Trade Index          136.6    136.1     136.6     130.2    111.5     100.0     112.6      112.5
4. GDP Deflator                   43.1     70.3      70.8      76.7     95.5     100.0     115.2      165.1
5. Average Exchange Rate         266.2    310.4     394.0     398.6    405.9     485.0     485.0      485.0
D. Selected Indicators             1965-72    1973-75     1976-82            E.                                     1965   1970    1975    1982
1. ICOR /a                          2.05       4.42        3.53             1.   Labor force (million)             8.9    10.2    12.3    15.3
2. Import Elasticity                2.52 /b    0.21        1.79             2.   Unemployment (2 of E.1)            7.9    4.9     4.1     3.4
3. Average Domestic Savings Rate   0.12        0 19        0.27             3.   Employment (million)              8.2     9.7    11.8    14.8
4. Marginal Domestic Savings
Rate                          0.27       0.17        0.31                             (X shares)
5. Imports/GDP                     0.32        0.42        0.53             3.1  Agriculture, Forestry, Fiaheries  58.6   50.5    45.9    37.8
6. Investment/GDP                   0.20       0.28        0.29             3.2 Mining, Manufacturing              10.4    14.3   19.1    23.7
7. Resource Gap/GDP                 0.13       0.09        0.00             3.3  Other                             31.0   35.2    35.0    38.5
F. Public Pinance (X of GDP)         1965    1970     1972     1973    1974     1975     1982
1. Current Revenue                  13.2    17.5     18.2     13.9    15.3     17.4     25.5
1.1 Tax Revenue                      7.3    14.3     12.3     11.6    13.3     15.1     17.3
2. Current Expenditure               9.0    11.5     11.9     9.6     10.5     11.1     18.6
2.1 Defense Expenditures             3.7     4.0      4.5      3.7     4.3      4.8     6.5
3. Government Savings               4.2      6.0      6.3     4.3      4.8      6.3     6.9
4. Capital Expenditures              2.7     5.8      6.2      3.6     4.4      5.5      5.0
/a Calculated on a one-year lag.
/b  Calculated for 1965-73.                                                                                               March 23, 1977



ANNEX I
Page 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
($ million at current prices)
Actual                Estimated                        Pro1ected
1972     1973      1974     1975       1976        1978          1980         1982          1986
Summary Balance of Payments
Exports (incl. NFS)                2,075    3,962     5,125    5,679      9,121     13,827        20,879        30,417        66,942
Imports (incl. NFS)                2,577    4,368     7,209    7,464      9,172     13,981        20,747        30,058        65,958
Resource balance (X-H)              -502     -406    -2,084   -1,785        -51        -155          132           359           984
Interest (net) /a                   -138     -166      -229     -399       -380       -583          -719          -807        -1,053
Direct investment income lb           -2         1       -8       -5        -24         -22          -52           -90          -165
Other factor income (net)            101       72        74       76        -49          35          -12           -80          -100
Current transfers (net)              170      190       224       226       230         225           250          250           250
Balance on current accounts         -371     -309    -2,023   -1.887       -274       -500          -400          -368           -84
Private direct investment /c          74      137       104       53         70         220         260            300           385
Official capital grants               87       61        64        -         -           -           -              -             -
Public H4LT loans /d
Disbursements                      735      757     1,155    1,687      1,662      2,178         2,295         2,301         4,433
- Repayments                         289      334       391      368        590         888        1,055         1,387         2,102
Net disbursements                    446      423       764    1,319      1.072      1,290         1.240           914         2.331
Other M6LT loans
Disbursements                       49       71       174       85         98         150          150           150           163
- Repayments                          10       15        23       28         34         120          188           196           213
Net disbursements                     39        56      151       57         64          30          -38           -46           -50
Capital transactions n.e.i. /f      -116      -28       955 /R   951 14     -82
Change in foreign exchange
reserves (- - increase)           -159     -340       -15     -493     -1,398
Actual             Bst.
Grant and Loan Commitments                                                                                                1972   1973    1974   1975   1976
Debt and debt services
Official grants and grant-like        87        61       64        -         -
Public debt out. & disbursed    2,691   3,199  3,982  5,227   6,299
Public H6LT loans                                                                        (end of period)
IBRD                                73      150        85      382.5      372         Interest on public debt          120    150    201     290    325
LDA                                 26       20        -        -          -          Repayments on public debt       289     334    391     368    590
ADB                                 68       46        89       101.5     114          Total public debt service       409    484     592    658    915
Governoents                        431       311      446       250       731          Other debt service (net)         23     33      54     60     71
Suppliers                          142      295       516      343   )                Total debt service (net)        432     517    646     718    986
Private banks                       73      240       737      193   }  1,981
Bonds                               -        -         19       -    )              Burden on export earnings (X)
Public loans n.e.i. /i              -         11       80       34)
Total public M6LT loans              813     1.073    1.972     1,304     3.198 /k       Public debt service            19.7    12.2   11.6   11.6    10.5
Total debt service             20.8     13.1  12.6    12.6   11.3
Actual debt outstanding on December 31. 1975           TDS + Direct Invest. Inc.      20.7    13.1   12.4   12.6    11.2
External Debt                             Disbursed only                %                Average terms on public debt
world Bank                                   403.5                    7.7
B                                           92.7                    1.8                Int. as X prior year DO6D       5.3     5.6    6.3    7.6    6.2
Other multilateral                           196.7                    3.8                 Door                          12.9    12.4   12.2    9.2    11.3
Govern-ents                                1,838.0                   35.2
Suppliers                                 1,595.4                    30.5
Private bonds                              1,004.2                   19.2              IBRD debt out. 6 disbursed      94.7    139.8 223.8   403.5  535.0
P    tnd  n                                   18.8                    0.4 4                 as 2 public debt 06D         3.5     4.4   5.6     7.7    8.5
Public debts o.e.i. Li                       77.8                     1.4              "    as   public debt service    1.7      2.5   3.3     4.9    4.3
Total public 11LT debt /d                  5,227.1                  100.0              IDA debt out 6 disbursed         47.1    58.5  78.3    92.7   96.1
Other M6LT debts                             470.8                                      "a.s Z public debt 06D           1.8     1.8   2.0     1.8    1.5
Total external   6LT debt (disb. only)     5,697.98                                       an 2 public debt service       0.1     0.1   0.1     0.1    0.1
Short-term debt (disb. only)              2,167.0 /i
La   Interest payments on short-, medium- and long-tern debt less interest earnings.
/b  Net dividends receipts and payments.
/c  Excludes interoffice accounts of foreign banks.
1d Includes all public guaranteed loans of maturities one year and above, except IMF.
1e  Private nonguaranteed loans, including IFC loans.
Af Includes IMF credits, banking system borrowing and short-term capital inflows.
A    Includes $580 million borrowed by the banking system.
/h  Includes short-term capital inflows of $760 million.
Li  Other private financial institutions.
/i Includes short-term trade credits (S902 sillion), refinance ($829 million), other short-tero debt ($436 million).
/k Preliminary official data (includes nonguaranteed private loans.
March 22, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of li pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of October 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                        Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                        (less cancellations)
Number  Year        Borrower            Purpose             Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed              353.1    86.8
769    1971   Republic of Korea     Highways I            53.4              0.0
795    1972   ADC                   Irrigation            33.0              1.9
863    1972   Republic of Korea     Railways IV           40.0              1.7
906 &  1973   Republic of Korea     Education II          23.0     20.0    26.9
394
917    1973   Republic of Korea     Ports I               80.0             40.5
942    1973   Republic of Korea     Seeds Production        7.0             4.4
953    1974   Republic of Korea     Tourism                25.0            14.3
956    1974   Republic of Korea     Highways II           47.0              1.2
994    1974   AFDC                  Agriculture            13.0            10.9
1070    1975   Republic of Korea     Secondary Cities       15.0             8.8
1095    1975   KDB                   Dev. Fin. Co.          60.0             1.7
1096    1975   Republic of Korea     Third Education III    22.5            20.8
1101    1975   Republic of Korea     Railway V             100.0            24.0
1145    1975   KDFC                  Dev. Fin. Co.         55.0              2.3
1175    1975   MIB                   Dev. Fin. Co.          30.0             7.1
1193    1976   Republic of Korea     Second Integrated      15.0            11.4
Dairy Development
1203    1976   Republic of Korea     Highway III           90.0             73.3
1216 &  1976   Republic of Korea     Rural Infra-          60.0             18.9
1218-T                                 structure
1319    1976   ADC                   Irrigation            29.0             29.0
1328    1976   Republic of Korea     Agricultural Credit    20.0            18.1
1338    1976   KDB                   Dev. Finance Co.       82.5            76.7
1364    1977   ADC                   Irrigation             95.0            94.5
1401    1977   Republic of Korea     Ports II              67.0             67.0
1461    1977   KDFC                  Dev. Finance Co.       70.0            70.0
1466 /a 1977   Republic of Korea     Heavy Machinery       80.0             80.0
1474    1977   Republic of Korea     Vocational Training   23.0             23.0
Total                                           1,588.5    106.8   728.4
of which has been repaid                         45.5      0.8
Total now outstanding                           1,543.0    106.0
Amount sold                   7.0
of which has been repaid    1.0                   6.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  1,537.0   106.0
(prior to exchange adjustment)
Total undisbursed                                 724.5     3.9    728.4
/a Effective as of December 1, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 1I pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of October 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                                    Amount ($ million)
Year   Obligor               Type of Business             Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                 Development Financing           -     0.7    0.7
1969   Honan Silk Co.       Textiles                       1.4    0.3     1.7
1970   Atlas Paper          Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development      -     0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                 Development Financing           -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development      -     0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                 Electronic Products           16.0    1.3    17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development     5.0    0.6     5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.        Synthetic Fibers               6.9    2.1     9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.   Tourism                        2.7    0.7     3.4
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development     -     0.4     0.4
1976   Chongju Paper
Mfg. Co.              Paper                         5.0     0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                          15.0    4.0    19.0
1976   KDFC                 Development Financing         17.8     -     17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products          10.0     0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                 Electronic Products                   0.2     0.2
1977   KDFC                 Development Financing                 0.3     0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market                 -     0.5     0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market               15.0    0.4    15.4
Total gross commitment                             99.3    14.3  113.6
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             39.7    0.9   40.6
Total commitments now held by IFC                  59.6    13.4   73.0
Total undisbursed                                  18.2     1.0   19.2
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 795     Yong San Gang Irrigation Project; $33.0 Million Loan
Credit No. 283   and $15.0 Million Credit of February 2, 1972; Effective
Date: September 15, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project, located in one of the most drought-prone areas of
Korea, provides four storage dams, canal systems and land development to
irrigate 33,700 ha. The project was delayed initially by modifications
in the design of the dams and later when rapid inflation outpaced the
allocation of local funds. The dams have now been completed and about
19,000 ha was irrigated in 1977. Good progress is being made on other
works; these works are expected to be completed in mid-1978, about
18 months behind schedule. Consequently, the Closing Date has been
extended from September 30, 1977 to December 31, 1978. The project cost
is estimated at about $151 million compared to $88.6 million at appraisal
but because of increases in rice and barley prices, the economic rate of
return is expected to be close to the appraisal estimate of 13%.
Loan No. 942     Seeds Project; $7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978
The project consists of: (a) the installation of five field crop
seed processing and storage facilities; (b) farm machinery for seed pro-
duction; (c) procurement of seasonal seed inventories through the operation
of a revolving fund; (d) seed testing laboratories and equipment; (e) crop
research (financed in part by USAID); (f) feasibility studies for irriga-
tion and area development; and (g) technical assistance. The necessary
legislative and administrative action for revising the Seed Law and estab-
lishing an "Office for Seed Production and Distribution" has been taken.
Project implementation, although one year behind the appraisal schedule, is
proceeding satisfactorily. Project cost (OSPD/NAPIO components) have increased
from the appraisal estimates of about $14.0 million to about $35.0 million.
Disbursement has been somewhat slower than expected at appraisal but is
expected to substantially improve in FY78.
Loan No. 994     Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7. 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in the
private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of fruits and
vegetables with modern hygienic processing facilities, using land that is
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11 pages
private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of fruits and
vegetables with modern hygienic processing facilities, using land that is
presently idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are
mainly asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and
peach. Implementation of the project as a whole has been slow. This is
mainly because loan demand for processing facilities, specifically included
in the project and which account for nearly 70% of total project cost, has
been negligible. Changes in market conditions which have been primarily
responsible for the lack of demand for such facilities are expected to
persist during the project period. Accordingly, it is essential that the
project scope be widened to allow AFDC to lend for other agricultural
facilities. If the revised project scope proposed by AFDC is agreed to by
the Bank, AFDC is confident that this would accelerate project lending so
that implementation of the project, already behind schedule, would not be
unduly delayed. Disbursements, as of October 31, 1977, were about 16% of
the total loan.
Loan No. 1193     Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of:   (a) the establishment of about 450 new
dairy farms; (b) the continuation of the development begun as part of the
First Integrated Dairy Beef Project on about 400 dairy farms; (c) the expan-
sion of existing processing plants, the diversification of their production,
the establishment of 2 milk collection centers and 50 small milk cooling
units and the construction of a milk products plant at Yeongnam; and (d) the
expansion of technical services for both farm development and milk processing.
Loan No. 1216     Rural Infrastructure Project; $60.0 Million Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T    $40.0 Million Third Window; Effective Date:   June 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation is proceeding very well. The Fuelwood
component has been completed, while the Roads and Bridges, Water Supply and
Rural Electrification components will be completed by the end of 1977. Minor
Irrigation has experienced some delays, mainly the result of budgetary
shortages and a cost overrun of 18%, but should be substantially completed by
the end of 1978. Upland Reclamation is proceeding in accordance with the
revised time schedule and will be completed in 1978. Project monitoring and
reporting continue to be satisfactory and a good start has been made on the
Hydrologic Services Study and a major project evaluation study. The estimated
cost of the project is likely to be 16% above the appraisal estimate, mostly
as a result of cost overruns for Minor Irrigation and Rural Electrification
and an increase in the size of the Water Supply component. Disbursements are
practically in line with appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11 pages
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The aim of the project is to increase agricultural production and
farm incomes on about 12,665 ha, and to benefit directly some 10,400 farm
families. The project consists of: (a) the construction of dams and canals
to irrigate 8,315 ha; (b) the conversion of 2,045 ha of cultivated upland to
irrigated paddy fields; (c) land consolidation on 4,600 ha of irrigated and
nonirrigated land; (d) the development of 495 ha for irrigation of upland
crops and 550 ha for orchards; (e) upland reclamation and bench-terracing of
1,200 ha of presently uncultivated land; (f) the improvement of about 80 km
of river channels; and (g) the construction of about 150 km of village access
roads. For implementation, the project has been divided into five geographic
units. A contract for construction of all works in the first unit was
awarded in August 1977.
Loan No. 1328     Second Agricultural Credit Project; $20.0 Million Loan
of September 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is a continuation and expansion of the agricultural
program financed under the First Agricultural Credit Project. It provides
funds to the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) for
medium and long-term loans, through selected Gun cooperatives of NACF, to
farmers for investments in apple orchard development, silkworm rearing
houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards, greenhouses for vegetable produc-
tion, and on-farm storage. The project became effective on March 10, 1977
and lending to subborrowers commenced in the following month. Project
implementation has generally been progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1364     Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of January 25, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The principal features of the project are: (a) construction of an
estuary dam across the mouth of the Yong San Gang, consisting of a 4,500 m
long embankment, a 240 m wide concrete sluice and a navigation lock; (b) con-
struction of a 4,000 m long sea dike; (c) construction of 16 pumping stations
to serve a total area of 20,700 ha, including the land to be reclaimed and
developed; (d) construction of about 315 km of main and secondary canals to
serve an area of about 15,200 ha; (e) reclamation of about 5,500 ha of tidal
land through land leveling and construction of canals, drains and farm roads;
(f) land development comprising land consolidation on 3,200 ha of existing
paddy, conversion of 3,250 ha of upland to irrigated paddy, development of
1,050 ha of upland for irrigation, and tertiary canals and drains on 4,400 ha
of existing paddy land. The main contract for the sluice and estuary dam is
to be awarded shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11 pages
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1095    Korea Development Bank Project; $60.0 Million Loan
of March 31, 1975; Effective Date: June 17, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project provides funds to KDB to make subloans to finance direct
imports for subprojects principally in the manufacturing and transportation
sectors. Almost the full amount has already been committed to finance 31 sub-
projects, ahead of the time estimated at appraisal. Disbursements now amount
to over 97% of the loan amount, also ahead of the original estimate. KDB's
performance in using the loan has been highly satisfactory.
Loan No. 1145    Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$55.0 Million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The loan covers about half the KDFC's foreign exchange require-
ments through the end of 1977. The proceeds are used to finance direct
imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component
of domestically produced capital goods and of civil works. About 94% of the
loan proceeds have already been disbursed. KDFC's performance in using
the loan has been highly satisfactory.
Loan No. 1175    Medium Industry Bank (MIB); $30.0 Million Loan of
November 26. 1975; Effective Date: January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides funds to MIB to make subloans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises over two years. The project
is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are at present over 75%
of the total loan.
Loan No. 1338     Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million
Loan, of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial
Leasing Company, of November 16, 1976; Effective Date:
March 23, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make
subloans and investments to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects
during the period 1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, would be
relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary KILC, which would use these
funds to acquire machinery, equipment, facilities and other property to be
leased to investment enterprises during the same period.
Loan No. 1461     Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1977; Effective Date:
September 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan will help cover the foreign exchange requirements of
industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11 pages
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
June 23, 1977; Effective Date:/1; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is designed to manufacture most of the equipment
required for power generation, steel mills, and chemical and petrochemical
plants. It consists of (a) foundry and forge shops, (b) fabrication shops,
(c) machine shops, (d) assembly and test shops, (e) support facilities,
(f) other auxiliary facilities, and (g) technical assistance. Project imple-
mentation is on schedule: preparation of detailed equipment specifications has
been completed, prequalification of suppliers and distributing of tender
documents is well underway, and order placement for most items will begin
shortly. Initial site preparation work is presently 70% complete.
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project provides equipment for, and extensions to, 85 educa-
tional institutions at secondary, post secondary and university levels. It
also includes preinvestment studies on health and management education.
The project execution is now about two years behind schedule. The principal
causes of delay have been slow equipment procurement owing to staff shortages
in the Office of Supply (OSROK) and an internal Korean review of procurement
procedures. Implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily. Covenant
requirements under the Development Credit Agreements are largely met. The
project is now expected to be completed by mid-1979, which requires an
extension of the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The project includes assistance for extensions and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes under the Office
of Labor Affairs (OLA). Project implementation is about nine months behind
schedule mainly due to earlier difficulties with counterpart funds. These
shortages resulted in part from the delay of the Second Education Project and
ensuing bunching of financial requirements. However, substantial progress
has been made and disbursements are on schedule. All sites have been acquired
and site layouts and sketch plans have been approved. Five institutions are
under construction and one institution has been completed. About 60% of the
equipment has been tendered. No cost overrun is anticipated at this time.
Both MOE and OLA project units are functioning satisfactorily.
/1 Effective as of December 1, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11 pages
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan provides funds to help finance (a) construction of and
equipment for 8 Vocational Training Institutes (VTIs), with 450 places each
with boarding facilities; (b) equipment for the Central Vocational Training
Institute (CVTI); and (c) expert services for the Vocational Training Bureau
(VTB), and specialist services to the CVTI and VTIs.
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953     Kyonglu Tourism Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned development
of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose dam;
an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of the
water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city of
Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and telecom-
munication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure, including storm water drainage,
environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; a school
for training hotel personnel; and a feasibility study for the development
of tourism on Cheju Island. Construction of the dam, work on the irrigation
system and civil works for the Kyongju City water supply and sewerage component
have been completed. Work on the electricity component is progressing well
and is expected to be completed shortly. Work on the water supply and
sewerage system in the Bomun area which was delayed because of groundwater
investigations has just started as has work on the golf course. Road work
in the project area was delayed due to the shortage of local funds, but is
now progressing satisfactorily. Construction of the first hotel at Bomun
Lake has started and negotiations for a second are well advanced. About 43%
of the loan has been disbursed and project completion is now scheduled for
December 1978.
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070     Secondary Cities Regional Project; $15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Two housing sites and a city market have essentially
been completed. Progress in the remaining five subprojects is nearly on
schedule. Tenders are being invited for the sixth subproject. Allocation of
housing plots has been made at the Gwangju site; there was a strong demand
for such plots. Efforts to cross-subsidize smaller plots for lower-income
families through the sale of larger plots have been most successful. Alloca-
tion of plots at the two other housing units is underway. The project is



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11 pages
nearly a year behind appraisal schedule, mainly due to delays in fulfilling
conditions of effectiveness and establishing the Gwangju Regional Development
Unit. Total project costs are now estimated at $22.6 million compared to the
appraisal estimate of $25.0 million. A surplus of nearly $2.0 million is
anticipated in the loan amount, mainly due to devaluation of the won in
December 1974. As of October 31, 1977, disbursement was 41% of the loan
amount.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 769      First Highway Project; $54.5 Million Loan of June 29,
1971; Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The construction of approximately 370 km of national highways
between Jeonju and Busan was satisfactorily completed in December 1973,
at a final cost of about 5% above the appraisal estimate. Feasibility
studies and detailed engineering have been completed for 1,400 km and 900 km
of national highways, respectively. A study of road maintenance and the
establishment of a pilot maintenance organization formed the basis of the
creation of a countrywide Highway Maintenance Organization which is being
carried out under the Second Highway Project. $1,063,000 was cancelled
at the request of the Borrower.
Loan No. 863      Fourth Railway Pro,ject; $40.0 Million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Effective Date: February 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The main elements of the project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to
the northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of yard
facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improvement of
facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and rolling stock.
No major problems have been encountered; most of the loan proceeds have been
committed, and over 95% already disbursed. The Closing Date has been extended
by a year to December 31, 1977 to allow time for the completion of procurement.
Loan No. 917     Ports Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Nine civil works contracts and three equipment supply contracts
are already let and work is proceeding satisfactorily. A contract has also
been let for the grain handling facility and civil works for the grain silo
and head house foundations have started. All project contracts have now been
awarded. Overall the project is about 70% completed. Total cost is currently
estimated to be $153 million with a foreign exchange component of $103 mil-
lion. The loan provides $80 million foreign exchange and the overrun
is being financed by the Saudi Fund for Development (SFD). The Korea



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11 pages
Maritime and Port Authority (KMPA) is being adequately staffed, but there has
been a delay in adopting operational and financial procedures recommended by
consultants appointed to advise KMPA on these matters. Proposals for this
work, from three consulting firms, are now being evaluated. The financial
situation at the project ports is satisfactory and will be further improved
if the proposed tariff increases in January 1978 are effected.
Loan No. 956     Second Highway Project; $47.0 Million Loan of January 25
1974; Effective Date: April 4, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The works, consisting of construction, chiefly on new alignments,
of about 130 km of highways and paving, chiefly on existing alignments, of a
further 634 km of national highways were completed on schedule and the high-
ways opened to traffic in October 1975. The cost, in US dollar equivalent,
exceeded the estimate by about 5%. Feasibility studies for future projects
of about 1,000 km of roads were started in August 1975, followed by detailed
engineering. Delay occurred in setting up a new nationwide highway maintenance
organization but the organization has now been established in accordance with
decrees published in June 1975. All the maintenance offices have been
constructed and staffed and equipment procured under the loan. The Government
has been requested to increase the budgetary allocation to enable an adequate
program of periodic maintenance to be carried out. By the end of October 1977,
disbursements were above 97%, but the Closing Date has been extended by a year
to use the balance in the loan account for procurement of spare parts needed
for the maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by providing for: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and other
equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the strengthen-
ing of its financial position. The main components of the project are: an
increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signalling;
acquisition of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts and
repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening; comple-
tion of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other miscellaneous
items. Contracts, financed by the loan, have been signed for procurement of
passenger and freight cars, wheel sets, spares for locomotives, rail, bridge
girders and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about $75 million
equivalent. About 76% of the loan proceeds have already been disbursed.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
February 3. 1976; Effective Date:   May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11 pages
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) paving and
improvement chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways totaling
about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and (c) feasi-
bility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and provincial
roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. Contracts for construction and
paving have been awarded and work is progressing substantially on schedule.
The Government is evaluating proposals submitted by consulting firms for feasi-
bility studies. Disbursements to the end of October 1977 were about 19% of
the total loan. The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35 mil-
lion to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of:   (a) a 700 m extension of container berths
being financed under the First Port Project and a 335,000 sq m expansion of
the container stacking area provided under that project; dredging to provide
an alongside depth of 12.5 m; construction of an access road, inside the port
limits, a guard house, and an 8,000 sq m container freight station, and the
necessary ancillary facilities; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central
wharf, and lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile
container handling equipment, and two tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant
Services - to carry out detailed design and supervision of construction and
procurement; and (d) Technical Assistance and Training - to assist in cargo
handling (including the handling of containers), maintenance, port planning,
and accounting. Steps are being taken to appoint consultants for final
engineering.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
KOREA
OGSEO AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT STAGE I
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: The project was prepared
during 1974-1976 with financing under Loan 942-KO - National Seeds
Project.
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Agricultural Development Cor-
poration (ADC) with the assistance of consultants, Tahal (Israel).
(c) Date of first Bank Mission to consider the project: November 1972.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: May 24, 1977.
(e) Negotiations completed: November 15, 1977.
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: March 20, 1978.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions: The following special conditions are
incorporated in the Loan and Guarantee Agreements:
(a) The Government would guarantee releases from the Daecheong Dam
sufficient to provide an adequate maintenance flow in the Geum
River at the constriction just below Ganggyeong, plus 30 cu m/sec
required in June for irrigating 12,000 ha in the Kumgang Project
and 5,000 ha in the lower parts of the Nonsan FLIA area (para. 41).
(b) ADC would submit operating rules for the Tabjeong Reservoir to the
Bank for review and comment by December 1982 (para. 42).
(c) ADC would complete the study of a low lift pumping alternative
for supplying irrigation water to the Duribong and Bonghwa
pumping stations by June 30, 1978, and would discuss its findings
with the Bank, before preparing final designs for those pumping
stations (para. 43).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(d) ADC would employ consultants to assist in project implementation
and preparation of feasibility studies on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (para. 47).
(e) By December 1979, ADC would submit to the Bank for review and
comment a detailed plan for the operation and maintenance of the
project (para. 54).
(f) The Government would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
for the Daecheong and Tabjeong dams to be periodically inspected,
and would submit such arrangements to the Bank for review by
June 1979 (para. 55).
(g) Project farmers would contribute to the capital and annual cost
of the project facilities at levels described in para. 56.






'BRD 13025
900  27  7'       -      127!.             A SGGJST :977
KOREA
Ogseo Area Development Project Stage I                /  <                          7          7,
NONSAN DIVISION                              z9       9)2        lS
Ex,si,omom=onconpds                   g' /A                         "a\8 k / I -
X E          xtnominso1n GONG4JU     C U  <3 / ,/z .-                9. ksv....J.t
New puomping olofions                          /    -.W J,  \\    t.( . 
RoIw oer                                          / ^y> ; e 
Flood Eprewyzoll) (tro  embooLmeo// ft  ( 
E.  oos-
H--on  F.p--soy loll)
L   Lo-d consol-doro
= Dro,oo3go ,700700700mni                                     'I ?   A t  ,.   ' t\
K-g-g P'.,-t (L-600-1<0)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000'
i   - N! w 9 b-g - on  |---
Kumgong9 Prolecd LoonoOO-KOt  'X  X   S  AP/ ,s~_v         )~<
.- - lrr.golo.n subd,ois,oo bouoondors  |~ \   '<7z}  // ' (   ///.3  
---Co ty7 (G) bo6-dor.e-
._  ._ P,o,noc,ol (Do) bo-ndor_,-
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~61
0I--L  2'     e      i .--,'\9lf                           ,
/    J E O  N  0  RA   B  UUYE   G U ?,i~s.IlIi     '-. 1 /r0'wn*c.Or'.ta..7, x / 3 .- 
/* >                                      K      ,<rJC  /        )  cq, ,/ <>n,,x  FIE
/ /EL  A .......... 7  0   - t  -
IGS AN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~" U No,,,oo,o.w,,



