CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1503-KO
Loan Agreement
(Ogseo ALea Development Stage I Project)
between
INTEFiATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated January 4, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1503-KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 4, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AN) 0e,Vr1.,OPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a public corporation established and operating pursuant
to the Rural Modernization Promotion Law of 1969, as amended, of
the Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Guarantor).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this kgreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "OSROK" means
the Office of Supply of the Republic of Korea, the Guarantor's
central procurement agency, or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sche-
dule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.9%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Sectio'. 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annual] on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in (a) the
design, planning and supervision of the civil works included in
the Project and (b) the carrying out of the studies referred to in
Part I of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall (a) not later than June 30,
1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, furnish


﻿-3-
to the Bank for review the study of a low-lift pumping alternative
for supplying irrigation water to the Duribong and Bonghwa pumping
stations included in Part A of the Project and (b) exchange views
with the Bank on the findings of such study before preparing final
designs for the said Duribong and Bonghwa pumping stations.
Section 3.04. The Borrower s'all, not later than December 31,
1982 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, furnish
to the Bank for review its proposed operating rules for the
Tabjeong reservoir, such proposals to be based on the analysis of
measurements of the runoff in the Nonsan basin and relevant
rainfall data collected at appropriate locations in the catchment
area.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall (a) not later than Feb-
ruary 1, 1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank,
establish and thereafter maintain a Project implementation
unit (referred to as the Ogseo Project Office) to be responsible
for the implementation and supervision of' the civil works included
in the Project and to be headed by a Project manager with qualifi-
cations and experience acceptable to the Bank and (b) not later
than July 1, 1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Bank, cause the Ogseo Project Office to be operating at Nonsan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1979 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, furnish
to the Bank for review a detailed plan for the operation and
maintenance of the facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facil-
ities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its af-
fairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion


﻿- 5 -
and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all works, facilities and
equipment related to the Project to be adequately maintained and
shall from time to time make or cause to be made all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof in accordance with sound agricultural
and engineering practices.
(c) Except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which shall be
required for the efficient operation of its business and under-
taking including the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information


﻿- 6 -
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such pro-
perty; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely that a change has been made in
the Guarantor's Rural Modernization Promotion Law of 1969, as
amended, which materially and adversely affects the carrying out
or operation of the Project by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the event specified in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Secti,n 7.01. The date March 29, 1978 is hereby specified for
the purpoNe of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the prrposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Agricultural Development Corporation
P.. Box 12
ryang, Gyeonggi Do
V..  i'orea
Cable address:
AGRIDEVELOCORP
Anyang
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-8-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By Is/ Yoonsae Yang
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                23,000,000         50%
(2) Equipment and materials     6,800,000
(a) directly imported                        100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally manufac-                         100% of local
tured and pro-                          expenditures
cured ex-factory                        ex-factory
(c) other local pro-                         65% of local ex-
curement                                penditures
(3) Consultants' services         400,000         100%
and training
(4) Unallocated                 5,800,000
TOTAL      36,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to increase agricultural
production in the Ogseo Area, along the west coast of the Bor-
rower's territory, about 160 km south of Seoul, through irrigation
and land development. The Project consists of the following
parts:
Part A:
Irrigation of about 7,090 ha of land and improvement of
water supply to an additional 1,490 ha of land through the instal-
lation of about nine pumping stations and the construction of
about 120 km of main canals and about 70 km of secondary canals.
Part B:
Land consolidation, including construction of ditches, drains
and farm roads together with land levelling and boundary realign-
ment, on about 3,070 ha of land to be irrigated under Part A of
the Project.
Part C:
Conversion of about 1,510 ha of upland and about 270 ha of
forest into paddy fields in areas to be irrigated under Part A of
the Project.
Part D:
Construction of tertiary canals and drains on about 2,240 ha
of existing rainfed paddy land to be irrigated under Part A of the
Project.
Part E:
Improvement of the irrigation systems of about 3,710 ha of
presently irrigated land.
Part F:
Drainage improvement on about 2,500 ha of the presently
irrigated land referred to in Part E of the Project (including


﻿- 12 -
940 ha of presently consolidated land) to accelerate the disposal
of surface water at the end of the rice-growing season and the
establishment of the following barley crop.
Part G:
Land consolidation on about 2,770 ha of the presently ir-
rigated land referred to in Part E of the Project.
Part H:
Construction of office buildings and provision of equipment
required for the engineering and the supervision of civil works
included in the Project.
Part I:
Carrying out of feasibility studies for future irrigation and
area development projects in the Dongjin river basin and in the
Naeseong watershed, in the upper reaches of the Nakdong river.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1982
through   June 15, 1994                       1,385,000
On December 15, 1994                               1,375,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.40%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.10%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                       6.95%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.90%


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.4 hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be let in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Civil works shall be grouped geographically on the basis of
about four contracts.
3.   The requirements for cement and steel shall be grouped and
procured in bul.k by OSROK on behalf of the Borrower.
4.   Small equipment items may be procured through local shopping,
provided that the aggregate of all goods so procured shall not
exceed $100,000 equivalent.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods subject to international competitive bidding:
(i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f.
(port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price
for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on
domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost
to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures inci-
dental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Republic of Korea may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid


﻿- 16 -
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Korea if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Republic of Korea
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of Korea.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts for civil works or goods
subject to international competitive bidding:


﻿- 17 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compar-
ison of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


