CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1503-KO
Guarantee Agreement
(Ogseo Area Development Stage I Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 4, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1503-KO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 4, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Agricultural Development Corporation (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a
loan in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million
dollars ($36,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor
agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "First Project" means the Project described in Schedule
3 to the Loan Agreement (Pyongtaek-Kumgang Irrigation Project)
dated May 23, 1969 between the Bank and the Union of Land Improve-
ment Associations; and


﻿- 2 -
(b) "FLIA" means Farmland Improvement Association, an
association of farmers and landowners established and operating
pursuant to the Guarantor's Rural Modernization Promotion Law of
1969 as amended, or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying
out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating


﻿-3-
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performirg the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall guarantee releases from
the Daecheong dam sufficient to provide in the Geum river, at
the first constriction of the riverbed located downstream of
Ganggyeong, a maintenance flow which shall be (a) at all times
sufficient to exclude salt water intrusion upstream of such
constriction and (b) in June of each year, in addition to the
releases required under (a) above, not less than 30 cu m/sec in
order to irrigate (i) about 12,200 ha included in the First
Project and (ii) about 5,000 ha included in this Project, in the
lower parts of the Nonsan FLIA area.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall: (a) under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank cause the Daecheong and Tabjeong dams
to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering
practice in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies
in the condition of such dams, or in the quality and adequacy of
maintenance or methods of operations of the said dams, which
may endanger their safety; and (b) to this end, furnish to the
Bank for review, not later than June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed with the Bank, a detailed report on such
arrangements.


﻿Sectioin 3.04. Upon completion of the irrigation works
included in the Project, the Guarantor shall set and collect from
the beneficiaries of such irrigation works charges at levels
sufficient (a) to ensure the recovery of the annual operating and
maintenance costs of such irrigation works and (b) to cover the
repayment of not less than 30% of the capital costs of such
irrigation works over a period not exceeding 35 years, including
a grace period of 5 years, with interest at the rate of not less
than 3.5% per annum or under such other terms as may be agreed
between the Guarantor and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of the Economic Planning Board of
the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By // Yoonsae Yang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


