Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13793-LV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LATVIA
JELGAVA DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
APRIL 25, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe and central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1994)
Currency Unit  =       Latvian Lat (Ls)
1 US$                 0.55 Ls
I Ls                  US$ 1.82
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Gcal       Gigacalorie (109 cal)                  m              meters
mtoe       million tons of oil equivalent         MW             Megawatt (106W)
km         kilometer                              kWH            kilowatt hour
TWh        Terawatt hour (102Wh)                 t              metric ton
CONVERSION FACTORS & CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS
NO°                =       Nitrogen Oxides               so      =       Sulfur Dioxide
1 Gcal   4.187 GJ = 1,163kWh
ABBREVIATIONS
BITS               =       Swedish Board for Investment and Technical Support
CHP                =       Combined-Heat-and-Power
DH                 =       District Heating
EBRD               =       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU-PHARE           =       European Union Assistance Program for Eastern Europe
FSU                =       Former Soviet Union
GDP                =       Gross Domestic Product
GPN                =       General Procurement Notice
GOL                =       Government of Latvia
HFO                =       Heavy Fuel Oil
HOB                =       Heat Only Boiler
ICB                        I lnternational Competitive Bidding
JDHC               =       Jelgava District Heating Company
LIB                =       Limited International Bidding
LPG                =       Liquified Natural Gas
NCB                =       National Competitive Bidding
SA                 =       Special Account
SOE                =       Statements of Expenditure
USAID              =       United States Agency for International Development
USEPA              =       United States Environmental Protection Agency
LATVIAN & JDHC FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



LATVIA
JELGAVA DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Loan and Project Sumnmary   .......................................                                                               i
I.  The Economy and Energy Sector ....................                                                                                      1
A.         Background and Recent Economic Development  .....................    1
B.         Overview  of the Energy Sector ................................    2
C.         District Heating Sub-sector   ..................................                                                      8
D.         Bank Energy Assistance Strategy    ..............................   11
II.       The City of Jelgava and JDHC   .....................................    13
IE.       The Project              ..............................................    15
A.         Project Objectives  ........................................    15
B.         Project Rationale   ........................................    15
C.         Project Description   .......................................   16
D.         Cost Estimate and Financing Plan  ..............................   18
E.   Procurement .                      ........................................... 20
F.         Disbursement  .                   ......................................... 23
G.         Project Preparation and Implementation   ..........................   24
H.         Reporting and Monitoring  ...................................   24
I.         Project Supervision   .......................................   24
J.         Environmental Aspects  .....................................   25
IV.       Financial Aspects   ................... ..                                   ........................    27
A.         Past and Present Financial Performance   ..........................   27
B.         Heat Tariffs, Collection Performance, and Social Safety Net   .............  27
C.         Billing and Collection    .....................................   29
D.         Accounts and Audits   ......................................   30
E.         Future Financial Performance    ...............................                                                     31
V.        Project Benefits and Risks  ........................................   33
A.         Project Justification  .......................................   33
B.         Project Benefits   .........................................    34
C.   Project Risks .                    ........................................... 37
VI.       Agreements Reached and Recommendation    .............................   38
I



ANNEXES
1 - Low - Income Assistance Program
2 - Latvia Energy Supply and Consumption
3 - Organization of Jelgava DH Company
4 - Implementation Schedule
5 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6 - Detailed Economic Analysis
7 - Supervision Plan
MAP
IBRD 26475 - Map of Latvia
IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
I - Detailed Description of Jelgava DH Rehabilitation
2 - Detailed Cost Estimates
3 - Procurement Implementation Plan
4 - Detailed Implementation Schedule
5 - JDHC Billing & Collection Procedures
6 - Heat Demand Forecast
7 - Detailed Financial Analysis of JDHC
8 - Environmental Aspects
9 - Suggested Requirements for Progress Reporting



LATVIA
JELGAVA DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Latvia
Beneficiaries:      City of Jelgava and Jelgava District Heating Company
Poverty Category:    Not Applicable.
Amount:             US$ 14.0 million equivalent.
Terms:              Seventeen years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Commitment Fee:    0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver,
Onlending Terms:    To the City of Jelgava in US$ at the Bank's standard variable interest rate,
plus a 10 percent mark-up for cross-currency risk and administration.
Financing Plan:     See Para 3.10
Economic rate of
Return:             24%
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 13793-LV
Map:                IBRD 26475
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~1






The Economy & Energy Sector                                                           1
LATVIA
JELGAVA DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
1. THE ECONOMY & ENERGY SECTOR
A. Background and Recent Economic Development
1.1          Latvia regained its independence in September, 1991 following the collapse of the Former
Soviet Union (FSU). A country of 2.6 million people, Latvia covers an area of 25,000 square miles
(64,600 square kilometers) and is situated on the eastern coast of the Baltic Sea. It is bounded by Estonia
to the north, Lithuania to the south, Russia and Belarus to the east and has a 500-kilometer coastline on
the Baltic Sea.
1.2          Since independence, Latvia has taken major steps to reform its economy and has
succeeded in transforming its economy from a centrally planned to a market system. An IMF-supported
stabilization program launched by the Government of Latvia (GOL) in July, 1992 effectively uncoupled
the Latvian currency from the ruble zone. A permanent Latvian currency, the Lat (Ls), was introduced
in 1993. Successful implementation of the stabilization program enabled the country to pursue an
independent monetary policy and reap-the benefits of a prudent fiscal policy. As a result, inflation has
declined sharply from over 900 percent in 1992 to 36 percent in 1994. Structural adjustment in key areas
has progressed significantly: (i) most prices have been liberalized; (ii) an open trade regime has been
introduced and privatization of small businesses, agricultural land and banking institutions is well
advanced; and (iii) the Government is reforming the social safety net through better means-testing to focus
on social benefits specifically aimed at lower income groups. Banking and industrial sector reforms,
however, have been slower than initially anticipated. Latvia still faces a difficult reform agenda to
complete the transition to a sustainable and growing market-based economy. Latvia's aspiration to re-
integrate itself into Europe hinges on further development toward long-term political and exchange rate
stability, and deepening of structural reforms.
1.3          The World Bank's overall objective is to support Latvia's efforts to maintain stabilization
and accelerate growth which will depend to a large extent on the Government's commnitment and ability
to sustain and accelerate implementation of the reform program. This objective will be pursued through
a combination of lending operations, economic and sector work and aid coordination. The Bank is
supporting Latvia's energy infrastructure to overcome the backlog of deferred maintenance and to reorient
the energy sector to address energy conservation and enviromnent-related issues. Analytical work as well
as lending operations will support the Government in formulating and implementing a sound public
investment program and in coordinating assistance from other sources. The energy sector is a high
priority area in view of the dramatic price changes which have occurred over the past three years, the
country's dependence on energy imports and the resulting need for energy conservation and efficiency
improvements of energy facilities. The proposed project would support the objectives of promoting
energy conservation and efficiency improvements in the district heating (DH) subsector.



2                                                             The Economy & Energy Sector
1.4          As part of the energy sector lending program and to further extend sector and policy
reform into different energy subsectors, the Government has requested World Bank financing for energy
conservation and efficiency measures in the district heating (DH) sector and for support in the
implementation of comprehensive energy sector restructuring, commercialization and privatization,
introduction of suitable regulatory framework, improvement in energy pricing policies and institutional
strengthening. The Bank's objective is to assist the Government through a combination of lending
operations, analytical sector work and coordination of technical assistance for institutional strengthening.
As part of the assistance strategy, the Bank assisted the Latvian Government with priority setting for
energy sector capital investment through the Public Expenditure Review (Report No. 12793-LV)1
exercise which included a technical assistance component for public investment planning funded through
donor grants. In addition to the current project, the Bank is actively engaged in providing technical
assistance for sector regulation and policy formulation in Latvia. An energy sector review aimed at
assisting the Latvian Government in formulating a comprehensive energy strategy consistent with new
political and economic realities is planned and is expected to be completed in 1997.
B. Overview of the Energy Sector
1.5          The energy sector plays a vital role in the Latvian economy through its impact on the
balance of payments and because energy is a major input to other sectors of the economy, especially
industry and agriculture. In 1992, Latvia spent the equivalent of 21 percent of its GDP for energy imports
and the equivalent figure for 1993 is 19 percent of GDP. Latvia's location on the Baltic Sea enables it
to play a significant role in East-West energy trade and to earn significant revenue from transit activities
of countries further inland that utilize Latvian ports for exports, especially energy products. Latvia's
relatively ice-free seaports of Ventspils, Liepaja and Riga are used as export terminals by countries
fiuther inland, principally Russia. In addition, Latvia has many geological formations that could be
dpveloped into gas storage facilities.
1.6          Energy Resources. Latvia's energy sector is heavily dependent on imports since the
country produces about 10 - 20 percent of its primary energy requirements. About half of all imported
fuel is used in the production of electricity and heat. As part of the Soviet Union, Latvia had access to
petroleum products and natural gas from Russia at below world market prices. 'Tis easy access to energy
resources led to systematic under-pricing of energy that, in turn, led to usage per unit of output
substantially higher than in market economies. Fortunately, however, it did not saddle Latvia with a lot
of energy-intensive heavy industry, the structure of Latvian industry being oriented to lighter and
technologically advanced industries that made use of an educated labor force. Out of date and often
inappropriate technologies resulted in large amounts of energy wastage. Price distortions and the absence
of private property rights created a bias against investments in energy efficiency, pollution abatement,
and adequate maintenance of plants.
1.7          Latvia imports natural gas from Russia, electricity from Estonia and petroleum products
from Russia and other FSU countries. Latvia's domestic primary energy resources, which comprise
hydropower, wood products, and peat, accounted for about 9 percent of its total energy needs in 1990
and about 19 percent in 1993. The Cascades Hydropower System on the Daugava River supplies about
1/Public Expenditure Review, July 12, 1994.



The Economy & Energy Sector                                                              3
35 percent of Latvia's annual electricity consumption. Latvia purchases most of its electricity from
neighboring Estonia, about 65 percent in 1992 and 41 percent in 1993. Since about 40 percent of
Latvia's landmass is covered by forest, it has a large reserve of wood and wood products. About 2.5
million m3 of wood is harvested annually, and initial estimates indicate that about 4.5 million m3 could
be harvested without adverse environmental effect. In addition, Latvia has an estimated peat reserve of
2,000 million tons, but the high extraction and transportation costs, low calorific content, combined with
a high potential for enviromnental degradation make peat less commercially competitive than other fuels.
1.8           Energy Consumption. The Latvian economy is very energy-intensive. A cross-country
analysis of energy consumption in relation to GDP using 1990 figures indicates that Latvia's rate of
energy use was 35 percent higher than twenty-one countries with similar climatic conditions. Given this
inefficiency in energy utilization, the rapid increases in fuel prices following the collapse of the FSU led
to very severe economic shocks and a substantial decline in energy demand. Demand for most energy
products in Latvia in 1993 was 50 - 65 percent of the 1990 level.
1.9           Energy consumption was estimated at 5.2 million tons of oil equivalent (Mtoe) in 1993,
a 42 percent drop from the 1990 consumption of 9.0 Mtoe. The contraction of the Latvian economy is
reflected in energy consumption patterns. For example, the industrial sector's share of total energy
consumption was 26 percent in 1990 - a level comparable to Western Europe. By 1993, industry's share
of energy consumption declined to 20 percent.
1.10          Energy Facilities. Latvia's energy infrastructure has sufficient capacity to meet the
current level of demand, but suffers from low levels of maintenance and efficiency. Fiscal retrenchment
in Latvia, as elsewhere in Eastern Europe, has meant a drastic decrease in public investment. The energy
sector's infrastructure networks have been among the hardest hit, either because the technology required
high maintenance, as in the DH sector, or because the facilities are worn down, as in gas storage. Even
routine maintenance has fallen to inadequate levels due to financial constraints and the difficulty of
procuring Soviet-made spare parts.2
1.11          Energy Sector Policy and Strategy.  The Latvian Government has taken steps to
restructure the sector to respond better to the needs of a market economy by decentralizing district heating
services, privatizing the oil sub-sector, commercializing the electricity and natural gas monopolies and
introducing targeted subsidies directed to consumers and not energy enterprises. However, the sector still
suffers from a number of institutional difficulties and a deep financial weakness. The inability of energy
consumers to make timely payment for services has led to accumulated arrears to sector enterprises and
created a rather complicated inter-enterprise debt situation. As at the beginning of April 1994, the
combined accounts receivable for the electricity and natural gas monopolies, Latvenergo and Latvijas
Gaze, was estimated at Lats 128 million3 (US$233 million equivalent) down from a peak of about Lats
2/ Further information on the energy sector can be found in the World Bank publication entitled
'Latvia - The Transition to a Market Economy", (Report Number ISBN 0-8213-2324-5), published
in March 1993.
3/These estimates are provided to emphasize the order of magnitude of the debts of the energy
sector. Their accuracy is difficult to ascertain due to double counting of both accounts payable and
accounts receivable as debt, failure to offset corresponding payables and receivables of mutually



4                                                              The Economy & Energy Sector
145 million (US$264 million equivalent) in the third quarter of 1993. Also, sectoral restructuring and
the ensuing shift in responsibilities between the various institutions in the sector has led to a lack of
clarity in institutional boundaries. The delay in the emergence of a strong institution to take sector
leadership has often given a perception of an institutional leadership vacuum in the sector.
1.12         The energy sector has been identified as one of the priority sectors to be rehabilitated
during the transition period. The Government is in the process of formulating an energy policy which
would be based on the strategic objective of providing long-term reliable energy services at the lowest
economic cost with due regard to environrmental concerns and security of supply. Based on the
preliminary proposals presented to the donor meeting in Paris in May 1994, the specific objectives of the
policy are: (i) optimal economic utilization of energy resources; (ii) increased use of renewable indigenous
energy resources; (iii) efficient performance and maintenance of existing facilities; and (iv) diversification
of fuel choice and supply.
1.13         In line with these objectives, the Government has undertaken a number of projects and
studies, supported by several multilateral and bilateral agencies (EU-PHARE, EBRD, BITS, USAID, etc)
to: (i) improve efficiency and reliability of existing energy systems through improved operations and
rehabilitation of existing facilities; (ii) improve the diversity of fuel choice through the development of
indigenous energy resources - mainly hydropower, wood products, and peat - in order to reduce the high
cost of fuel import, and (iii) introduce public awareness campaigns to inform and educate citizens on the
sectoral issues.
1.14         Given Latvia's dependency on energy imports, security of supply is a major concern of
the Government. The power sector is especially concerned about the need to increase domestic electricity
production to ensure that electric power is not a constraint to future economic growth. There is little
economic justification for building new power plants, given current low electricity import prices and the
considerable excess power generating capacity in neighboring Estonia and Lithuania. Dependence on
Russia for natural gas imports is also a major concern, thus the Government's emphasis on fuel
diversification. However, the Government has adopted the prudent policy of investing in energy
efficiency and conservation rather than new power generation facilities in the short term when electricity
imports are relatively cheap.
1.15         Within the sector strategy, a high priority is accorded to investments in the district heating
sub-sector which is a major energy user, but provides a basic human need given Latvia's climatic
conditions. It is estimated that 30 percent of Latvia's energy resources are used for the provision of space
heating and hot water for households and public buildings. The size of the district heating sub-sector in
overall fuel use and the proportion of the population subject to district heating systems establish it as a
priority for rehabilitation.
1.16         Energy Sector Institutions & Management. The institutional structure of the energy sector
has undergone major transformation since Latvian Independence and is still evolving. Immediately
following independence, the overall responsibility for the sector (i.e. policy formulation and
implementation, regulation, enterprise ownership and management) rested with the Ministry of Industry
and Energy. Following the reorganization of the Government in July 1993, the Ministry of Industry and
indebted enterprises, the tendency of enterprises to exaggerate debt positions, etc.



The Economy & Energy Sector                                                              5
Energy was abolished and responsibility for the energy sector was transferred to the Energy Division
within the newly created Ministry of Economy. At the present time, responsibility for policy formulation
and facilitation of energy sector development and investments rests with the Energy Division of the
Ministry of Economy. In line with the recommendations of the EU-PHARE financed "Latvia Energy
Sector Restructuring Study" completed in August, 1993, responsibility for enterprise management and
policy implementation were divested from the ministry and given to the newly created joint-stock
companies: Latvenergo, Latvijas Gaze. The joint-stock companies were given independent legal status
and a two-tier management structure comprising a board of directors with external representation and a
management board of key enterprise managers introduced. The Latvian Energy Agency (LEA) was
established in January 1994 to assist the Energy Division in policy implementation but has been largely
ineffective due to limited budgetary resources. In line with the Government's policy of transferring
responsibility for local functions to the municipalities, ownership of district heating systems has been
transferred to the municipalities.
1'. 17       Energy sector legislation is currently under preparation. The legislation would define a
regulatory framework focused on the: (i) definition of the rights and obligations of a regulatory authority
and sector enterprises; (ii) introduction of an authorization process for effective control of enterprises;
and (iii) definition of appropriate technical codes and standards. Under the law, an Energy Regulation
Board is expected to be instituted which would have the responsibility for regulating the energy sector.
1.18         Latvenergo, which comprises 15 divisions, is the electricity monopoly. It produces,
purchases, transmits, distributes and sells 99.9 percent of the electricity consumed in Latvia. Latvenergo,
through its subsidiary Termofikacijas Parvalde, also produces, transmits and sells heat to three towns -
Riga, Olaine and Liepaja.
1.19         Latvijas Gaze, the gas monopoly, handles all operations related to the supply and
distribution of natural gas and liquified petroleum gas (LPG) in Latvia. Gas distribution within Latvia is
handled through four regional distribution companies which are wholly owned by Latvijas Gaze. Latvijas
Gaze, which purchases gas mainly from Russia, also operates the Inculkans underground gas storage
facility.
1.20         Latvijas Nafta and Latvijas Kurinamas are involved in the supply of oil products and solid
fuels respectively. Latvijas Nafta, the former oil supply monopoly which accounted for less than 10
percent of oil sales in 1993, is in the process of being privatized. Though most of Latvijas Nafta's assets
have been divested to private companies, the company still operates a number of oil product storage
facilities in Latvia. Latvijas Kurinamas has the responsibility for the supply of solid fuels, especially
coal.
1.21         The Association of Heat Producers, an interest group created following the
recommendation of the EU-PHARE study, is similar to the District Heating Associations found in
Scandinavian countries that have large district heating systems.
1.22         Energy Prices. The Latvian Government adopted the principle of full cost recovery in
energy pricing in October 1993. Prior to the decision, the Government had attempted to control energy
prices in all sectors through a rather complex system of direct and indirect subsidies that unduly penalized
industrial consumers and placed a huge burden on the national budget. After the 1992-93 heating season,
it became obvious that the Government could not afford the huge burden that energy subsidies placed on



6                                                              The Economy & Energy Sector
the budget, especially in view of the IMFf-supported stabilization program that had begun in July 1992.
Following the Government decision to liberalize energy prices in October 1993, the authority for district
heating tariff approval was decentralized to the respective municipal councils though approval of natural
gas and electricity tariffs was retained by the Cabinet of Ministers. Given the liberalization of the oil
sector and the entrance of private players, it became obvious that the Government could not control prices
for oil products. Thus, pricing of petroleum products is market determined and is not subject to approvals
or control by the Government.
1.23         Between 1990 and 1994, domestic energy prices have increased by an average of 400
times in real terms. Most notable are the prices of natural gas and heavy fuel oil imports, which increased
more than 500 and 300-fold, respectively, during this period. Overall, the import price of natural gas
and oil products are currently at world market levels. Since liberalization, heavy fuel oil import prices
have fallen by half from a peak of Lats 97.5/ton in 1992 to Lats 45/ton in 1994. Surplus generation
capacity in neighboring Estonia and Lithuania has enabled Latvia to pay an electricity import price of
US$0.015/KWh, which is considerably below equivalent world prices.
1.24         Domestic tariffs for electricity and natural gas are currently at levels sufficient to ensure
recovery cf operating costs. The Government policy is to move to full cost recovery, including
appropriate provisions for investments, depreciation, and recovery of arrears. According to Latvenergo
figures, the 1993 average tariff of Lats 0.020/KWh (US$0.036/KWh) was just sufficient to cover
recurrent expenditures. For 1993, Latvenergo estimates its average electricity production cost, including
imports, at US$0.013/KWh. It also estimates the variable cost for domestic electricity production from
its thermal plants at US$0.032/KWh and from the hydropower plants at US$0.0091KWh for 1993. In
1993, electricity tariffs for the different consumer categories ranged from US$0.0151KWh for mass
transportation consumers to US$0.044/KWh for industrial consumers. Residential consumers paid
US$0.027/KWh. While industrial consumers continue to subsidize residential consumers, the number
of consumer classifications for tariff purposes is now three compared to thirteen in 1991.
1.25         The structure of domestic natural gas tariffs is similar to that of electricity with large
industrial consumers subsidizing residential consumers. In 1993, the average natural gas price was
US$116 per thousand cubic meters and has fallen to US$l I1 per thousand cubic meters for the 1994/95
heating season. However, many industrial consumers have switched from gas to cheaper alternative fuels
thereby leading the Latvian Government to consider lowering gas prices for industrial consumers.
Adopting a pricing mechanism based on alternative fuels would effectively reduce cross-subsidization of
residential consumers by industrial consumers.



The Economy & Energy Sector                                                            7
Table 1.1. LATVIA: FUEL PRICES AND ENERGY TARIFFS
Fuels             Units*         1990        1992          1993          1994
(average)    (4th Qtr)    (average)     (Ist Qtr)
Heavy Fuel Oil     Lats/t         0.136       97.5         50.0          45.0
Natural Gas        Lats/1000m3    0.121       6.25         64.0          64.0
Coal               Lats/t         0.053       20.0         23.2          40.0
Peat*              Lats/t         0.063       10.0          10.1         25.0
Electricity        LatslMwh       0.0125      2.25         20.0          20.0
Heat               Lats/Gcal      0.017       10.67         10.33         10.91
Source: Depatmet of Energy Economics, Ministry of Economy
*       Latvenergo CHP bulk heat sale price in Riga
**      US$ = 0.55 Lats
Calorific content - Coal: 5.OGCal/ton, Peat: 2.3GCal/ton
1.26         Energy Conservation. The Latvian Government has sought and received assistance from
various multilateral and bilateral agencies in the area of energy conservation. In 1993, under USAID
assistance, a team of expatriate and local experts undertook energy audits of various industrial enterprises
to identify low-cost energy savings measures. Investments for implementing the identified measures, up
to maximum of US$50,000, for both industrial processes and the premises were also provided. Under
the EU-PHARE assistance strategy for Latvia, energy conservation has received and continues to receive
prominent attention. The Energy Savings Strategy Study completed in July 1993 identified a number of
pilot projects for investments and proposed a draft law on energy conservation for Latvia. An energy
awareness campaign which began during the summer of 1994 is aimed at acquainting all energy users,
both industrial and the general public, with energy saving measures and techniques and at raising the
general awareness level on energy issues. A mass media campaign utilizing both the broadcast and print
media has made some progress in disseminating infornation about the energy sector in general and also
providing information on simple cost-effective energy conservation measures which each household can
implement to reduce its energy bill. The Awareness Campaign Program also includes seminars and
symposia for top managers in industry with the major objective of gaining their commitment to facilitate
adoption of energy saving measures at their enterprises. Other EU funded programns, as well as a number
of other multilateral and bilateral donors are active in providing assistance to the Latvian Government on
energy conservation issues.



8                                                             The Economy & Energy Sector
f                            C. District Heating Sub-sector
1.27         Latvia has an extensive district heating system dating from the early 1950s. Heat
production facilities supply industries with hot water and steam and households with heating and hot
water. Overall, about 60 percent of all Latvian households use district heating, primarily in urban areas.
About 80 percent of all households in Riga are connected to the DH system compared to about 4 percent
in rural areas. The DH systems are owned and operated primarily by the municipalities though
Latvenergo, the electricity monopoly, owns parts of the system in Riga, Olaine and Liepaja.
1.28         The DH systems in Latvia, as in most of the FSU, are recognized as inefficient converters
of fuel to heat and hot water. The inefficiency stems from several factors: (i) reliance upon heat-only
boilers (HOB) for heat production as opposed to the more cost effective combined heat and power (CHP)
boilers; (ii) use of boilers with very low conversion efficiency compared to boilers in use in western
countries; (iii) transmission and distribution network technology with very short life expectancy and large
annual maintenance and replacement expenditures, without which heat and water losses would be
extremely high; and (iv) lack of metering and control devices which prevent optimization of heat supply
and demand. While low energy prices in the past masked the degree of inefficiency in the system, the
rapid growth in energy prices over the past few years has increased the incentives for developing a more
technically efficient DH system in Latvia. Given the high cost of gas and heavy fuel oil, the two major
fuels used in heat production, both the central and municipal governments in Latvia recognize that
improvements in the operational efficiency of the DH system are essential to ensure efficient delivery of
heating services in a cost effective manner. However, it is essential that district heating be assessed as
one of a number of options for providing heat to consumers.
1.29         The institutional setup for the DH subsector in Latvia is new and rather fragile. Many
of the DH enterprises in Latvia have only been in existence since 1992 and were established under the
Latvian Government's program of decentralizing responsibility for local matters to municipal
governments. Many of these enterprises are very weak both organizationally and financially. While
privatization of the DH subsector is currently unfeasible given the weak financial position of the DH
enterprises, it is imperative to ensure that managerial and organizational efficiency is developed along
with technical efficiency.
1.30         District Heating Facilities. Heat is produced either in combined-heat-and-power (CHP)
or in heat-only-boiler (HOB) plants. Though economically more efficient, the use of CHP is limited to
two large plants in Riga (Riga TEC-1 and Riga TEC-2) and four plants outside Riga which are all owned
by large factories. These CHP plants have an imputed efficiency of about 74 percent but their operational
efficiency is estimated to be lower. The total length of the DH network in Latvia is about 3,500
kilometers of pipeline, of which the length of transmission lines is 350 kilometers. The average length
of pipeline over which heat is transported between the heat source and the end-user is about 6 kilometers
in Riga and 4 kilometers in each of the DH systems in the rest of the country.
1.31         About 85 percent of the heat networks in Latvia transmit and distribute heat through pipes
encased in concrete ducts. The pipes are poorly insulated with mineral wool and bitumen board. In a
number of channels, insulation is made of bitumen perlite, which, when exposed to water through
leakage, acts as a corrosive agent; this leads to excessive corrosion and premature degradation of the



The Economy & Energy Sector                                                             9
pipes requiring replacement in about 2 - 5 years, considerably below the design life of 10 - 15 years.
The remaining 15 percent of pipes, which are mounted above ground, are generally poorly insulated with
mineral wool and covered with metal sheets, and distribution branches and valves are mostly not
insulated. As water losses are high (often as high as 34 percent of flow as compared with less than 0.5
percent in well-designed and operated DH systems), the water treatment systems bave difficulty coping
with the high volume of make-up water4. The high leakage rate does not allow for proper water
treatment leading to internal corrosion in the pipes and other equipment. Also, the current shortage of
chemicals has further aggravated the water treatment situation. Improvements in insulation, water
treatment and abatement of leakages are needed to reduce energy and water losses in the systems. In
addition to greater efficiency, this will also lead to environmental improvements in the affected areas.
1.32         District Heating System Operation. The DH system in Latvia is designed to operate at
an outgoing water temperature of 150 - 950C and returning water temperature of about 70°C. Given the
rapid growth in fuel prices during 1992 and 1993, most district heating enterprises were unable to pay
for fuels and consequently were forced to run the DH systems at sub-optimal temperatures; outgoing
water temperature of 60 - 40°C which is inadequate to provide satisfactory service. Temperatures in
homes during the past few heating seasons have averaged around 10-150C and hot water supplies have
been rationed. Consumer connections in substations do not have any controls and operate with constant
flow and pressure conditions, requiring the DH system to operate on the same flow rate throughout the
beating season. This mode of operation does not allow the flow to vary according to energy demand.
The present systems also do not have the capability of economic dispatch to allow the operator to use the
least expensive source of heat at any given time. Maintenance in all parts of the DH system is poor due
primarily to the limited availability of funds for repairs and spare parts.
1.33         District Heating Fuels. In 1991, natural gas was the main fuel used in the production of
heat and accounted for about 52 percent of all fuel consumed in DH; heavy fuel oil accounted for about
32 percent. Following the rapid increases in energy prices, the proportion of boilers utilizing heavy fuel
oil, which is currently less expensive than natural gas, has increased and now accounts for about 45
percent with natural gas accounting for about 25 percent. About 60-90 percent of the cost of production
of heat in oil or gas-fired boilers is attributable to the fuel cost alone. In 1992, heat production was
estimated at about 38 TWh. Therefore, investments which would increase the efficiency of these boilers
or convert boilers from use of high-cost imported fuels to lower-cost imported or domestic fuels, where
technically possible, are of the highest priority in reducing the cost of heat production.
1.34         Heat Tariffs. The Government's policy, adopted on October 13, 1993, is aimed at cost
recovery in the DH subsector and requires municipal governments to make up the difference between the
approved tariff and actual cost of heat supply, if approved tariffs are set below cost recovery. In
practice, district heating tariffs are currendy at levels insufficient to meet full production costs in many
locations and constraints on municipal budgets make payments of the shortfall to district heating
enterprises extremely difficult.
1.35         The growth in heat tariffs has been astronomical since the onset of the energy crisis in
1991 but has not been matched by corresponding growth in household incomes. Between 1991 and 1993,
A/ Make-up water is the additional water that is pumped into the district heating network to
compensate for water lost due to leakage.



10                                                               The Economy & Energy Sector
nominal wages grew by 93 percent while real wages declined about 30 percent. During the. 1992/93
heating season, heat tariffs were adjusted monthly to keep pace with the escalating fuel costs and inflation
and it was not uncommon for heat bills to represent 60-90 percent of total monthly household income and
in some cases even exceed it especially for pensioners and other low-income households. However, real
wage growth was 1 percent in 1993 and is estimated at 12 percent5 for 1994. This positive trend in real
wage growth is expected to continue, thus making energy more affordable in the future.
1.36          Based on unverifiable data obtained for the 1993/94 heating season, it would appear that
the average district heat tariff for all municipalities in Latvia, excluding Riga, was at 90 percent of actual
production costs. District heat tariffs ranged from US$9.09/GCal to US$25.29/GCal at different locations
within the country, and actual production costs varied between US$9.91/GCal and US$34.09/GCal as
district heating costs and tariffs vary greatly across cities within Latvia based on system specifics.6
1.37          On the positive side, most municipalities have taken significant steps to reduce cross-
subsidization by consumer category. Starting with a rather cumbersome tariff structure with several
consumer categories in 1991, the current tariff structure adopted by most municipalities has only three
consumer classifications consisting of households, budgetary institutions (e.g. schools, hospitals) and
industrial enterprises. However, a number of issues remain to be resolved in district heating pricing.
First, the true level of costs in the subsector is difficult to ascertain due to lack of reliable data. Financial
projections for tariff approval are often fraught with errors and a major point of contention between
municipal authorities and heat producers. Second, tariff approval procedures and other regulatory issues
for the district heating subsector are unclear as many municipalities do not have the capability to truly
regulate the enterprises. Third, the inefficiency of the district heating systems, resulting from lower
design standards than used in western systems, the dilapidated state of facilities, and inefficient
operations, lead to higher tariffs than for more efficient systems. Fourth, political considerations and
ability of consumers to pay high tariffs often lead to approval of tariffs at levels insufficient to cover
costs.
1.38          The current project will provide technical assistance7 and consultant services: (i) to
improve the financial and accounting systems of JDHC, and (ii) to assist the municipality in exercising
its regulatory functions over the district heating enterprise. The results from the Jelgava project will
assist other newly created municipal district heating enterprises which lack basic accounting and econornic
skills in designing appropriate solutions to similar problems. Technical assistance for institutional
restructuring of JDHC is currently underway, and a tariff formulation study was completed in January
1995. The planned investments would help reduce system inefficiencies, thus decreasing the level of
tariffs needed for full cost recovery. With respect to political concerns about consumers' ability to pay,
I/ Wage growth estimate is based on salaries in the state sector, comprising budgetary organizations
and state enterprises.
§/ System specifics include fuel choice, technical condition of the system, and heat source mix -
Combined Heat and Power (CHP) or Heat Only Boilers (HOB) plants.
I/ At the request of the Latvian Govermnent, a separate district heating pricing study will be
undertaken in 1995, with supervision assistance from the World Bank.



The Economy & Energy Sector                                                             11
the introduction of the low-income household assistance program will reduce the burden of tariff increases
on the poorest groups.
1.39         Heat Subsidies and Social Safety Net.  During the 1992/93 heating season, the
Government introduced an energy survival program for the country. The three main points of the
program were: (i) introduction of market prices for all fuels and other imported energy inputs; (ii)
approval of heat and electricity tariffs at less than full production costs; (iii) provision of state subsidies
to heat and power utilities to cover the difference between tariffs and production costs. The level of
subsidies was inadequate to cover all costs of production and the delay in payment of subsidies to utilities
combined with high inflation further exacerbated the situation. In addition, the inability of many
consumers to pay their heat bills in a timely fashion led to rapid growth in account receivables of all heat
producers. Direct subsidies to heat producers were eliminated for the 1993/94 heating season.
1.40         In recognition of the non-affordability of energy resources to sections of the population
and in line with its decision to discontinue direct subsidies to energy utilities, the Government created a
program for social assistance to low-income households to meet housing rent and utility bills. The decree
establishing the program is included as Annex 1. The program is jointly funded from both central and
municipal budgets on a 51 percent/49 percent basis though the funding mix differs between municipalities.
In general, the larger urban municipalities with good revenue bases contribute a higher percentage to the
program. Prior to October 1993, funds from the central budget were released to match municipal
contributions to the program. As a consequence, the program was grossly under-funded during the
1993/94 heating season as most municipalities were unable to release funds for the program and thus did
not receive promised central funds. The Government has taken a number of steps to make the program
more efficient, These include the release of central funds regularly without waiting for matching
municipal contributions, greater public awareness through mass media campaigns, and better means-
testing mechanisms.
D. Bank Energy Assistance Strategy
1.41         As part of the energy sector lending program and to further extend sector and policy
reform into different energy subsectors, the Government has requested World Bank financing for energy
conservation and efficiency measures in the district heating (DH) sector and for support in the
implementation of comprehensive energy sector restructuring, commercialization and privatization,
introduction of a suitable regulatory framework, improvement in energy pricing policies and institutional
strengthening. The investments to be supported by the Bank would be expected to lower energy import
requirements and production and operating costs and thus make energy services more affordable and
reduce the need for Government subsidies. The selected investments would focus on increasing
operational efficiency and plant rehabilitation, rather than construction of new facilities where existing
capacity is sufficient, conversion of plant to use domestic fuels, and environmental improvements. High
priority would be given to investments in the DH and power sectors and the associated institutional and
financial strengthening of the responsible agencies. For large energy investments, a regional approach
would be required to prevent duplication of capacity and resource misallocation. Energy investments
would also address environmental problems.



12                                                            The Economy & Energy Sector
1.42         The proposed Loan represents the first Bank investment loan in the energy sector to
Latvia. The project has been designed as a demonstration project to test solutions for energy savings and
reduced energy imports (see para. 3.4). A Bank Rehabilitation Loan (LV-3525) of US$ 45 million was
approved in October 1992 and provided financing for imported goods in priority sectors during a
transition period of about 18 months in support of Latvia's economic reform program. About US$ 22.8
million under this Loan was allocated for imports of fuel oil and natural gas. A co-financing arrangement
for the Rehabilitation loan provided an additional US$35 million from the Japanese Export-Import Bank.
Of this amount, US$23 million was allocated for natural gas imports. Implementation of the Loan is
proceeding satisfactorily, and energy imports were procured quickly to improve the availability of energy
supplies during the past two winters.
1.43         Past experience in implementation of other Bank-supported DH projects is limited to an
ongoing project in Poland, a component of an environmental project in China, a project in Estonia
approved in May 1994, and a second project in Poland approved in November 1994; the latter two have
recently become effective. Some lessons learned to-date include: (a) decentralized project management
arrangements work far better than centralized arrangements; and (b) it is important to ensure that future
investments in expanding the DH systems are properly justified and therefore heat planning for the long-
term development of major DH systems should be undertaken during the project period. These lessons
have been considered in the design of the proposed project.
1.44         The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's overall country assistance strategy in
Latvia, which assigns emphasis to the energy sector and seeks to support Latvia's efforts to improve
energy efficiency by replacing or rehabilitating existing production facilities. The strategy also calls for
greater efforts in energy conservation, pricing and transfer of ownership. The project is also fully
consistent with the Government's energy policy, which supports energy conservation, improvement of
the efficiency of energy facilities, reduction of environmental impact, and rehabilitation of existing plants.
The efficiency gains and reduced import bill would lead to lower costs of heat production and operation
thereby resulting in more affordable heat tariffs and lower requirements for heat subsidies. Most
importantly, the quality and reliability of heating services would be improved. At the same time,
institutional development programs for concerned energy agencies would help strengthen their
management and operations.



The Project                                                                            13
II. THE CITY OF JELGAVA AND JDHC
2.1          The City of Jelgava has a population of approximately 75,000, and is located about 30
km south of Riga, on the Lielupe River. The surrounding areas are mainly flat land, only some meters
above sea level, with a mixture of forests and farm land. The soil in the area is often water-logged and
the ground water level is extremely high.
2.2          Prior to independence, Jelgava was one of the major industrial cities in Latvia. The four
largest industrial enterprises being the Riga Autobus Factory (RAF), Sugar Factory, Agricultural
Machinery Factory, and the Linen Flax Factory. The Agricultural University is also a major employer
in the City. Following the collapse of the Soviet Union and the resulting disruption in trade, these four
industrial concerns suffered severe output decline. The collapse of these industries adversely affected the
City and its inhabitants. Beginning in 1992, the City of Jelgava began to restructure its economy through
a program to encourage entrepreneurial activities. With assistance from various bilateral sources, the City
set up a business center and succeeded in registering 1,300 small businesses by the end of 1994. This
grassroots economic renewal and the proximity to Riga have enabled Jelgava recover more rapidly from
economic recession. While the restructuring of the four main industrial concerns is yet to begin, the most
likely outcome is expected to be privatization with equity participation from foreign firms with western
technical know-how.
2.3          The Jelgava District Heating Company (JDHC) is a municipal enterprise in accordance
with the Latvian Law on Municipal Enterprises. Under the law, municipal enterprises have a high degree
of autonomy in enterprise management and operations and the municipality retains the right to appoint
the managing director of the enterprise and to approve tariffs. In practice, district heating enterprises
enjoy less autonomy than provided by the law due to their weak financial positions which engender a high
degree of dependence on municipal funds for their daily operations. Under the current setup, the
Managing Director is appointed for a five-year term and has total responsibility for all administrative and
personnel matters, and undertakes investment decisions in conjunction with the City Technical Department
and the City Chief Economist. JDHC currently employs 278 people. The present organization of JDHC
is shown in Annex 3 of the SAR. As part of the commercialization of JDHC, agreement was obtained
during negotiations that by March 31, 1996; the City of Jelgava would register JDHC as a joint stock
company (para 6.1 (i)).
2.4          Since JDHC's establishment in 1992 as a municipal enterprise, the City of Jelgava has
been very supportive of JDHC both in terms of approving tariff increases and providing financial
assistance both for operational and investment needs. The City provided over Lats 200,000 to JDHC in
interest free short term loans in 1992, and Lats 220,000 borrowed from the Swedish Government through
the NUTEK program to undertake urgent rehabilitation of the DH system. Another major area of
cooperation for both the City and JDHC has been in energy conservation. The City of Jelgava has
initiated a program on public education and awareness in energy conservation and sees the metering of
residential consumers as essential in influencing consumer behavior. The City has benefited greatly from
being included as a pilot site under the EU-PHARE financed "Energy Savings Strategy Study'. One of
its major industrial concerns, the Sugar Factory, was also a pilot site and beneficiary under the USAID
financed energy audit program. Using the results of the extensive work done on energy efficiency
improvements during preparation of the current project, the City of Jelgava is seeking financial assistance



14                                                                          The Project
from a number of sources, including the Danish concessional loan facility for Latvia, to undertake
housing improvements in order to improve insulation and reduce specific energy consumption. The City
of Jelgava had initially hoped to utilize funds provided by the EBRD for building improvements but had
to abandon the idea due to the difficulty of ensuring cost recovery and the delay in sorting out property
ownership issues in Latvia. It did, however, borrow from the EBRD to purchase heat meters (see para
3.3).
l



The Project                                                                         15
m. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1          The project, which would be the first energy sector investment project in Latvia, would
have the following main objectives:
(a)   to extend the life, and increase the operating efficiency, of the Jelgava District
Heating System through rehabilitation and introduction of modem technologies
and materials;
(b)   to improve environmental conditions in affected areas by improving the efficiency
of fuel use, facilitating the elimination of low-stack coal-fired boilers in
residential areas, reducing wastage of water in DH systems;
(c)   to support the strengthening and restructuring of the Jelgava District Heating
Company (JDHC) through consultancy and advisory services, training and
provision of equipment and software; and
(d)   to act as a pilot project for DH system rehabilitation, from soviet-type constant
flow system to western European technology, for other locations within Latvia.
B. Project Rationale
3.2         In its energy strategy planning, the Latvian Government has attempted to develop pilot
projects in order to better understand new technologies before embarking on large scale investments.
Following this strategy, a number of municipalities were approached as possible sites to be included in
a DH rehabilitation program under the EU-PHARE financed "Energy Sector Savings Strategy" study. The
City of Jelgava was one of the sites selected under the study and proposed by the Government to the
World Bank energy identification mission that visited Latvia in December 1992. The clear institutional
and ownership structure for the provision of DH services in Jelgava made it a good candidate for a pilot
project. A pilot project requires, for speed of implementation, that there are no fundamental problems
of decision-taking and ownership, and Jelgava has been able to satisfy these requirements. Added to this,
both the municipal government and the DH company have shown themselves willing to cooperate with
both the Bank and the Government and to pursue an improvement strategy that meets sectoral
development objectives.
3.3          In addition, the City of Jelgava had already began a rehabilitation project with funds from
the Swedish Government under the NUTEK program and EBRD Energy Emergency Loan. Under the
NUTEK program, about 600 meters of the transmission pipeline from the main boiler plant was
rehabilitated and some measurement and control equipment installed. This pilot project enabled JDHC
to test out the introduction of new technology, especially the handling and installation of pre-insulated
pipes instead of the existing system of steel pipes in concrete channels. The funds from the EBRD loan
were used to procure heat meters for buildings owned by the City of Jelgava. Implementation of both
the NUTEK program and the EBRD loan were successfully completed in the summer of 1994.



16                                                                             The Project
3.4           The Jelgava project will demonstrate possible solutions to a variety of problems that are
endemic to DH systems in Latvia. These include the need to: (i) rationalize heat generation; (ii)
rehabilitate existing DH networks; (iii) introduce modern technology in DH systems; (iv) ameliorate water
loss; (v) improve DH water treatment systems; (vi) introduce production and end-user metering; (vii)
improve the maintenance function; (viii) modernize enterprise commercial systems; and (ix) improve
enterprise internal organization. In addition, the project should demonstrate that it can be replicated in
municipalities whose district heating systems are relatively similar both in size and environmental
conditions. Finally, the project will be a good testing ground for other aspects such as the exercise of
the municipalities' regulatory functions over the district heating enterprise; financial discipline in bill
collection and effective imposition of hard budget constraint for energy; and the targeting of subsidies
to the lowest income groups.
C. Project Description
3.5           The proposed project consists of two components:
(a)   rehabilitation of Jelgava District Heating (DH) system, through a program to
upgrade the system to a variable flow regime; increase boiler efficiency; abate
leakage; install heat meters; eliminate environmentally unsound, low-stack coal-
fired boilers; and strengthen the maintenance function; and
(b)   institutional support for policy reform, project implementation and enterprise
restructuring for project agencies.
Rehabilitation of Jeigava District Heating (DH) System
3.6           The Jelgava District Heating Company (DHC) operates a heating system consisting of
approximately 47 km of two-pipe network and 25 km of four-pipe network. The Jelgava DH system is
divided into two major parts, East and West by the Lielupe River. The DH system on the West consists
of a major interconnected network which is supplied with heat from JDHC's own boilers. In addition,
there are six small, isolated island networks which are supplied by small individual boilers. The DH
system on the East side consists of a network supplying mainly a few large industrial concerns and only
a small number of residential consumers.
3.7           The component consists of:
(a)   rehabilitating the most corroded sections of the two-pipe transmission network
by replacing the corroded network sections (11.3 km) with plastic-jacketed, pre-
insulated pipe to seal leaks and reduce internal corrosion.
(b)   rehabilitating the worst sections (10.5 km) of the four-pipe secondary network
by converting them to two-pipe systems. The corroded domestic hot water
carrier pipes would be replaced with domestic hot water heat exchangers



The Project                                                                              17
equipped with automatic temperature controls in individual buildings, and the
main radiator risers in the buildings would be equipped with automatic
temperature control sets, consisting of mixing pumps, controllers and balancing
valves. The main heat sources of the West side network would be equipped with
variable speed pumps and differential pressure control valves at strategic points
of the network. These improvements would extend the life expectancy of these
secondary systems from the current 3-5 years to 30 years. Moreover, the use of
automatic temperature control for domestic hot water and radiator circulation
water could reduce heat losses due to overheating by 20 percent;
(c)    installing new variable speed pumps at the Ganibu and Rupniecibas boilerhouses
to facilitate the system conversion from constant to variable flow;
(d)    improving the quality of water in the DH system through the repair of existing
water treatment facilities and the addition of pre-coated bypass filters;
(e)    integrating small isolated island networks into the main network and thus
eliminating a number of polluting, low-efficiency, low-stack, coal-fired small
boilers by installing necessary transmission lines and substations;
(f)    isolating two base load boilers at the Ganibu plant from poor quality DH
circulation water by installing heat exchangers to improve their life expectancy
in heavy fuel oil use from 3 years to 15 years;
(g)    installing heat production and fuel meters and inproving the automation systems
at the main boiler plants;
(h)    installing oxygen analyzers in all major boiler plants to increase combustion
efficiency;
(i)    installing heat meters in about 550 district heated buildings; and
(j)    providing equipment and tools for the workshop and mobile maintenance units
in order to upgrade the maintenance function and introduce modem maintenance
management concepts.
A detailed description of the component is in Annex 1 of the Implementation Volume.
Given anticipated privatization of the housing stock in Jelgava in the near future; during negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the City of Jelgava that ownership of all district heating equipment,
wherever located, would be vested in JDHC (para 6.1 (ii)).
Institutional Support Program
3.8          To ensure successful and sustainable implementation of the project and also assist JDHC
in its conmnercialization efforts, a package of support services has been included in the project. During
project preparation, substantial technical assistance was provided to both JDHC and the City of Jelgava



18                                                                             The Project
through the Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) fund. The TA included: (i) a
study tour to two project sites in Poland currently implementing DH rehabilitation programs with
assistance from the World Bank; (ii) financial audit of JDHC; (iii) organizational and regulatory
effectiveness; CIv) tariff formulation; and (v) provisions for training and office equipment, computers and
software. Further institutional support would be provided under the project, including: (a) detailed project
design and supervision; (b) procurement and disbursement advisory services; (c) efficiency improvements
in accounting and commercial systems, including the billing and collection system; (d) procurement
training; and (e) a twinning arrangement with another DH company to assist JDHC in developing
effective procedures and practices and to better ensure sustainable institutional development.
D. Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
3.9           Project Costs. Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies but
excluding interest during construction and taxes, are estimated at US$ 15.2 million equivalent of which
US$ 12.3 million, or about 81 percent, is the foreign exchange cost. Cost estimates are based on October
1994 prices. Physical contingencies were estimated at 15 percent of base cost on all items except
technical assistance services. Price contingencies were estimated using standard average foreign inflation
of 2.2 percent per year, and local inflation estimated at 20 percent for 1995, and 6 percent for each year
thereafter. Average price contingencies are 9 percent of total base costs. Local taxes are estimated at
about Lat 0.3 million (US$0.6 million equivalent) and represent about 4 percent of the total project costs.
Interest during construction is estimated at US$2.4 million. Summary project costs are shown in Table
3.1 and detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 2 of the Implementation Volume.
3.10          Project Financing. The proposed World Bank loan of US$14.0 million equivalent would
cover about 79 percent of the total financing requirement, including US$2.2 million of interest during
construction but excluding taxes and duties. The Government of Sweden, through BITS, would provide
grants of US$0.5 million equivalent, and the Borrower would finance US$3.7 million equivalent.
Financing arrangements are shown in Table 3.2. The funds from BITS would finance the provision of
detailed engineering design and implementation supervision under the institutional support component.
Local financing would be covered by JDHC internal cash generation, with the City of Jelgava retaining
the residual obligation for the funds.
3.11          The relatively high proportion of the Bank's contribution to project financing is justified
because JDHC has had no opportunity to build up cash reserves given lack of full cost recovery tariffs
in pre-independent Latvia combined with the energy price shocks during the transition period. In order
to alleviate the company's weak cash position, the project is designed to gradually phase in full cost
recovery tariffs, and thus enable JDHC to build up financial reserves. In order to ensure that local funds
are available to implement the project according to the agreed implementation plan, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that in the first instance, the City of Jelgava, and in the second, the Borrower
would undertake the residual obligation for local funding if JDHC is unable to generate needed funds for
the proposed investment (para 6.1 (iii)).



The Project                                                                                                          19
Table 3.1; Project Costs
(based on October 1994 estimates),
La Million)                    (USS Million)
% Foreign Total
Local    Forein   Total         Local    Foreifn Total         Exchanre  Baso
Codta
NetworkRehabilitation               0.5       1.6    2.1            1.0       2.9     3.9             75      32
Conversion to Variable Flow         0.3       1.6    1.9            0.5       3.0     3.5             85      29
Boiler Rehabilitation & Automation  0.2       1.4    1.6            0.4       2.6     3.0             87     24
Boiler Elimination &  ntegrtion     0.1       0.2    0.2            0.1       0.3     0.4             78       4
Consumer Meters                     0.1       0.3    0.3            0.1       0.5     0.6             S2       5
Maintenance Function Enhancement    0.0       0.2    0.2            0.0       0.4     0.4            100       4
Technical Assistance                0.0       0.3    0.3            0.0        0.5   OS             tO0       4
Base Costa                            11        5.6    6.8            2.1       10.2   12.3             S3    100
Physical Contingencies              0.2        0.8     1.0           0.3       1.5     1.8             82     14
Price Contingencies                 0.3        0.3    0.5            0.5       0.6     1.1             55      9
TotalProjectCosts                     i6        6.8    8.4            2.9       12.3    15.2            81    119
Interest DuringConstruction         0.1        1.2    1.3           0.2        2.2     2.4            91      20
Taxes & Duties                      0.3        0.0    0.3            0.6       0.0     0.6              0      5
Total FinancingRequired               2.0       8.0   10.0            3.7       14.5    18.2            S0    148
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
Million US$ Equivalent
Loml    Foreign             Total         T
IBRD                                   -           14.0          14.0           77%
JDHC                                  3.7            -            3.7           20%
Government of Sweden                               0.5            0.5            3%
Total                                 3.7         14.5           18.2          100%
Numbers may not add up exactly due to rounding.



20                                                                             The Project
3.12          Flow of Funds and On-Lending. The World Bank loan of US$14.0 million equivalent
would be made to the Republic of Latvia and on-lent to the City of Jelgava to support the financing of
the rehabilitation of the Jelgava DH system. The loan would be made at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate with a 17 year maturity and 5 year grace period; and a 0.75 percent commitment charge, less
any applicable waiver. The proceeds of the proposed loan would be passed on to the City of Jelgava at
the World Bank variable interest rate plus a 10 percent mark-up to cover cross-currency risk and loan
administrative costs and would be repaid over 17 years, including 5 years grace. The foreign exchange
risk is expected to be borne directly by the City of Jelgava. The City of Jelgava would pass on the
proceeds of the loan to its district heating enterprise. During negotiations, agreement was obtained
concerning the on-lending arrangement for the project (para 6.1 (iv)). Signature of the subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and the City of Jelgava and the sub-loan agreement between the City
of Jelgava and JDHC would be a condition of effectiveness (para 6.2).
3.13         Retroactive Financing. A provision for retroactive financing up to a total of US$1.17
million has been made for expenditures incurred after appraisal but before loan signing. The City of
Jelgava has expressed a very strong interest in utilizing the retroactive financing provision and estimates
that it currently has provisions in its budget for up to 300,000 Lats (US$550,000 equivalent) to undertake
rehabilitation works on critical sections of the transmission network beginning early summer 1995.
3.14         Inflation and Interest Rates. Inflation rates in Latvia, as measured by changes in the
Consumer Price Index, were about 951 percent in 1992, 109 percent in 1993 and 36 percent in 1994.
Domestic inflation in Latvia is forecasted at about 20 percent in 1995, and at 6 percent thereafter. Short
term credit is now available through the conmmercial banking system at interest rates which have kept
ahead of inflation. Long-term investment loans, however, are currently not available in Latvia through
the commercial banking system. The interest rate on long-term investment loans provided by the
multilateral and bilateral Banks are therefore the only proxies for appropriate interest rate. The proposed
on-lending interest rate of the IBRD interest rate plus a mark-up margin of 10% is considered reasonable,
and is also in line with on-lending interest rates under the recently approved World Bank Liepaja
Environment Loan.
E. Procurement
3.15          Procurement will be administered by JDHC with assistance from  international
procurement consultants, whose responsibilities will include: (a) training of selected staff and developing
monitoring procedures for their use in managing procurement and disbursement; (b) assisting with
preparing specific bid documents based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for goods, including
notification of bidding opportunities; c) participating in the evaluation of bids and proposals received and
in the preparation of evaluation reports; d) advising on contracts with successful bidders and selected
consultants.
3.16          Procurement Procedures. Prior to independence, Latvia did not have a tradition of
competitive bidding for the public procurement of goods and services. Since independence, commercial
practices for procurement have been introduced. A Country Procurement Assessment Note is planned for
late 1995. The Government is now in the process of preparing legislation instituting public procurement
rules and regulations as part of its comprehensive program to transform its economy from a centrally
planned to a market-oriented system based on the development of a competitive private sector.
Government expects to present draft legislation for Parliamentary approval in late 1995. For goods,
works, and services financed under the loan, the Government will follow the World Bank's procurement
procedures.



The Project                                                                          21
3.17         The General Procurement Notice for the project was issued immediately following
appraisal. A summary of procurement arrangements is given in Table 3.3. A detailed procurement
implementation plan is included as Annex 3 of the Implementation Volume.
3.18         Procurement Methods: Except as noted below, contracts for the supply of goods and
equipment estimated to cost more than US$300,000, up to an aggregate of US$9.5 million, shall be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. The number of ICB contracts
is expected to total eleven, of which seven are expected to include installation and/or supervision.
3.19         For ICB contracts, local manufacturers may be granted a domestic preference in bid
evaluation equivalent to 15 percent of the CIF price or the amount of customs duties, whichever is lower;
provided that the local component of the goods exceeds 30 percent of their total value. Given the nature
of the goods and equipment to be procured, however, participation and competitiveness of local firms is
expected to be limited. Contracts for the supply of goods and equipment estimated to cost less than
US$300,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$1.8 million, will be awarded through
International Shopping (IS) on the basis of quotations to be obtained from a minimum of 3 suppliers from
at least 2 countries, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for the procurement
of items or groups of items costing less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate of US$200,000, may be
awarded on the basis of National Shopping (NS),on the basis of at least 3 quotations obtained from three
different eligible suppliers, depending on the availability of such items in Latvia. Goods and equipment
which are determined to be proprietary in nature, and acceptable to the Bank, may be procured on the
basis of direct contracting with suppliers. The aggregate total amount of such contracts, however, is not
expected to exceed US$1 million.
3.20         Contracts for installation and civil works, estimated at US$3.0 million equivalent, will
be financed by JDHC and the City of Jelgava, and undertaken partly through force account and partly
through local sub-contractual arrangements.
3.21         Advance Procurement: Advance procurement action for the procurement of a critical
section of pipe due for installation in summer of 1995 is expected to begin after negotiations. This
contract, to be procured through International Shopping (IS), would be eligible for retroactive financing
once the loan becomes effective. Additional procurement actions may also be initiated prior to loan
effectiveness. (See para 3.13 for retroactive financing provisions.)
3.22         Consulting Services: Most consulting services for engineering design and supervision, as
well as the procurement consultant, are expected to be financed through bilateral sources and will be
contracted according to their respective procedures. A limited amount of consulting services is expected
to be financed utilizing Bank funds, and shall be procured in accordance with the Bank guidelines on the
use of consultants.
3.23         Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank: Bank prior review would be required
for all ICB packages. The Bank will also require prior review of the invitations to quote and proposed
contracts for the first three contracts procured through International Shopping. Any contract awarded
after direct negotiations with suppliers would also be subject to Bank prior review. Prior review by the
Bank is estimated to cover about 75 percent of the Bank loan.
3.24         Procurement Monitoring and Reporting: The Borrower will establish procedures for
monitoring procurement implementation, including monitoring contract modifications, variations and



22                                                                            The Project
extension of completion periods. The borrower will maintain detailed records of procurement activities
under the loan and keep the Bank inforned about the progress of the procurement actions through
submitting regular quarterly progress reports.
Table 3.3: Proposed Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ million equivalent)
Methods of Procurement
Project Element                     ICB      NCB       Other       N.B.F.bY     Total
Cost
1. Works
1.1 Installation of Jelgava DH                                         2.8        2.8
Equipment
1.2 Installation of Heat Meters                                        0.1        0.1
2. Goods
2.1 Jelgava DH Rehab. Equip.          9.5'               1.3                     10.8
(pipes, heat exchangers, mixing  (9.5)              (1.3)"                  (10.8)
pumps, variable speed pumps,
automation systems)
2.2 Oxygen Analyzers for City of                        0.2                       0.2
Jelgava                                             (0.2)'                    (0.2)
2.3 Heat Meters                                         0.5                       0 5
(0.5)c"                 (0.5)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Design/Supervision                                  0.3             0.5d      0.8
(0.3)                    (0.3)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Interest During Construction                        2.2             0.2       2.4
(2.2)                    (2.2)
4.2 Taxes and Duties                                                    0.6       0.6
TOTAL                                 9.5               4.5             4.2      18.2
(9.5)             (4.5)                    (14.0)
aI Figures in parentheses are the am ount e fJiinace  y h Ban  Loan_
bl Not Bank-financed
c/ International Shopping (IS) and National Shopping (NS)-(US$1.8 aggregate for IS; US$0.2 aggregate for NS)
d/ Financed by Donor grants
e/ Specialized items may be procured through direct contracting, up to US$1 million aggregate.



The Project                                                                         23
F. Disbursemnent
3.25   The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against the categories summarized in Table 3.4.
The disbursement schedule is given at Annex 5. It is expected that disbursements would be completed
by June 2000, about 6 months after expected completion of equipment supply and installation. A
comparison cannot be made to standard disbursement profiles for DH projects, as only three Bank loans
have been made to-date for projects of this nature and they are still under implementation. The
disbursement schedule is considered realistic, given that a substantial portion of the design work and
preparation of technical specifications and tender documents will have already been completed before
implementation begins in summer 1995.
TabIe 3.4: Disbursernent Categories
Amount of the Loan Allocated     % of Expenditures
Category           (Expressed in US$ Eguivalent)     to be Financed
1. Goods                                9.5               100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory, and
80% of local expenditures fbr
all other items procured
locally.
2. Consultant Services                   0.3              100%
3. Interest during construction         2.2
4. Unallocated
Total                               14.0
3.26         Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, JDHC would establish a
Special Account (SA) in a major commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the World
Bank. The authorized initial allocation would be US$500,000. At the request of the Borrower, and
based on project needs, the World Bank would make an initial deposit or deposits into the SA up to the
amount of the authorized allocation. Applications for the replenishment of the SA would be submitted
monthly, or whenever one-third of the amcount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier.
Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow the usual World Bank procedures. In
addition, monthly bank statements of the SA, which have been reconciled by JDHC, would accompany
all replenishment applications.
3.27         Statements of Expenditure (SOE) would be used on goods contracts valued at US$300,000
or less; and for consultant services valued at US$100,000 or less for firms or US$50,000 for individuals.
JDHC would retain the supporting documentation and make it available for inspection by World Bank
supervision missions and by external auditors. The minimum size of the application for Direct Payment
and Special Commitment procedures is US$50,000.



24                                                                           The Project
3.28         The accounting for all SA transactions and for all other project-related accounts will be
maintained in accordance with international accounting standards. Annual audits of all World Bank-
financed components prepared by qualified independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance
with international auditing guidelines, will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the
close of JDHC's fiscal year (para 4.15).
G. Project Preparation and Implementation
3.29         Project Preparation. All components of the project have been the object of feasibility
studies which are complete. Lists of equipment and cost estimates have been provided, and reviewed
fully at appraisal. Detailed design, technical specifications and preparation of bidding documents are
required for many elements of the project and work on these have already begun.
3.30         Project Implementation. The project would be implemented by JDHC. Assistance in
project administration and coordination would be provided by the City of Jelgava. Additional support for
project management, procurement and disbursement would be provided through the institutional support
package financed under the project. A Coordinator in the Energy Division, Ministry of Economy has
been appointed to liaise with the various ministries, donors, the City of Jelgava, and JDHC. A detailed
project implementation action plan is attached as Annex 4 of the Implementation Volume. A summary
of the implementation plan is at Annex 4 of this report.
H. Reporting and Monitoring
3.31         The monitoring of the project will be accomplished through the milestones shown in the
implementation charts and key performance indicators. Key project performnance indicators, (Annex 9
of the Implementation Volume), were agreed at negotiations and reflected in the minutes of negotiations
(para 6.1 (v)). Given the pilot nature of the project, close monitoring will be essential to ensure that
lessons learnt are documented and available for application at other locations. Support would be provided
to the Energy Division, Ministry of Economy to design and implement a monitoring and reporting
program for the project. Semi-annual progress reports, covering all components of the project, will be
submitted by the Project Coordinator in the Energy Division, Ministry of Economy to the World Bank.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained, and reflected in the minutes of negotiations, that a mid-
term report will be submitted to the Bank not later than September 30, 1997, to allow time fbr review
before the mid-term review, planned for November 1997 (para 6.1 (vi)). An Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) will be submitted to the Bank promptly after the completion of the project but in any event
not later than six months after the Loan Closing Date. Included in the ICR will be an assessment of: the
execution and initial operation of the project, its costs and benefits derived or to be derived, the
performance of the Borrower and the World Bank and other agencies involved on their respective
obligations and accomplishments, and lessons learned.
I. Project Supervision
3.32         In addition to regular supervision for the review of procurement actions during project
implementation, semi-annual reports, and other documentation, supervision missions will be planned as
required. Owing to the lack of experience of the borrower with Bank project implementation and



The Project                                                                             25
procurement rules, the project is expected to require a supervision effort from the Bank at an average of
20 staff-weeks in the first year, about 17 staff-weeks in the second year, and thereafter, 10 staff-weeks
per fiscal year.  A project launch workshop is scheduled to take place immediately following
effectiveness. The Supervision Plan is shown in Annex 7.
J. Environmental Aspects
3.33         Environmental Review Process.  Preparation of the proposed project has included
enviromnental studies consistent with the requirements of the Latvian law on "State Environmental Impact
Assessments" (1990) and the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental
Assessment." In accordance with these procedures an environmental review was prepared, consistent
with the requirements for a category "B" project for the district heat rehabilitation program in Jelgava.
The institutional support program was placed in category "C" and did not require environmental analysis.
The findings of these environmental studies have been used to support design of the specific programs,
and mitigation and monitoring activities have been identified. The findings of these studies, proposed
mitigation and monitoring activities, and recommended institutional strengthening actions are presented
in Annex 8 of the Implementation Volume.
3.34         Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures.  Implementation of the
proposed project is anticipated to have positive envirommental benefits through improved efficiency in the
use of fuels, by contributing to a reduced level of air pollution in Jelgava, and by reducing the wastage
of water used in the district heating systems.
3.35         The project was subject to an environmental review which concluded that the proposed
program of improvements would have an overall positive environmental impact by improving air quality
during the heating season and reducing the wastage of water. The program would yield environmental
improvements through increasing the energy efficiency of the DH system, both by better integration of
the heating system, and by major rehabilitation activities which would reduce fuel use, and create
economic incentives for energy conservation. Key interventions include: closing four small coal fired
boiler plants and replacing them with block substations, which would reduce local air pollution and
eliminate the requirement for coal and ash storage, as well as ash disposal; and rehabilitation of the
distribution network which would reduce the wastage of water and increase the energy efficiency of the
heating system.
3.36         The environmental review assessed potential impacts associated with fuel combustion,
system rehabilitation, and waste disposal. In the older parts of the system, especially the boilers and
distribution network, asbestos has been used as an insulating material; therefore measures need to be
taken to minimize the risks to workers involved in the removal of this material. In addition, steps need
to be taken to assure that it is properly and safely disposed of, in consultation with environmental
authorities. Under the project, technical assistance would be provided to the Ministry of Environment
and Regional Development for the preparation of asbestos management guidelines, which would be
developed in coordination with relevant health and occupational safety authorities. These guidelines
would be complemented by technical assistance to assist the borrower in the preparation of a project-
specific asbestos removal and disposal plan which would require formal review and approval by
environmental authorities. Initial contacts with donors indicate interest in bilateral financing of this aspect
of the project which is expected to begin no sooner than the summer of 1996. These actions have been
included as elements of the environmental mitigation and monitoring plan prepared for this component.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower, acting through the Ministry of Environment



26                                                                       The Project
and Regional Development, would by June 30, 1996; prepare an enviromnental mitigation and monitoring
plan, including an implementation timetable for the project, satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.1 (vii)).



Financial Aspects                                                                      27
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Past and Present Financial Performance
4.1          The period of economic transition has been one of major change for the energy sector
in Latvia. The ongoing energy sector restructuring efforts, energy price shocks combined with major
revisions of the national accounting system have led to structural changes in the financial structure of DH
enterprises. Historical statements are therefore not readily comparable from year to year. The lack of
comparability is made more pronounced by distorted asset values resulting from recent high inflation rates
which have eroded the book value of assets which is only partially countered by periodic indexation of
whole classes of assets. As a result, past financial statements presented in the report are of limited value
in making projections or gauging trends.
4.2          During 1993, the first year for which financial data exists, JDHC sustained an operating
loss which was only partially covered by Government subsidies. The unexpected harshness of the
1993/1994 winter led to further deterioration of JDHC's financial position as the company was forced
to increase heat production considerably to provide a minimum level of comfort for consumers. The
difference between actual cost of heat supply and approved tariff for 1994 was covered by the City of
Jelgava as a subsidy to the district heating enterprise. The subsidy is expected to be applied to the
reduction of JDHC's debt to the gas utility. A plan for resolution of the debt is expected to be finalized
following the recommendation of the Central Government committee currently working on resolution of
outstanding arrears of consumers to the gas utility. The expected output from the committee is a realistic
repayment plan for each consumer category. The past and present financial performance of JDHC is
presented in Annex 7 of the Implementation Volume. A summary of the financial data is presented in
Table 4.1.
B. Heat Tariffs. Collection Performance. and Social Safety Net
4.3           Tariffs. Heat tariffs for the City of Jelgava are set by the City Council from a proposal
submitted by the district heating company. In the event that the Municipal Council and the District
Heating Company cannot reach agreement on a tariff level, the case is referred to the Tariff Arbitration
Board in the Ministry of Economy. Since taking over the responsibility for tariff approval in 1993, the
Jelgava City Council has supported the efforts of JDHC to have tariffs at levels that would cover
operating costs, and no recourse to the Tariff Arbitration Board has been needed.
4.4          Heat tariffs were revised almost monthly during the 1992/93 heating season to reflect the
rapid increases in energy input prices and inflation. Between January and October 1992, the tariff for
industrial consumers increased almost 20-fold. In 1993, the average heat tariff increased by 117 percent,
by 15 percent in 1994 and is expected to increase by another 16 percent in 1995. Heat tariffs in Jelgava,
as compared to other locations in Latvia and neighboring Estonia and Lithuania, have tended to be higher
because of the poor condition of the DH system, JDHC's reliance on natural gas as primary fuel in heat
production and because there is less subsidization compared to Lithuania. This reliance on natural gas



28                                                                         Financial Aspects
was engendered by the company's weak cash flow position which made the easy credit terms available
from the State-owned gas monopoly more attractive than paying up-front for heavy fuel oil purchases.
JDHC's utilization of natural gas was 75 percent in 1993 decreasing to 52% in 1994, though the natural
gas cost per unit of heat produced was almost 400 percent higher than heavy fuel oil'. The gradual
switch from the use of natural gas to less expensive heavy fuel oil, in addition to other efficiency gains,
will enable JDHC to reduce cost of heat production and thus future tariff increases. Projected tariff
increases are presented in Table 4.1. During negotiations, a tariff determination formula sufficient to
allow the JDHC to cover production costs, operations and maintenance, depreciation, interest, and make
a contribution to reserves was agreed upon. Assurances were also obtained that the City of Jelgava, and
ultimately the Borrower, would continue to approve regular tariff adjustments based on the agreed
formula (para 6.1 (viii)). The financial projections and analysis for tariff determination would be carried
out at the end of each heating season and submitted to the World Bank for review.
4.5           Collection Performance. The trend in collection performance of JDHC is positive and
continues to improve. The average collection rate2 in 1992 was 45 percent increasing to 71 percent in
1993. For the first 9 months of 1994, the collection rate averaged 126 percent indicating that arrears for
previous years were beginning to be paid off. Of the different consumer categories, municipal agencies
and institutions had the best payment record. As at October 1, 1994, the City of Jelgava had caused its
municipal institutions and agencies to clear past arrears for DH services and, in turn paid a total sum of
Lats 0.73 million (US$1.33 million equivalent). Though many agencies of the central Government have
made efforts to pay their heating bills and reduce past debts, collection from central Government
budgetary institutions remains a major problem. However, JDHC has begun disconnection of large
debtors on a pilot basis. In February 1995, one of the debtor central budgetary institutions was
disconnected for the remainder of the 1994/95 heating season.
4.6           The payment performance of industrial consumers has also improved significantly and
the collection rate for the first nine months of 1994 averaged 122 percent indicating that arrears for
previous years were being paid off. Beginning in 1994, JDHC began to sue delinquent industrial
consumers in court and has been successful in a number of cases. In addition, the economic upturn in
the Jelgava area has meant that industrial enterprises are beginning to make profits and are thus able to
pay their heat bills. Further evidence of the economic upturn is reflected in the dramatic increase in 1994
tax revenues collected by the City of Jelgava which greatly exceeded projections thus enhancing the City's
financial position.
4.7           The payment performance of residential consumers has also improved significantly. For
the first 9 months of 1994, the collection rate for residential consumers averaged 75 percent of 1994
billings, a significant increase from the 43 percent rate of the previous year. Based on preliminary
figures, actual receivables for 1994 was about 140 days which is lower than the estimate in the financial
forecast. The improvement in collection performance can be attributed to the economic upturn and the
introduction of a targeted social safety net assistance program for the neediest section of the population.
I/ Based on average prices, equivalent energy prices were Lats 2.06/Gcal for heavy fuel oil and Lats
8.19/Gcal for natural gas for 1993; and Lats 4.85/Gcal for heavy fuel oil and Lats 7.71/Gcal for gas
in 1994.
2/ Collection rate is the ratio of actual revenues collected to actual billing for a given period.



Financial Aspects                                                                      29
4.8          Social Safety Net. The low-income household assistance program which is jointly funded
by the municipal and central governments has made district heating services more affordable for the
lowest income section of the population. A total of Lats 297,000 (US$0.54 million equivalent) was
provided for this in the municipal budget for 1994. However, the program has not been wholly successful
due to social resistance and unwillingness of many potential recipients to be stigmatized as receiving hand-
outs. Social awareness campaigns at both the national and municipal levels are expected to help reduce
social resistance and encourage more potential recipients to come forward. Also, the decision by the
central Government to discontinue the practice of matching funds should enhance effectiveness of the
program.
4.9           Future Trends. The improvement in the financial position of the City of Jelgava as well
as JDHC is expected to continue in the future. The City of Jelgava, along with other large cities in
Latvia, are experiencing renewed economic growth after years of contraction. The economic turnaround
in Latvia is supported by IMF economic data which estimates Latvia's real GDP growth at 1 percent in
1994 following a period of 35 percent and 15 percent contraction in GDP for 1992 and 1993 respectively.
Projected real growth in GDP for 1995 is estimated at 5 percent. Inflation is forecasted at 20 percent in
1995, a marked decrease from inflation rates of 951 percent in 1992, 109 percent in 1993, and 36 percent
in 1994. In addition, household incomes are expected to rise faster than inflation and heat tariffs to
decrease in real terms over the project implementation period. Real wage growth is estimated at 12
percent for 1994 after years of decline. The cost of space heating would decrease as a proportion of
household income thus ensuring affordability and increasing the ability of residential consumers to pay
their heat bills. Based on 1994 average heat tariff and estimated average monthly wage, district heating
accounted for about 10 percent of household income in Jelgava.3 The introduction of targeted social
safety net for low-income households should enable this section of the population to pay their heat bills.
C. BillinE and Collection
4.10         The billing system used by JDHC is manual, time consuming and archaic; and is
described in Annex 5 of the Project Implementation Volume. The JDHC utilizes two billing procedures -
one for industrial/social institutional consumers and one for household consumers. Billing for
industrial/social institutions consumers is based on annual contracted consumption in the absence of a heat
meter. For metered industrial consumers, meter reading is undertaken once a year by the JDHC unless
discrepancies are observed. Using the predetermined level of consumption, bills are manually prepared
at the beginning of each month and delivered to the consumers by the middle of the month. According
to contractual arrangements, the bill is expected to be paid in full by the 20th of the month.
4.11         The procedure for household consumers is different and relies on consumers to calculate
the payment due and make deposits at one of eight banks approved by JDHC. Due to limited metering
of residential buildings, heating bills for household consumers are calculated based on the size of the
apartment and the number of occupants. Payments received from all consumers are manually recorded
and transcribed from month to month. This system is extremely time consuming and results in frequent
errors. Metering of residential heat consumption at the apartment building level is included in the project
3/ IMF average monthly wage estimate for the state sector for 1994 is Lats 78. Each household is
estimated to have 1.4 wages earners and heat consumption is estimated at about 8Gcal (equivalent to
Lats 111.2/year at the 1994 average heat tariff of Lat 13.9/Gcal) per household per year.



30                                                                         Financial Aspects
and would greatly enhance billing of DH services. Billing at the appropriate level, the apartment building,
is essential in enforcing payment through disconnection of delinquent consumers. Trial disconnection of
delinquent consumers on a substantial scale, during project implementation period may not be feasible
as current technology makes such efforts practically impossible.
4.12          As part of the financial audit performed by Price Waterhouse, suggestions for
improvement of the billing and collection procedure were made. During the transitional period before
consumer metering is possible accurate billing will remain difficult. JDHC has already taken steps to
automate billing and consumer accounts. Further technical assistance for the improvement of the billing
and collection system is provided under the project and is expected to be undertaken within the first year
of project implementation.
D. Accounts and Audits
4.13         Under the Soviet system, Latvian enterprises prepared limited financial statements on a
cash accounting basis which were used largely as tools for budget allocation under the five-year plans.
Following independence, Latvia began the transformation of accounting practices to a system more in line
with the needs of a market economy. The country is now in the process of implementing a new
accounting system on an accruals basis. Financial statements for all enterprises are expected to be
produced according to the new system beginning in 1994, although understanding of the new accounting
system is rather limited. As part of EU-PHARE assistance in Latvia, some training has been provided
to JDHC in the new accounting system. Further enhancement of JDHC's accounting system is included
in the project's institutional support package.
4.14         While assets of DH enterprises are still thought to be undervalued, the current assessment
is that it would be inappropriate to proceed with a full asset revaluation at this stage, since existing heat
production facilities have excess capacity due to the large drop in demand over the past several years.
In addition, poor operational efficiency and outdated technology make an accurate valuation difficult.
However, once project investments, which are large relative to current asset levels, are commissioned,
the value of assets would be greatly increased and the cost of heat services would reflect a larger
depreciation charge and return on investment as the operational efficiency of assets is improved.
4.15         Project Accounting and Auditing Requirements. A separate project account would be
required to ensure properly maintained records of all expenditures related to the project. The project
account would identify all sources and uses of funds in carrying out the project, including a detailed
accounting of the use of the proceeds of the World Bank loan. An annual audit of the project accounts
undertaken by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank would be required. The audit report would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The audit report would also
contain a separate opinion on the statement of expenditure (SOE) procedure, when utilized, and on the
operation of the Special Account.
4.16         In order to monitor the financial performance of JDHC, an audit of its financial
statements by auditors acceptable to the Bank would be required. The audit reports, which would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year, would contain a separate opinion



Financial Aspects                                                                    31
on compliance with all financial covenants under the Bank Loan. During negotiations agreement was
reached regarding the auditing requirements of the project.
E. Future Financial Performance
4.17         Projections of financial performance of the JDHC for the period 1994-2000 are presented
in Annex 7 of the Implementation Volume, and summarized in Table 4.1. The projections have been
prepared on a conservative basis assuming that: (a) heat demand achieved in 2000 is only 80 percent of
the 1989 demand; (b) JDHC will increase heavy fuel oil utilization from 45 percent in 1994 to 70 percent
in 2000 with corresponding reduction in natural gas utilization; and (c) fuel prices are at world market
levels. The detailed demand forecast is presented in Annex 6 of the Implementation Volume. Though
interest during the project implementation period is to be financed from the World Bank loan, the annual
amount is charged to operations and is reflected in the calculated tariff. Counterpart funds for the project
are expected to come from the internal cash generation of JDHC with the City of Jelgava retaining the
residual obligation for counterpart funds if the JDHC is unable to generate sufficient funds to meet the
yearly requirements for the project.
4.18         The financial projections consist of income statements, sources and applications of funds
statements and balance sheets along with financial performance indicators. The financial analysis indicates
that the proposed investment will greatly enhance the financial performance of JDHC and enable it to reduce
operating costs and tariffs. Over the period covered by the financial projections, average heat tariffs would
decrease in real terms as the effect of fuel substitution reduces the proportion of fuel cost in the cost structure
from about 60 percent in 1993 to about 40 percent in 2000, and the efficiency gains from the project are
reaized. JDHC's operating ratio is expected to decrease from over 100 percent in 1994 to about 79 percent
by the year 2000. Average tariffs are calculated to ensure sufficient funds availability for local cost
contribution and adequate working capital, and minimum debt service coverage of 1.3. Though JDHC has
only one outstanding loan, its high accounts receivable and payable positions could have adverse effects on
the company's finances. In order to protect JDHC's financial position, agreement was obtained at negotiations
from the City of Jelgava, that it would continue to approve DH tariffs at levels sufficient to and/or otherwise
cause JDHC to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3 during the project period (para 6.1 (ix)).
To properly monitor financial performance, agreement was also obtained that the City of Jelgava would
require its DH Company to prepare rolling 5-year financial projections, beginning FY96 to be reviewed by
the Bank on an annual basis (para 6.1 (x)).
i



32                                                                          Financial Aspects
Table 4.1: Summnary Financial Stataent
(LIS '000)
1993    1994    199S    199      1997    1998    1999   2000
Income Statements
Heat Sales (Tcal)            214.6  248.5   251.0  275.9    302.6  304.8   306.2  307.2
Average Tariff (Lats/Gcal)    12.1    13.9    16.7    17.7     18.4    19.2    20.0   20.8
Operating Revenues          2,603   3,466   4,202   4,895    5,584   5,848    6,112  6,376
Operating Expenses           2,955   4,064   3,977   4,179    4,550   4,655    4,796  4,926
Net Incomee                  (15)    (0)    123       372       480    505      539    608
inanal Performance Ratios
Operating Ratio (%)          113.5  117.3   94.7    85.4       81.5   79.6    78.5   77.3
Profit Margin (%)            (0.6)   (0.0)    2.9     7.6       8.6    8.6       8.8    9.5
Debt Service Coverge (times)  6.6    8.4    8.3       4.9       4.0    3.6       3.5    1.7
Interest Coverage (times)     6.6    8.4    8.3       5.8       4.3     3.8      3.7    3.2
Receivables (days)            218    190    120       100        80      70      70      50
a. Preliminary ResUlts.
_/Net Income after tax, interest and subsidies.



Project Benefits and Risks                                                               33
V. PROJICT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Justification
5.1           Heat is a basic human need in northern climates. Although district heating is not the only
means of meeting the need, it has been the preferred option for densely populated areas throughout the
FSU. Individual building unit boilers burning natural gas and/or light fuel oil are also used in smaller
towns and for buildings too far from district heating heat sources. In the project design, alternative ways
of providing heat to the residents of Jelgava City were examined to determine whether rehabilitation of
the district heating system was the least cost solution. The analysis confirms that, for reasons of both
cost and practicality, rehabilitation of the district heating system is the optimal solution for the time being.
5.2           A number of options were considered. First, installation of individual boilers in each
apartment: this is considered unsafe because the present buildings have not been designed to permit
removal of flue gas. Individual chimneys for each boiler would need to be provided, which would prove
either prohibitively expensive and/or practically impossible as most apartment buildings in Jelgava do not
have chimneys in each apartment unit. Second, installation of large gas-fired boilers for groups of
apartment buildings: this alternative proved substantially more expensive than the proposed rehabilitation
as it would require extensive rehabilitation of the highly-corroded four pipe network of the existing DH
system.
5.3           The option examined in greatest detail was installation of individual gas-fired boilers for
each apartment building. This alternative would be more expensive than rehabilitation of the DH network
for Jelgava for several reasons. First, the base cost of installing a gas-fired system in Jelgava would be
a minimum of US$20 million and at least US$5 million for extension of the natural gas network under
this option, since additional capital costs would have to be incurred, on the one hand to connect the 43
percent of households served by the district heating network who do not currently have a natural gas
connection, and on the other to modify buildings to accept gas boilers. This base cost is 69 percent
higher than the base cost of US$11.8 million' for the district heating rehabilitation alternative. Second,
other costs, which are difficult to quantify, would be incurred to keep the existing district heating system
running during the period before all homes currently supplied with district heating are equipped with gas
boilers. Given the practical difficulties related to unclear property rights, which may take a lengthy
period to resolve, these additional costs could become large. Third, the switch to a space heating system
solely dependent on natural gas would be politically unacceptable to both the City of Jelgava and the
Latvian Government for security of supply reasons as long it relies on a single supplier of natural gas.
Dual-fired (gas and light fuel oil) boilers could be installed to reduce this political risk, but it is estimated
that they would cost at least 20 percent more, raising the base cost to US$24 million, twice the base cost
of the district heating system rehabilitation.2
1/ This base cost figure excludes technical assistance .
2/ In addition to higher capital costs, such an option would generate higher fuel costs, since light fuel
oil is about 30 percent more expensive than natural gas. Based on average 1994 prices in Latvia, the
equivalent energy prices are: Heavy Fuel oil @ US$8.97/Gcal, Light Fuel Oil (Diesel) @



34                                                                 Project Benefits and Risks
5.4          In addition, analysis was also carried out of the relative economic costs of fuels that
would be used in the various options; these are heavy fuel oil, gas and light fuel oil. The analysis,
tentative though it has to be in the current situation, confirms that the district heating rehabilitation is the
optimal solution. nhe economic cost of heat to consumers from individual gas boilers is closely linked
to the long run marginal cost of gas. The long run marginal cost depends to a significant extent on
additional investment needs of the rehabilitation of the existing gas storage, transnission, and distribution
system; introduction of seasonality in gas pricing by Russia, the current gas supplier to Latvia; and any
additional investments the Latvian Government may decide to make to ensure security of supply. The
economic cost of gas supply to residential consumers would include the higher fixed cost of additional
equipment required to supply gas at low pressure, and the relatively labor-intensive nature of residential
gas distribution. Given the uncertainty in many of the above factors, it is difficult to provide a firm
estimate of the long rmu economic cost of gas supply for residential heating in Latvia. However, it is
unlikely to be lower than the current cost of US$S18/tcm and depending on rehabilitation and new
investment costs, could be 30-70 percent higher. On this basis, it can be concluded that a gas-based
system would be relatively unattractive, on the basis of both capital costs and fuel costs.
5.5          The results of the above analyses are to be expected, since the sizing of the Jelgava
district heating system corresponds very closely to optimal sizing and heat load density according to
Scandinavian design norms. The load density of the Jelgava DH system of 2.1MW/km of network lies
at the upper end of the Scandinavian design norm of 1.0 - 2.5 MW/km.
B. PrEoect Beneflts
5.6          The proposed project would have significant economic benefits related to: (a) extension
of the usefUl life of the district heating system; (b) reductions in fuel costs and other operational costs;
(c) improvements in environmental conditions through saved fuel and a cleaner fuel base; and (d) various
non-quantifiable benefits related to institutional and management improvements. Details of the benefits
are provided below and summarized in Annex 6.
5.7          Economic Benefits The economic benefits for the project are based on estimates for the
following categories.
(a)    Energy SayiW   Energy savings would come from four sources: first, reduced
network heat losses through installation of plastic-jacketed, pre-insulated pipes and
use of automatic temperature control for domestic hot water and radiator circulation
water; second, better dispatching and lower water supply temperatures through the
introduction of variable flow and heat metering; third, boiler automation and
installation of oxygen analyzers for improved combustion efficiency; and fourth,
elimination of low-efficiency small boilers.
(b)    System life extension Because of the high ground water conditions in Jelgava,
replacement of highly corroded sections of the existing network, which have been
assessed as having a remaining life of less than six years, with pre-insulated pipes
US$18.05/Gcal, Gas @ US$13.92/Gcal.



Project Benefits and Risks                                                                  35
will increase the average lifetime of the replaced network sections to at least 30
years. Lifetime of the rest of the network will also improve due to improved water
quality and maintenance. Installation of hydraulic separation heat exchangers and
improvement in water quality are expected to extend the average life of the boilers
from the current 5 years to at least 10 years. These benefits will translate into
lower annual replacement costs and maintenance expenditures. (See Annex 6 for
details of the methodology used to calculate the incremental benefits.)
(c)     Reduction in water losses  Replacement of old pipes and other leaky network
components would reduce water losses from the present level of 2 percent of the
total water outflow from the main heat sources to 1 percent.
(d)     Air Pollution Abatement Elimination of four small coal-fired boilers would help
reduce emissions of particulates and SO2 in the City of Jelgava.
5.8           Economic Analysis An economic evaluation, based on incremental costs and benefits,
was undertaken for the project. Details of the economic analysis are presented in Annex 6, together with
key assumptions. All costs are expressed in 1994 constant economic prices, net of taxes and subsidies;
and the evaluation period is 1995-2015. The economic evaluation yields an economic rate of return of
24 percent.
5.9           Sensitivity Analysis Calculations were carried out to test the robustness of the project
and to analyze the sensitivity of the economic rate of return to: (i) a 10 percent investment cost overrun;
(ii) a 10 percent decrease in benefits; (iii) removal of the quantified air pollution benefits; and (iv) all of
the above. Switching values (values at which the economic rate of return is reduced to 12 percent) were
calculated for overall project costs and benefits. Further sensitivity analyses were undertaken for reduction
in duration of benefit streams to 15 years (1995 - 2009) and 10 years (1995 - 2004). The results are
presented in table 5.1. Project economic returns are very robust relative to the indicated variations in
key project parameters. T he switching value analysis suggests that project costs do not pose a significant
risk because the project remains economically viable, short of almost a doubling of investment costs; and
benefits would have to almost halve for the project to become non-viable.



36                                                                Project Benefits and Risks
Table 5.1. Sensitivity Analysis
Duration of benefit stream    20 yrs     15 yrs        10 yrs
Impact assessed
Base case                        24%          22%          15%
- 10% overrun in investment      21%          19%          11%
cost a1)
-10 % decrease in benefitsb)     21%          19%          11%
- All of the above c)
18%          16%          8%
Switching values
(at which EERR becomes
12%)
- Project cost higher by        1.55          1.40        1.09
factor 1
- Benefits lower by             0.65         0.72         0.92
factor*
Note: Investment costs include base cost and 15 percent physical contingency, but exclude
technical assistance.
a/ Overrun from US$ 13.6 million to US$ 15.0 million.
b/ Decrease of benefits from US$ 2.6 million to USS 2.3 million annually.
cl Overrun as in al and decrease of benefits as in b/
d/ Increase of investment cost from US$ 13.6 million to USS 21.1 million.
e/ Decrease of benefits from USS 2.6 million to US$ 1.7 million annually.
5.10         Non-Quantified Benefits The benefits quantified above are regarded as a minimum
measure of the true economic benefits conferred by the project. Additional non-quantified benefits
Include: (i) improved operational and managerial performance that will arise out of the organizational and
technical efficiency improvement program; (ii) reduced operating costs that should derive from efforts
to improve accounting and commercial systems; (iii) improved financial performance of the enterprise
stemming from improvements in the billing and collection systems; (iv) operational, managerial and
planning improvements that should result from the twinning of the Jelgava enterprise with a foreign DH



Project Benefits and Risks                                                            37
company; and (v) improvements in technical and commercial performance stemming from training of the
company's staff and management.
C. Project Risks
5.11         Being the first project of its kind for Latvia and Jelgava District Heating Company, the
project has a number of risks. The implementation capacity of the Company to carry out an investment
project of this order of magnitude is untested, and may result in a longer implementation period than
expected. To reduce this risk, detailed implementation arrangements have been fully identified and
agreed with both the Jelgava District Heating Company (JDHC) and the City of Jelgava. Provisions for
adequate staffing and implementation support arrangements would be in place prior to project start-up.
In addition, international and local engineering consultants would assist JDHC with technical
implementation of the project.
5.12         There is a risk of heat tariff increases not being implemented for political or other
reasons. Given the strong demonstration of commitment by the Government, the City of Jelgava and its
DH Enterprise to adjusting heat tariffs frequently during the recent period of energy price shocks, this
risk is expected to be relatively small. Monitoring performance in this area would be a major focus of
attention during Bank supervision.
5.13         Further uncertainty exists concerning the collection of revenues from consumers. The
rapid improvement in collection rates of all consumer categories, the upward trend in real wage growth,
and the introduction of social safety net assistance for low income households all indicate that the risk
of a renewed build-up of consumer receivables is relatively small.



38                                          Agreements To Be Reached and Recommendation
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached During Negotiations
6.1          During negotiations, agreements were obtained regarding:
(i)   JDHC to be registered as a joint stock company by March 31, 1996 (para 2.3);
(ii)   the City of Jelgava would adopt a Decision by March 31, 1996, vesting in the
JDHC the ownership of all district heating equipment, wherever located, which
has been or will be purchased by or for the JDHC (para 3.7);
(iii)  the City of Jelgava's and the borrower's residual obligation for local funding
(para 3.1 1);
(iv)   on-lending arrangements for the project (para 3.12);
(v)    key project performance indicators (para 3.31);
(vi)   mid-term review to take place not later than November 30, 1997 (para 3.31);
(vii)  the Borrower, by June 30, 1996, acting through its Ministry of Environment and
Regional Development, to develop and implement environmental mitigation and
monitoring plans for the project satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.36);
(viii)  the City of Jelgava, and ultimately the Borrower, to continue to approve regular
tariff increases, based on an agreed formula, sufficient to allow the JDHC to
cover operating and maintenance costs, depreciation, interest and make a
contribution to reserves (para 4.4);
(ix)  the City of Jelgava to require its DH company to maintain a debt service
coverage ratio of at least 1.3 during the project period (para 4.18); and
(x)   the City of Jelgava to require its DH company to prepare a report annually,
containing 5-year financial projections beginning FY96 to be reviewed by the
Bank on an annual basis (para 4.18).
Condition of Effectiveness
6.2          The condition of effectiveness will be that the subsidiary loan agreement has been
executed and authorized between the Borrower and the City of Jelgava and the sub-loan agreement has
been executed and authorized between the City of Jelgava and the Jelgava District Heating Company (para
3.12).



Agreements To Be Reached and Recommendation                                           39
Recommendation
6.3          Subject to the above, the Project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$14.0 million
equivalent at the standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 17 years including 5 years grace. The
Borrower would be the Republic of Latvia.
I



!



ANNEX 1
Page I of 4
Latia
Jeleava District Heatine Rehabilitation Project
Low - Income Assistance Program'
I. GENERAL REGULATIONS
1.1          The Law of the Republic of Latvia 'On the State Budget for 1994" in clause 5
provides for participation of the State in expenditures envisaged for benefits and assistance to low-
income inhabitants. The aforementioned means are disbursed to local governments of districts and
cities as target subsidies from the State Fund for balancing local budgets.
1.2          Participation of local budget in paying benefits and rendering assistance to low-income
inhabitants is planned as total expenditures for social maintenance, and in accordance with balancing
out revenues and expenditures in local budgets, settled from tax payments unless these are
insufficient, in which case subsidies from the State Fund for balancing local budgets are utilized.
1.3          In planning and approving budgets of local governments, expenditures for benefits and
assistance for low-income inhabitants, as well as target subsidies are indicated in total amounts. The
said target subsidies disbursed by superior financial institutions are shown in the revenues section of
the respective budget.
1.4          The extent of social assistance, financed by State and local budgets, is determined
differentially in accordance with the number of low-income inhabitants and the amount of revenue in
the local budget. The ratio of target subsidies against the local budget, which each district in
rendering social assistance shall observe, is set forth in this Annex.
1.5          In disbursement of planned resources to subordinate local governments, the said ratio
for each pagast, city in a district, or Riga city districts may be defined differentially in accordance
with the number of low-income inhabitants and the amount of direct revenue in the respective budget.
1.6          Disbursement of budgeted means is effected by the financial section in each district
together with respective services of social assistance, or by the Riga city financial council, in
cooperation with social assistance services in Riga districts. Relevant information is furnished to the
Department of Social Assistance of the Ministry of Welfare.
1. Signed by the Minimten of Funace and Welfire on March 18, 1994.



ANNEX-1
Page 2 of 4
II. APPLYING FOR BENEFITS AND SOCIAL ASSISTANCE,
PAYMENT, ACCOUNTING AND REVIEWING
Applying for Benefits
2.1           Rights to social assistance are the privilege of citizens of the Republic of Latvia, as
well as foreigners and expatriates, who reside and are registered as permanent residents in Latvia, or
have received a permanent residence application. To apply for assistance, low-income residents shall
submit a corresponding application to the local government, as well as complete a subsistence
declaration. In the event the declaration can not be submitted in person, submission can be entrusted
to an authorized proxy, or be submitted to a representative of social assistance during inspection of
living conditions of the applicant.
2.2           Declaration of means of subsistence shall be completed also in the event assistance is
rendered indirectly, as prescribed by para. 4b below.
2.3           The following groups of low-income inhabitants are entitled to benefits and social
assistance:
-     families raising children;
-     recipients of old age and disability pensions, as well as retired political
refugees;
i     other low-income families unable to maintain a minimum basic income level
due to unbiased causes.2
2.4           Benefits and assistance can be granted upon the stipulation that total income over the
period of three (3) previous months, calculated for each family member, fails to exceed 75% of the
monthly subsistence miinimum as established by the Cabinet of Ministers3; or the family owns no
property or cash whicn can be used as a means of subsistence.
2.5           Local governments shall determine the method by which assistance is rendered to low-
income inhabitants:
*     direct method - by paying benefit in cash;
*      indirect method - by distributing food rations or food coupons; arranging
catering through disbursement to schools and nurseries;
*     paying public utility bills for low-income families.
2.6          In disbursing benefits to local governments the regulation 'On the procedure
acknowledging a low-income family" (Cabinet of Ministers, minutes of November 18, 1993 meeting),
shall be observed.
Z/ Unbiased causes are defined as old age, sickness, disability, unemployment, loss of primry income camcr, or fitilure to
receive means for subsistence in compliance with writs.
3/ It presendy equals 75 % of crisis subsistence. minimum.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of4
2.7           In accordance with the law "On the State Budget for 1994", the Ministry of Finance
will disburse monthly advance payments to local budget accounts of districts, city financial sections,
and the Riga city financial council, indicating how the funds are to be earmarked.
2.8           During the winter months when heat is used, State budget revenue advance payments
may be increased by 30%.
2.9           After disbursement of target subsidies the Ministry of Finance will notify the
Department of Social Assistance of the Ministry of Welfare about actual amounts of disbursed
subsidies within five (5) days.
2.10          Within a period of three (3) days, after coordination with social assistance services in
districts, district financial sections will transfer the agreed amount for benefits and assistance to
respective pagasts and cities, in accordance with a planned ratio of State target subsidies for each
local government and local budgetary means. Local governments of pagasts or district cities in their
turn will transfer the means to social assistance services or to local government institutions which
execute functions of Social Assistance Services.
2.11          Financial sections of cities will transfer the means provided for social assistance
within a local government budget to Social Assistance Services.
2.12          Within a period of three (3) days, the Riga city financial council will transfer the total
subsidies provided for benefits and social assistance to local governments of Riga districts, which will
transfer these to social assistance services making concrete payments.
2.13          Besides monthly total budget progress reports of financial sections of districts and
cities, as well as Riga, the city financial council will furnish the Ministry of Finance with information
concernipg the total actual amount paid in benefits and social assistance to low-income inhabitants.
2.14          Within a period of five (5) days after receiving the appropriate information, the Social
Assistan"e Department of the Ministry of Welfare will effect recalculations and will submit proposals
to the Ministry of Finance.
2.15          Taking into account the ratio of State target subsidies and local budgetary means as
depicted above, and juxtaposing the actual total amount of means disbursed for paying benefits and
rendering social assistance and the amount of advanced target subsidies, the Department of Social
Assistance will determine the size of target subsidies for the next month to be transferred in advance
to each district and city, as well as to Riga districts.
2.16          In the event it is established that the advanced amount of a target subsidy exceeds the
amount actually spent, the target subsidy for the next month will be reduced by surplus and amounts
to be advanced are reconsidered.
2.17          Recalculations for December are to be taken into account in budgeting for the next
year. Examples are presented in this Annex.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
2.18          A review of the actual use of means for paying benefits and rendering social
assistance distributed in accordance with social groups of recipients and types of assistance is
composed in compliance with a review form attached to this Annex.
2.19         Social assistance services or institutions of local governments of lower levels shall
submit quarterly reports on the total amount of means utilized in a city or pagast to district social
assistance services and financial sections before the 10th day of the next month.
2.20         Reports of social assistance services of districts, cities and Riga districts signed by the
Chairman of the local government council and by the Head of the local social assistance service shall
be coordinated with the Head of financial services, and quarterly, to be submitted to the Social
Assistance Department of the Ministry of Welfare.
2.21         The Social Assistance Department of the Ministry of Welfare will prepare a summary
of the submitted reports, and shall notify within ten (10) days the Ministry of Finance of the use of
funds targeted at paying benefits and rendering assistance.
2.22         In the event financial and social assistance services fail to submit reports within the
stated period of time or the means envisaged for paying benefits and rendering assistance are not used
in accordance with the order stipulated by existing regulations, the Ministry of Finance can
discontinue disbursement of budgeted means to financial sections of districts and cities at its own
discretion.
2.23         In the event districts and cities have used an amount which exceeds the amount of
disbursed funds, sections will furnish the Ministry of Finance with information concerning additional
subsidies. The Ministry of Finance shall check this information and propose amendments to be made
in the State Budget concerning extra means.
2.24         This document hereby deems ineffective "Provisional regulation of procedures for
payment of benefits and rendering assistance to low-income inhabitants", approved by the Ministry of
Finance and the Ministry of Welfare on May 25, 1993.



Latvia
Jelgava District Heating Rehabilitation Project
LATVIA   -  Total Primary Eneray Supply (Mtoe)
5 
4,$
3       .-
1990                 1991                  1992                  1993
O] Natural Gas           ELight Oil Products      *Heavy Fuel Oil
El Hydro, Wood, Peat, etc. OCoal                 El Imported Electricity
CD>
o x



Latvia                                              Annex 2
Jelgava District Heating Rehabilitation Project                        Page 2 of 3
LATVIA  - Energy Supply (1990)
INDIGENEOUS (9%)                                                         IMPORT (91%)
\              ~~~~~Gas                             Hev Ful i
\28%23
Peal
4%                                                 Other Oil Products
Hydropower       3%      Coal                              30%
4%                    7%
LATVIA    Energy Supply (1993)
INDIGENOUS (19%)                                                  IMPORT (81%)
\   Gas                    /     Heav" Fuel Oil
Peat
3%
11%                                                     Other Oil Products
26%
Hydropower     E%ricity       Coal
5%                         9X



Latvia                                        Annex 2
Jelgava District Heating Rehabilitation Project               Page 3 of 3
LATVIA - Energy Consumption (1990)
Other
15%                                      Industry
- -   _     \   ~~~26%
Agricufture
8%
Transportation
22%                                                                                     __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
29%
LATVIA    Energy Consumption (1 993)
Other
12%                              Industry
Agriculture
7%
Transportation-
20%
Residential Sector
41%






Annex 3
JELGAVA DISTRICT HEATING COMPANY
Organizational Structure
DIRECTOR
Billing_&  EconomicsChief                                                 Heatnin
fj [ecIon                                   EngineerAcunng                            npeto
Mobile       Maintenance       Production         Labor
Maintenance      Workshop         Laboratory        Relations
Crew
Network  Network  Network        Network
Crew#1      ~Crew #2         Crew #3          Crew #4
sadstwS1273



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
1iz1:                                             1                                                                                                            U' 1  11
.............................................................. .......... . . . ....................   .................... ..................................  I   0
o}    1tg                                                                                                                                                     }i  
LF.
C4~~~~~~~~l
..     ..... ...      ................      ...........................           ...................
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~...................................................................................
I   l   I   n  xI*l, nlis*   1IsI  1                                   a  Ta



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
Jelgava District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements'
(UJS$ Million)
Cumulative
Bank FY&                   Disbursed in               Cumulative          Disbursements
Semes                      Semester                   Amount              as % of total
FY 96:
December 31, 1995          0.77                        0.77                 6
June 30, 1996              1.83                        2.60                 19
FY 97:
December 31, 1996          1.83                        4.43                32
June 30, 1997              2.10                        6.52                47
FY 98.
December 31, 1997          2.10                        8.62                62
June 30, 1998              1.33                        9.95                71
FY 99:
December 31, 1998          1.33                        11.28                81
June 30, 1999              1.07                        12.35                88
PY 2000:
December 31, 1999          1.07                        13.42               96
June 30, 2000              0.58                        14.00               100
l/Assuming Board presentation in Apr11 1995, effectiveness in July 1995. The expected closing date
would be June 30, 2000.



I



Annex-6
Pas!e I of 6
Latyia
Jelgava District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Detailed Economic Analysis
A. Project Benefits
1.1          The proposed project would have significant economic benefits related to (a)
enhancement of district heating system life; (b) reduction of fuel and other operation costs; (c) and
improvement of environmental conditions through fuel savings and use of cleaner fuel. Details of the
economic analysis are described in the following paragraphs.
1.2          Energy Savini  Energy savings will come from three sources:
(a)    Reduced network heat losses Network heat losses result mainly from the use
of old and corroded pipes of traditional technology and from water losses.
The engineering consultants performed field measurements to estimate the
network heat and leakage losses. Extrapolated to the nominal (i.e. rated
output) service level, heat losses were estimated at 17% of heat production
(11 % heat dissipation loss plus 6% heat loss from leaking water). At rated
output levels in constant flow mode, the average system temperature would be
some 90-95 IC, (annual average temperature of all supply and return pipes).
Because of the reduction in consumption and rationing in recent years, the
network has actually been operating at lower temperatures. The annual
average system temperature in 1994 was estimated at 65 OC. As a result,
actual losses were about 65,000 Gcal/annum.
In the 'without project' case, the average annual system temperature would
need to be raised to 80 °C to achieve the desired service level for the
estimated annual consumption in 2000. This increase in operating temperature
would result in annual losses of approximately 74,000 Gcal.
In the 'with project' case, the improved hydraulic balance of the system
would enable full service level at lower temperatures (annual average system
temperature 65°C), bringing the losses down to 65,000 Gcal/annum. In
addition, the elimination of 15 group heat exchanger stations (which would
save 1000 Gcallannum), 10.5 km of domestic hot water network (which
would save 5000 Gcal/aznum), half of heat loss from leaking water (wbich
would save 6000 Gcal/annum) and better thermal insulation in the 31% of the
network replaced under the project (which would save at least 3000
Gcal/annum) would reduce losses further to 50,000 Gcal/annum.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
Annual savings of 24,000 Gcal/annum attributable to the above changes would
amount to US$ 0.25 million.
(b)   Introduction of variable flow and heat metering Conversion of the system to a
variable flow regime and introduction of consumer metering would
substantially increase the efficiency of energy utilization through improved
dispatching and reduction in specific consumption of consumers. Provision of
heat meters and automatic control systems is expected to reduce the buildings'
overheating losses by 43 Tcal per annum (16% of year 2000 estimated
consumption), representing savings of US$ 0.43 million per annum.
Improved flow balance achieved by automatic controls and variable speed
drives is estimated to reduce pumping electricity consumption from the present
7800 MWh per annum to 2600 MWh per annum (from 3% to 1% of annual
heat supply expressed in MWh), resulting in annual savings of US$ 0.10
million.
(c)    Boiler automation Better load dispatch between boiler units (operation closer
to optimal efficiency range) due to new automation systems, better combustion
efficiency due to oxygen analyzers, metering of fuel purchases and heat
production are estimated to improve overall heat generation efficiency by 5
percent, resulting in annual savings of US$ 0.20 million.
1.3           System life extension There are two components of benefits under this heading: first,
savings in network replacement and maintenance; and second, savings in boiler maintenance and
replacement. The benefits attributable to the project for both components have been estimated from a
comparison of expected costs of maintenance and replacement in the "without project" and "with
project' cases. The estimates have been based on the results of investigations by the engineering
consultants into the current status of the network and boilers, the extent and nature of maintenance
and repair works carried out in the past few years, and the life-cycle characteristics of the pipe
investments to be made under the project.
1.4          Repair and replacement of pipe sections within the network depend upon the rate at
which they deteriorate and corrode. The rate of corrosion depends on a number of factors. In a
modern two-pipe system, such as those where typically pre-insulated pipe is used, the main factor is
the quality of circulation water; water purification plants ensure low rates of corrosion within the
pipes. However, in a network like Jelgava's, where non-pre-insulated pipes are installed in non-
ventilated and poorly-drained concrete channels, the important factors are the extent and duration of
ground water infiltration into the channels and the quality of circulation water in the network, as well
as the quality of steel used for the pipes and the quality of installation work. In Jelgava, parts of the
network are exposed to high ground water levels for various periods of the year, so that pipes corrode
from outside as well as inside. The rate of corrosion inside the pipes tends to be high not only
because of deficiencies in the water purification system but also because 30 percent of the network is
four-pipe and the domestic hot water supplied to end-users is highly corrosive.



Annex 6
me  3 of 6
1.5          In a mature network with a stable technology and regular maintenance, requirements
for maintenance and pipe replacement can be expressed either in terms of system and component life
cycles or in terms of kilometers of pipe to be replaced annually.! In the case of the Jelgava
network, estimates of replacement requirements in both 'without project' and 'with project' cases are
summarized in table 6. 1.
Table 6.1
Estimated replacement rates of network sections
Network quality              Present average   Estinated future
required         replacement rate
replacement rate  after project
ep/year   r
Very Poor, 22.5 km (31%)      3.8 km/yr       0.75 km/yr
Poor, 32 km (44%)          J4.0 km/yr         3.7 kn/yr
Acceptable, 14 km (19%)    [ 1.4 km/yr      11.1 kn/yr
Good, 4 km  (6%)           [0.3 km/yr       [0.2 km/yr
TOTAL 72 km (100%)            9.5 km/yr       5.75 km/yr
a/ this part of the network is to Be replaced under the propose prect.
1/    Thus, a system with a lifecycle of 20 years would normally have 5 percent of its pipes
replaced annually. Typical values of life cycles are:
- preinsulated pipe networks with good quality circulation water: 30 years
- non-pre-insulated pipes in dry, ventilated concrete casings with good quality circulation
water: 15-30 years
- non-pre-insulated pipes in concrete casings without proper ventilation and drainage, with
quality of circulation water of the typical Eastern European or FSU network: 12-15 years
- non-pre-insulated pipes in concrete casings without proper ventilation and drainage, and
surrounded by ground water for extended periods: 4-12 years
- domestic hot water pipes of ferritic steel and corrosive water quality: 5-12 years.
The above values represent averages for typical systems. In reality, actual life of any
particular stretch of piping will vary; within a system with an average lifetime of 30 years, therefore,
some pipe will have a life of as little as 10 years while some will last 50 years or more before
requiring replacement.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
1.6          The engineering consultants evaluated the Jelgava network and classified the network
into four categories. On this basis the kIlometers of pipeline that would need to be replaced annually
were estimated for both "without project" and "with project' cases. Thus, for the 32 kilometers of
pipe rated as in "poor" condition, it was estimated that 4 kilometers would have to be replaced
annually in the "without project" case; in the "with project' case it is assumed that 3.7 kilometers of
the pipe would require replacement annually because the improvement in the quality of circulation
water brought about by the project would reduce the rate of corrosion inside the pipes and thereby
extend the average life of the pipe. In the case of the 22.5 kilometers of pipe that are in most urgent
need of replacement, categorized as "very poor", and are included within the proposed project, the
replacement rate in the "with project' case is greatly reduced because a new pipe technology is being
introduced. Thus, the introduction of pre-insulated pipe will mean that the average lifetime of the
22.5 kilometers will be 30 years, rather than the current life-span which is well below 10 years, and
the annual replacement rate declines from 3.8 to 0.75 kilometers.
1.7          As the table shows, this methodology results in the amount of network to be replaced
annually, measured in terms of kilometers, declining from 9.5 kilometers per annum in the "without
project" case to 5.75 kilometers in the 'with project" case. The reduction of 3.75 kilometers per
annum represents the benefits of the project, and, converted to economic cost savings, amounts to
US$0.64 million per annum after the completion of the proposed project.
1.8          Project benefits in the boilers arise from installation of isolation heat exchangers at
Ganibu boilers to facilitate operation at temperatures above sulfuric acid dew point, improved
circulation water quality, replacement of circulation pumps equipped with carbon steel impellers by
pumps equipped with austenitic steel impellers, and improved maintenance throughout the enterprise.
These are estimated to reduce boiler plant maintenance and equipment replacement costs by US$ 0.93
million per annum.
1.9          Reduction in water losses . Replacement of old pipes and other leaky network
components would reduce water losses from the present 2% of the supply flow to 1 % of the supply
flow resulting in an annual savings of US$ 0.05 mill. per annum. The corresponding decrease in
water losses is from the current 240,000m3 to 120,000m3 per annum.
1.10         Air Pollution Abatement. Elimination of four small coal-fired boilers would help
reduce emissions of particulates and SO2 in the City of Jelgava. Reduction in sulphur emissions is
estimated at 128 ton per annum.
B. Project costs
1.11         The costs used for estimating the economic rate of return are the total project costs
over the period 1995-1999, including costs not financed by the Bank, and excluding price
contingencies, duties and taxes. Estimates of local and foreign costs are in October 1994 prices
updated to the estimated date of negotiations. Local costs are either directly costed in international
prices or are converted to US dollars using the average October 1994 exchange rate.



Annex6
page 5 of 6
C. Economic rate of return
1.12         The economic analysis has been carried out by comparing the benefits and costs under
"without project' and 'with project' scenarios. The 'without project' scenario has been defined as
continued operation of the system with no change in technology or operating parameters.
1.13         The project yields an economic rate of return of 24%. Project benefits have been
calculated as differential of annual fuel, electricity, water, maintenance and equipment replacement
cost between the alternatives of "with project" and "without project". Program benefits build up in
proportion to the progress of project implementation to full value in 2000 and remain constant
thereafter for 15 years. Calculation of the economic rate of return is shown in the table on the next
page and the sensitivity analysis below in table 6.2.
Table 6.2: Sensitivity Analysis
Duration of benefit stream    20 yrs     15 yrs        10 yrs
Impact assessed
Base case                        24%          22%          15%
- 10% overrun in investment      21%           19%         11%
cost )
- 10 % decrease inbenefitsb)     21%           19%         11%
- All of the above c)            18%           16%         8%
Switching values
(at which EIRR becomes
12%)
- Project cost higher by        1.55          1.40        1.09
factor 4
Benefits lower by              0.65          0.72        0.92
factor'                                             _____I_I__I
Note: Investment costs include base cost and 15 percent physi co ntingency
a/ Overrun from USS 13.6 million to USS 15.0 million.
b/ Decrease of benefits from USS 2.6 million to US$ 2.3 million annually.
c/ Overrun as in a/ and decrease of benefits as in b/
d/ Increase of investment cost from USS 13.6 million to USS 21.1 million.
e/ Decrease of benefits from USS 2.6 million to USS 1.7 million annually.



Annex 6
Pace 6 of 6
JELGAVA DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Retum Calculation
1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
COSTS ('000 US$)                                                                -2014
Local                              (91)    (681)    (781)    (509)    (331)
Foreign                           (862)  (3,410)  (3,637)  (1,918)   (1,354)
Total                             (953)  (4,091)   (4,418)  (2,427)   (1,685)       0
BENEFITS ('000 USS)
1. Energy Savings a/
Reduction in network heat losses    9       55       134      197      234       250
Variable flow and metering         17      109       263      386      461       491
Boiler automation                   7       44       107      157      188       200
2. Network life extension b/        158      614    1,028       759      613      643
3. Boiler plant life extension c!   33       205      495       729      869       927
4. Reduction in netw. water losses d/  2      12       28        42       50        53
5. Air pollution abatement/e          0        3        7        10       12        13
Total                             225        1    2.041    2.280    2.482    2.578
NET BENEFITS ('000 USS)            (728)  (3,050)  (2,377)    (147)      743    2,578
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN         24 %
Note:
a/ Oil price assumed at USS 85/ton, Gas USS 120/1000 M3
b/ Unit price of preinsulated transm. network is USS 300,000/KM
c/ Unit price of boiler capacity is US$ 50,000/MW
d/ Price of softened water USS 0.49/cubic meter
e/ Benefits attributed to particulates are US$50 per ton, and to sulphur removal US$125 per ton S02



ANNEX7
Page 1I
Latvia
Jeleava District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Supervision Plan
The supervision of the project is expected to require about 20 staff-weeks in the first year, about 17
staff-weeks in the second year and 10 staff-weeks per year thereafter. The schedule below is in
addition to the regular review requirements for procurement actions, consultancy and advisory
services and general administration, estimated to be about 13 staff-weeks for the first two years and
about 6 staff-weeks thereafter.
Approximate                                     Expected Skill                     Staff-
Dates                Activity                   Requirements                       Weeks
6/95                 Supervision                Engineer, Financial Analyst,         4
(Project Launch)           Operations Analyst,
10/95               Supervision                 Engineer, Financial Analyst,         3
6/96                 Supervision                Engineer, Financial Analyst          2
Environmental Specialist
11/96               Supervision                 Engineer, Financial Analyst          2
5/97                 Supervision                Engineer, Financial Analyst,         3
11/97               Supervision                 Engineer, Financial Analyst,         2
(Mid-Term                  Environmental Specialist,
Review)                    Institutional Specialist
6/98                 Supervision                Engineer, Financial Analyst          2
11/98               Supervision                 Engineer, Financial Analyst          2
6/99                 Supervision                Engineer, Financial Analyst          2
12/99               Supervision                 Engineer, Financial Analyst          2
6/2000               Supervision                Engineer, Financial Analyst,         4
(Project Completion)       Environmental Specialist,
Institutional Specialist






FINLAND      ..the boundlaries, colors,                                      24                                                                               27'
SWEDEN                                           denominations and any
other information shoe~n                                                                                        L     T     I
on this map do not
imply, n the art ofJELGAVA  DISTRICT HEATING
ESTONIA                   r The World Bank Group,
RUISSIAN    any judgment on the legal                                                                  R    H       B LT         T O               R      J    C
FED   status of any territory,                                                                       REHABILITATION  PROJECT
or any endorsement
Riga      '>              or occeptance of such                                                                      NATURAL GAS PIPELINES                        MAIN ROADS
L*AT V IA    <,              boundaries.
LIVT~9~ I A   1bounclaries.                                                                                  -         CRUDE OIL PIPELINES                           RAILROADS
*\.      ,                         ^                                                  _3330                            kv ELECTRIC LINES                     PORTS
N     LITHUANIA     L                                                            Kihnu                              TO  II                                                    RIVERS
-tUESESD    )                                                                                           Talo tel/e   >*-tdL             fF   S    t®*                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
.      BELARUS         58,                                                          /                                                o                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
POLAND        t                                                                                          s g           RLijiena_R o               To TTartu      4'
21'u                                                                                                 Aloia
,,   ¢Kolka                                                                                                                            T, P C/ C}   \   >;   XSire?/\   r'> - 45IoPskov
S    aLimbeii  J'4  m      ier o -'   '5    ~~~~~~~R U S S I A N
Ventspils                                                                                                     i,-<                                     AO jsne                t          F E D
Liep6Io                                                                                                                                                                  G  e
.a^                                                      To slauboi                              \s_              Fn    1                    \G neo                                            Or
56     <     TO Klolpedr, o <g;                                                                                                                                                                                           56-
um~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T ubanemi2;,.......?\  ..-\Kasvr ......... 
J~~~~ G                       rvrKraval N_ 
-udz
c                             0        20       40       60        a0       100 KILOMETER5S-                                                                                          2>                                            i
C                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __T._ _K_ _ip_   _ _ _ _TO
_                             0      10      20     30      40     50      600MILESTEB                                                                                                                       R
21                                                                                     24                                                                         *           27
L    I                                                                                                                                  I                                                                                   U'1, 












