Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3890 LV
                             Project Agreement
             (Jelgava District Heating Rehabilitation Project)
                                   among
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                            THE CITY OF JELGAVA
                                    and
                   THE JELGAVA DISTRICT HEATING COMPANY
                         Dated September 18, 1995
                                                         LOAN NO. 3890 LV
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated September 18, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the CITY
OF JELGAVA and the JELGAVA DISTRICT HEATING COMPANY (JDHC).
    WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Latvia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars
($14,00,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the City of Jelgava and
JDHC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
set forth in this Agreement;
    (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the City of Jelgava, the proceeds of
the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent
to the City of Jelgava for on-lending to JDHC on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
    (C)   by a sub-loan Agreement to be entered into between the
City of Jelgava and JDHC, the proceeds of the subsidiary loan
provided for under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement will be on-
lent by the City of Jelgava to JDHC on the terms and conditions
set forth in said Sub-loan Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the City of Jelgava and JDHC, in consideration of
Page  2
the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
    Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
                    Obligations of the City of Jelgava
    Section 2.01. (a) The City of Jelgava declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without any
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Project Agreement, shall cause JDHC to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of JDHC herein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable JDHC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
    (b)   The City of Jelgava shall on-lend the proceeds of the
Subsidiary Loan to JDHC under a sub-loan agreement to be
entered into between the City of Jelgava and JDHC under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
    (c)   The City of Jelgava shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Sub-
loan Agreement and exercise its rights under the Sub-loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Bank and the City of Jelgava and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the City of Jelgava shall not take or concur in any
actions which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof or the Sub-loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
    Section 2.02. Without limitation upon the generality of the
obligations of the City of Jelgava set forth in Section 2.01 of
this Agreement, the City of Jelgava shall:
    (a)   take all measures necessary to enable JDHC to meet the
financial covenant set forth in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
through periodic adjustment of tariffs of JDHC, which tariff
adjustments shall be determined in accordance with a
methodology acceptable to the Bank;
    (b)   take all measures necessary to reconstitute JDHC as a
joint stock company by March 31, 1996, as set forth in Section
3.01(b) of this Agreement; and
    (c)   by March 31, 1996, adopt a Decision vesting in JDHC the
ownership of all the equipment, wherever located, which has
been or will be purchased by or for JDHC.
    Section 2.03. (a) The City of Jelgava shall, at the request
Page  3
of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
under the Sub-loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
    (b)   The City of Jelgava shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan, or the performance by the City of Jelgava of its
obligations under this Agreement, under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and under the Sub-loan Agreement.
                                Article III
                         Execution of the Project
                            Obligations of JDHC
    Section 3.01.  JDHC declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental,
engineering and district heating management practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. (a) JDHC shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of
the General Conditions, JDHC shall:
          (i)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
                six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
                later date as may be agreed for this purpose
                between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of
                such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                reasonably request, for the future operation of
                the facilities constructed under the Project;
         (ii)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
                exchange views with the Borrower on said plan;
                and
        (iii)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due
                diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
                appropriate practices, taking into account the
                Bank's comments thereon.
    Section 3.04. JDHC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Sub-loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, JDHC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving the Sub-loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.05. (a) JDHC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Sub-loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
Page  4
    (b)   JDHC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by JDHC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Sub-loan Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                     Management and Operations of JDHC
    Section 4.01. (a) JDHC shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and district heating management practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
    (b)   JDHC shall, by March 31, 1996, take all measures
necessary to be reconstituted as a joint-stock company under
the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower with
operational and other policies and procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
    Section 4.02. JDHC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and district heating management practices.
    Section 4.03. JDHC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Financial and Other Covenants
    Section 5.01. (a) JDHC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
    (b)   JDHC shall:
          (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                and expenses and funds flow statements) for each
                fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                appropriate auditing principles consistently
                applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                financial statements for such year as so audited;
                and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and financial
                statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      Section 5.02. (a) JDHC shall periodically prepare in
accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Bank and adopt
the necessary adjustments to its tariffs that would enable it
to cover the costs of production, operations and maintenance,
depreciation, interest payments on debt and make a reasonable
Page  5
contribution to reserves.
    (b)   Before May 31 in each of its fiscal years, JDHC shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by JDHC and found
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would be able to
cover the said costs of production, operations and maintenance,
depreciation, interest payments on debt and make a reasonable
contribution to reserves in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results
of such review upon its completion.
    (c)   If any such review shows that JDHC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for JDHC's fiscal years
covered by such review, JDHC shall promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
    Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
JDHC shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of JDHC
for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to
the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be
at least 1.3 times the estimated maximum debt service
requirements of JDHC for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt
of JDHC, including the debt to be incurred.
    (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of JDHC
                maturing by its terms more than one year after
                the date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                providing for such debt or for the modification
                of its terms of payment on the date of such
                contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                providing for such guarantee has been entered
                into.
        (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference
                between:
                (A)    the sum of revenues from all sources
                       related to operations, including subsidies,
                       if any, and net non-operating income; and
                (B)    the sum of all expenses related to
                       operations including administration,
                       adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
                       lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
                       depreciation, other non-cash operating
                       charges and interest and other charges on
                       debt.
         (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                difference between:
                (A)    revenues from all sources other than those
                       related to operations; and
                (B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in
                       lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                       of revenues in (A) above.
          (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                charges on, debt.
         (vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it
                shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
Page  6
                currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                at which such other currency is, at the time of
                such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
                rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
                acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 5.04. By May 31, in each of its fiscal years
beginning with its fiscal year 1996, JDHC shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank, in a form acceptable to the Bank, a report
of the five-year financial projections, which shall consist of
income statements, sources and applications of funds statements
and balance sheets, along with financial performance
indicators.
                                ARTICLE VI
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
    Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
    Section 6.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and the City of Jelgava and of JDHC thereunder shall terminate
on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify
the City of Jelgava and JDHC thereof.
    Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
    Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    For the City of Jelgava:
          11 Liela Street
          Jelgava
          LV-3001
          Latvia
Page  7
    For JDHC:
          Katolu 6/8
          Jelgava
          LV-3001
          Latvia
    Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the City of Jelgava and JDHC may be
taken or executed by the Chairman of Jelgava City Council and
the Director of JDHC, respectively, or such other person or
persons as the Chairman of Jelgava City Council and the
Director of JDHC, respectively, shall designate in writing, and
the City of Jelgava and JDHC shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
    Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ B. Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                       CITY OF JELGAVA
                       By /s/ O. Kalnins
                                               Authorized Representative
                       JELGAVA DISTRICT HEATING COMPANY
                       By /s/ O. Kalnins
                                               Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
    Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
Page  8
1.  Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.  The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
    The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  International Shopping
    Goods estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $1,800,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.  National Shopping
    Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.  Direct Contracting
    Goods which should be procured as an extension of an
existing contract, must be purchased from the original supplier
to be compatible with existing equipment, are of a proprietary
nature, must be procured from a particular supplier as a
condition of a performance guarantee, and costing $1,000,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Procurement Planning
    Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.  Prior Review
    With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the first three contracts
for goods awarded in accordance with Part C.1 of this Schedule
and all contracts awarded in accordance with Part C.3 of this
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.  Post Review
    With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  9
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
