LOAN NUMBER 3890 LV
Loan Agreement
(Jelgava District Heating Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated Sep     esbc     )     , 1995


﻿LOAN NO. 3890 LV
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         71I                , 1995, between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
(B)   the Project will be carried out by the City of Jelgava
and the Jelgava District Heating Company (JDHC) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the City of Jelgava for on-lending to JDHC the proceeds
of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank, the City of Jelgava and
JDHC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank. dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
VII of the Charter of the United Nations."


﻿-2-
(c)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "Statutes" means the charter of JDHC approved by the
City Council of the City of Jelgava by the decision of the City
Council No. 143, issued as decision of the Council of National
Deputies of the City of Jelgava, dated September 24, 1991, and
registered with the Enterprise Register of the Republic of Latvia on
December 16, 1991, as amended to the date of this Agreement,
provided, however, that this term shall mean the charter or articles
of agreement to be adopted by JDHC as part of its reconstitution
into a joint stock company in accordance with Sections 2.02 (b) and
4.01 (b) of the Project Agreement once it is so reconstituted;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Bank
and the City of Jelgava and the Jelgava District Heating Company
(JDHC) of even date herewith, as the same may be am-nded from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the City of Jelgava pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time; such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Sub-loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the City of Jelgava and the Jelgava District Heating
Company pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Sub-loan Agreement; and
(e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
(c)   On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set
forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding


﻿-4-
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of 'this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)  For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date  specified   in  Section  2.06   of  this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as & percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."


﻿"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause the City of Jelgava and JDHC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the City
of Jelgava and JDHC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all e-ction, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
City of Jelgava and JDHC to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b)  The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
the City of Jelgava for on-lending to JDHC under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the City of
Jelgava under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Bank.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.00, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (telating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by JDHC
pursuant to Section 3.03(a) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that all records    (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Bank has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
made; and
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records.
(b)  The Borrower shal1:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section, including
those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year the report of such audit by


﻿-7-
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
including a separate opinion by said auditors as
to  whether   the  statements   of  expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals; and
(iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. By June 30, 1996, the Borrower will cause the
Ministry of Environment and Regional Development to prepare an
environmental mitigation and monitoring plan, including an
implementation timetable for the Project, satisfactory to the Bank,
and thereafter take all actions necessary to ensure that such plan
is carried out.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The City of Jelgava and JDHC shall have failed to
perform any of their obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the City of Jelgava or JDHC will
be able to perform its respective obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   The Statutes of JDHC shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of JDHC to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of JDHC or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) The events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) The events specified in paragraphs (b) , (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the City of Jelgava; and
(b)   the Sub-loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the City of Jelgava and JDHC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
approved by the City of Jelgava and JDHC and is legally binding upon
the City of Jelgava and JDHC in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and the City of Jelgava has been duly authorized, approved or
ratified by the Borrower and the City of Jelgava and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the City of Jelgava in accordance with
its terms; and
(c)   that the Sub-loan Agreement between the City of Jelgava
and JDHC has been duly authorized or approved by the City of Jelgava
and JDHC and is legally binding upon the City of Jelgava and JDHC in
accordance with its terms.


﻿-9-
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of Lhe General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1, Smilsu Street
LV 1919 Riga
Latvia
Telex:
161 232 NAUDA SU
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
By /A) 4- k/        S
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/5/       K &/y0ldS k-
Jg 1  Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Goods                     9,500,000        100% of foreign
(including related                        expenditures,
technical services)                      100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost), 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(2) Consultants' Services       300,000        100%
(3) Interest and other        2,200,000        Amount due
charges on the                             pursuant to
Loan accrued on                            Section 2.02 (c)
or before                                  of this Agreement
December 31, 1999
(4)  Unallocated              2,000,000
TOTAL                   14,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in      respect of payments made    fcr
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,170,000, may be
made in respect of Categories 1 and 2 on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1995.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for
(i) goods under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent each and
(ii) services under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in extending the
life, and increasing the operating efficiency, of the Jelgava
District Heating System through rehabilitation and intioduction of
modern   technologies  and  materials   and  improvement  of   the
environmental conditions in affected areas by improving the
efficiency of fuel use, facilitating the elimination of low-stack
coal-fired boilers in residential areas, reducing wastage of water
in the district heating systems.
The Project consists of the rehabilitation of parts of the
Jelgava District Heating System, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to
time to achieve such objectives:
A.    Rehabilitation of Jelgava District Heating system, through a
program to upgrade the system to a variable flow regime; increase
boiler efficiency; abate leakage; install heat meters; and eliminate
environmentally unsound and low-stack coal-fired boilers.
B.    Upgrading the maintenance function by introducing modern
concepts of maintenance management and providing equipment, tools
for the workshop and mobile maintenance units.
T  P  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 2000
through November 1, 2011          585,000.00
And on May 1, 2012                 545,000.00
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿-15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                       Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                      0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                        0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                      1.00
maturity


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Accou7it and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.


﻿- 17 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown  by   said  account  of   the  remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
.All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, fu nis' to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that s  Ach f ayment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstandinc  th  provisions of paragraph    3 of this
Schedule, the Bank sv'all aot be required to make further deposits
into the Special Acccint.
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;


﻿- 18 -
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawals from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amolnt not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to th-.- Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


