Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/.Al  3/fA-i
Report No. 7995-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 20, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
Thi document has a resricted dItibution and may be used by re*ponS oly In the performance of
thir oflidcI dute. Its contets may not otherwise be didosed wthout Wodd Sank authorization.



CURREfNCY EOUUIVAENS
Currency unit - Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00 - M$2.70
M$1.00 - US$0.37
(as of October 31, 1989)
FISCAL-MMA
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km          kilometer (0.62 miles)
mi    -    mile (1.6093 kilometers)
sq iii -    square mile (2.5900 square kilometers)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EPU   -    Economic Planning Unit
ERR   -    Economic Rate of Return
HPU   -    Highway Planning Unit
JKR   -    Department of Public Works (in MPW)
ICB   -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB   -    Local Competitive Bidding
LIM   -    Malaysian Highway Authority
NOT   -    Ministry of Transport
N4OW   -    Ministry of Works
MPE   -    Ministry of Public Enterprises
NTPR  -    National Transport Policy Review
VOC   -    Vehicle operating cost
VPD   -    Vehicles per day



FOR OMCIAL UR ONL'
- i -
1AIAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Malaysia
Amount:           US$83.2 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in 17 years including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Proiect           The proposed project would assist Government to achieve the
Descriptiol:      Fifth Malaysia Plan's primary objective for the highway
subsector, that is, to preserve and improve the existing
federal highway network so that it can safely and adequately
cater to rapidly increasing traffic demand. Specifically, the
project would:  improve road maintenance capabilities and
operations  on  the  federal  road  network;  improve  the
coordination of highway planning at the state and federal
levels; improve the existing network of national highways and
bridges; reduce future damage to the roads through an enhanced
truck weight control program; and improve road safety. The
project, which would focus on the needs of Peninsular Malaysia,
has the following components: (a) implementation of a
Maintenance Improvement Program, including the rehabilitation
of some 562 km of road pavements and improvement of maintenance
operations; (b) replacement of about 67 bridges; (c)
improvement of about 56 km of road; (d) various physical works
to improve road safety; (e) construction of 35 weighbridges
for a Truck Weight Control Program; (f) consultant services
and technical assistance to, among other things, strengthen
highway planning and road and bridge maintenance capabilities;
and (g) training. The project poses no unusual risks.
This document has a estricted distribution and way be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofmcia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Co0t:                             Local       Forein       Total
-------      (U$ million)----------
Civil Works
Maintenance Improvement Program       42.9         23.1         66.0
Bridge Replacement                     7.7          9.5         17.2
Truck Weight Control Program           5.7          3.8          9.5
Highway Improvements                  26.8         21.9         48.7
Road Safety Improvement               14.7          ?.9         22.6
Equipment                                  -           6.2          6.2
Consulting Services, Technical
Assistance and Training                            10.8         10.8
Total Base Costs                      9            8           181.0
Physical Contingencies                 9.8          8.3         18.1
Price Contingencies                   12.7         17.4         30.1
TotpalProject Cost1                  120.A        108.9        229.3
Land Acquisition                       9.9          -            9.9
Total Financing Reauired          130.3        108.9       239.2
Financing Plan:
Government of Malaysia               130.3         25.2        155.5
World Bank (proposed loan)              -          83.2         83.2
(Loan 2642-MA)              -           0.5          0.5
Total                             130.3        108.9       239.2
Estimated Disbursements:   zx         1990   19      19292 I3    1994  1995
-------------(US$ million)------------
Annual                          2.0     8.0   15.0   30.0    26.0   2.2
Cumulative                      2.0    10.0   25.0   55.0    81.0  83.2
Rate of Return:   24%
Ha:  IBRD 21488
1      Excludes taxes and duties estimated at US$27.5 million.



- iii .
WAYSE
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROV^2ENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Ng,
Loa#n and Project S u mr ............  .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . .. .
1.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   .1. .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...    . .
A. Geographic and Economic Setting .1.. .      .  .  .     . .
B. The Transport System  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
C. Bank Lending to the Transport Sector and Sector
Strategy  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  3
2.    THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...    .  5
A. The Network .5...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  S
B.  Traffic ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  5
C. Road Transport Industry ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
D. Highway Expenditures and Road User Chtarges   . .         7
E. Highway Investments under the Fifth Development
Plan  .....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  8
F. Organization and Administration ... .       .  .  .  .    .  8
C. Planning  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
H. Highway Design and Construction ... .       .  .  .  .    .  10
I.  Maintenance .....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  11
3.    THE PROJECT .....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
A. Project Formulation ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
B. Project Objectives  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement  ... .       .  .  .  .    .  15
D. Project Description ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
E. Project Cost and Financing  ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .    .  23
F. Project Implementation  ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25
G. Procurement ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  27
H. Disbursements ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
I.  Accounts and Audit  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  30
J.  Monitoring and Reporting  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .   .  30
4.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  30
5.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ... .        .  .  .    .  32
This report was prepared by Mr. Maurice LeBlanc (Senior Transport Economist),
Mr. Leonard Schiffman (Transport Engineer, consultant) and Mrs. Shirin Velji
(Research Assistant) following appraisal of the project in April/May 1989. The
report was edited by P. Brereton-Miller. Ms. Norsiah Sumardi also assisted in
the production of the report.



- iv -
TA,BLE6
1.1   Transport Investment Summary
2.1   Evolution of Peninsular Malaysia's Road Network
2.2   Length of Roads in Peninsular Malaysia by State, 1987
2.3   Traffic Composition on Major Links of Federal Highways in Peninsular
Malaysia, 1986
2.4   Traffic at Selected Locations on Toll Expressways in Peninsular Malaysia.
1985-88
2.5   Cumulative Number of Motor Vehicles in Peninsular Malaysia by Type and
Year, 1977-86
2.6   Accident Statistics for Peninsular Malaysia
2.7   Geometric Design Criteria for Major Roads in Rural Areas
2.8   Geometric Design Criteria for Major Roads in Urban Areas
2.9   Geometric Design Criteria for Roads in Rural Areas
2.10 JKR 'Quarries" in Peninsular Malaysia
2.11 Actual and Anticipated JKR Road Maintenance Budgets for Federal Highways
in Peninsular Malaysia by State, 1985-94
2.12 Distribution of Maintenance Personnel by State, 1989
2.13 Personnel Needed for Maintenance Program, 1989
2.14 Distribution of Bridges on Federal Highways in Peninsular Malaysia by State
3.1   Rehabilitation and Strengthening Program for Federal Roads in Peninsular
Malaysia
3.2   Maintenance Improvement Program Action Plan
3.3   Replacement of Timber Bridges for Federal Roads in Peninsular Malaysia
3.4   Replacement of Substandard Bridges for Federal Roads in Peninsular Malaysia
3.5   Highway Improvement Subprojects
3.6   Road Safety Improvement Program:  Improvement of Hazardous Locations
3.7   Road Safety Improvement Program:  Overhead Pedestrian Bridges
3.8   Road Safety Improvement Program Action Plan
3.9   Summary of Project Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
3.10 Cash Flow Requirements
3.11 Implementation Schedule
3.12 Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
4.1   Economic Analysis of Project Components
ANNEXES
1.    Truck Weight Control Program
2.    Road Safety Improvement Program
3.    Project Execution and Monitoring
4.    Documents Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1.    Organization of Public Works Department, Peninsular Malaysia
2.    Organization of JKR Roads Branch, Peninsular Malaysia
3.    Organization of Highway Planning Unit
M    Federal Highway Network, Peninsular Malaysia (IBRD 21488)



1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Geographic an_ Economic Setting
1.1       The Federation of Malaysia comprises 13 states in two separate
geographical areas of Southeast Asia. Eleven states on the Malay Peninsula
comprise West Malaysia (51,000 sq mi) while two states, Sabah and Sarawak,
comprise East Malaysia (77,000 sq mi) on the northeastern part of the island
of Borneo, some 400 mi to the east of West Malaysia across the South China
Sea. Malaysia has land borders with Thailand to the north on the peninsula
and with Indonesia to the south on Borneo. It is separated by a narrow sea
channel from Singapore at the southern tip of the peninsula (Map IBRD 21488).
1.2       Only about 20% of Malaysia's area is cultivated; the remainder is
covered by tropical forest. Peninsular Malaysia is generally mountainous,
with over two thirds of its area lying above elevation 300 m. The western
coastal area, bordering on one of the world's most important shipping routes,
the Straits of Malacca, is developing at a faster pace than the rest of the
country. Two thirds of the population live on or near the western coast and
work either in the main urban centers where industrial zones have developed
or in the important west coast agricultural and mining areas, which produce,
among other things, rubber, palm oil and tin for export. East Malaysia is
also mountainous, with a long coastline and numerous rivers.   Economic
activity in East Malaysia and the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia is
centered on the production of oil, gas, timber, cocoa and palm oil, as well
as fisheries.
1.3       Malaysia's  population  in  1988  totalled  some  16.9  million,
reflecting an average 2.6% annual increase from 1981. About 82% of the total
population lives in Peninsular Malaysia while Sabah and Sarawak acccunt for
only about 8% and 10%, respectively. Population density is about 120 persons
per sq km in Peninsular Malaysia compared to 12.5 in Sarawak and 17.4 in
Sabah. The geographical distribution of economic activity in Malaysia is
very uneven. About 84% of GDP in 1985 was generated by Peninsular Malaysia,
including nearly 37% by the central region, 23% by the north, 14% by the
eastern part of the peninsula and 10% by the south.   Sabah and Sarawak
accounted for only 7.6% and 8.0%, respectively.
1.4       During the past 15 years, Malaysia has experienced profound
economic changes.   The oil shocks of the early 1970s accelerated the
development of an indigenous petroleum industry which produced rapid economic
growth and substantially increased revenues. The relatively recent collapse
of oil prices coupled with declining terms of trade from its other exports
caused the country to suffer from a severe economic recession in 1985-86,
creating serious shortfalls in revenue and tight resource constraints. GDP
growth, which had climbed by an average 8% p.a. in the lat.e 1970s,
decelerated to 6% in 1980.84 then turned negative in 1985/86.   Although
growth resumed thereafter, with GDP rebounding by 8% in 1988, Malaysia's
public sector has lost the surplus revenue it formerly enjoyed and has
entered an era of fiscal conservatism.



- 2 -
B.   The Transport System
The Network and Its Development
1.5       Malaysia's rapid economic growth during the 1970s was accompanied
by a similarly rapid development of the transport sector. Largely fueled by
major government investments in the sector (Table 1.1), output of transport,
storago and communications increased at 12% annually, compared to 8% for the
economy overall. During the decade, the sector's share of CDP increased from
5% to 7%. The Government has attached great importance to the role of
transport in the economic development process, and under its four previous
development plans (1966-85) channeled over M$14.5 billion to the sector.
Under the ongoing Fifth Malaysia Plan (1986-90), allocations to transport
amount to 15% of the development budget, second only to agriculture. The
actual amount budgeted, however, has had to be reduced from M$10.7 billion,
as originally proposed, to N$6.5 billion, due to fiscal constraints. As a
result of this investment, the system is now relatively well developed for
a country of Malaysia's size and income level. The major exceptions to this
are the transport systems serving East Malaysia.
1.6       Malaysia's transport system now comprises some 42,300 km of roads,
1,643 route-km of railway, 18 airports (four of which are for international
traffic) and 37 airstrips, as well as 25 ports in West Malaysia and 30 ports
in East Malaysia. The past decade was a period of high traffic growth in
Malaysia and changing modal distribution, with. the railways losing
substantial traffic to road transport, which is now the dominant mode. In
1986, about 90% of total freight traffic and over 95% of passenger traffic
in Peninsular Malaysia went by road. Between 1979, when rail freight traffic
peaked at 4.2 million tons of freight, and 1985, overall rail freight traffic
declined by 30%. The decline in rail traffic has recently been checked,
however, by the greater emphasis being placed by the Malayan Railway on the
development of intermodal services. To meet the country's increasing demand
for international transport, which is served mainly by air for passengers and
by sea for freight, major increases in capacity in these modes took place
during the post-1975 period.   However, due to recent shifts in traffic
patterns among the modes, some existing facilities are now underutilized.
Government Objectives for the Sector
1.7         Government's  overall  objective  under  the  Fif::h  Malaysia
Development Plan (1986-90) is to promote domestic adjustmeat policies and
strategies to contain deficits and debt service obligations.  During the
first three years of the Plan period, this implied slow growth for the
economy. During the remaining period, despite resumed economic growth, the
Goverriment has taken a cautious approach to investment in view of the
vulnerability of the economy to fluctuations in commodity (particularly
petroleum) prices.   For the transport sector, the Government intends to
concentrate on: (a) developing an integrated approach to coordinate
development of the transport system; (b) completing ongoing programs and
projects; (c) improving operations and management of the transport system;
and (d) identifying and implementing programs for private sector financing



- 3 -
and management.   This seems reasonable in view of continued economic
uncertainty, which makes long-range planning of transport investments
difficult, and the expectation of continued scarcity in budgetary resources
over the next few years.
Institutional Framework
1.8       Responsibility for administration of the transport sector is
dispersed among a number of ministries and agencies at both the federal and
state levels. The Ministry of Transport (MOT) is responsible for all matters
concerning ports, railways and aviation, although the Malayan Railways, the
Malaysian Airline System and Malaysia's nine port authorities operate with
some autonomy. The Ministry of Works (MOW) handles the planning, design,
construction and maintenance of the federal road system, although the state
governments, which are responsible fcr about 70% of the country's road
network, independently plan, design and construct their own roads and are
also responsible for maintenance of their road networks. The Ministry of
Public Enterprises (MPE) through its Licensing Board is responsible for the
licensing of road transport operations; MOT through its Road Transport
Department is responsible for vehicle licensing, collection of road taxes and
enforcement of highway regulations; the Ministry of Primary Industry
regulates the sizes and weights of timber trucks, and NOW is responsible for
regulations affecting all other vehicles using putlic highways. The federal
police are responsible for enforcement of traffic and safety matters relating
to road transport. A number of semi-autonomous ports are also irvolved in
multimodal operations that require coordination with road and rail transport.
Under the present administrative arrangements, however, such coordination is
usually lacking.
1.9       The Economic Planning Unit (EPU) in the Prime Kinister's Office,
which is responsible for planning and funding all federal government
investments, also has the task of coordinating transport investments among
modes. However, as the transport sector has grown larger and more complex,
the EPU has not been able to keep up with the demands imposed upon it due to
a lack of sufficient numbers of suitably qualified specialists to review
technical design standards, evaluate engineering feasibilities, determine
cost-effectiveness and compare alternative technical solutions. As a result,
transport capacity is not spread evenly, with costly duplication in some
areas, and the investments made are not always oriented to least-cost
solutions. Review and coordination of non-federal public investments in
transport are similarly inadequate. The Bank has initiated a sector dialogue
with the Government to explore means of improving transport planning and
coordination, including intermodal linkages.
C. Bank Lendinf to the Transport Sector and Sector Strategy
1.10      Since 1971, when the Bark first became involved in Malaysia's
transport sector, it has financed nine transport projects with l.oans
totalling US$246.6 million, including five highway and urban transport
projects (US$182.7 million), three ports projects (US$45.8 million), and a
railway project (US$18.1 million).  Two projects are still ongoing: the



- 4 -
Sabah-Sarawak Road Project (Loan 2291-MA of 1983) and the Port Kelang Project
(Loans 2686/2687-MA of 1985).
1.11     The  five  road/urban  transport projects  were  all  implemented
successfully despite cost increases due to inflation and delays generally
resulting from slow land acquisition, difficulties in removing squatters and
poor performance by some of the contractors. The first three projects (Loan
851-MA of 1972 for US$16 million; Loan 931-MA of 1973 for US$19.5 million;
and Loan 1214-MA of 1976 for US$26 million, less US$4 million cancelled in
1982) financed the construction and/or improvement of several major highways
in the IZuala Lumpur area. The remaining two projects were focused on East
Malaysia, although one of them, the Third Highway Project (Loan 1376-MA of
1977 for US$35 million, less US$4.6 million cancelled in 1984), also
contained a pilot road maintenance and pavement strengthening program for
five states in Peninsular Malaysia, including the establishment of a separate
maintenance unit at JKR headquarters and separate road maintenance units for
federal roads within the state JKRs. While the initial results of separating
construction and maintenance responsibilities led to greater efficiency and
improved maintenance operations, in recent years the effectiveness of the
state units has declined, primarily due to shortages of qualified personnel.
A Bank Project Performance Audit Report on this project (PPAR No. 7303, June
22, 1988) found it to be successful, achieving its objectives of improving
the maintenance capability of the five project states and carrying out civil
works elsewhere satisfactorily. The ongoing Sabah-Sarawak Road Project (Loan
2291-MA of 1983 for US$86.2 million) is proceeding, on the whole,
satisfactorily,  despite  continuing  problems  with  slow  progress  of
contractors. Due to stiff competition among local contractors during the
recent economic recession, bids for project works were much lower than
expected, causing the Government in 1987 to request the cancellatien of US$15
million of the original loan amount.
1.12   Despite this involvement, the impact of Bank lending in the sector
has been limited, primarily because the assistance strategy in the past was
largely project-oriented and focused on the provision of transport
infrastructure rather than overall transport policy issues.  Furthermore,
during the 1980s, the Bank redirected its efforts to supporting investment
in East Malaysia's  relatively underdeveloped  transport  sector.    This
orientation is now changing. The Bank is currently engaged in a dialogue
with the Government which has identified the need to refocus Bank attention
from a somewhat narrow concentration on individual project lending towari
improving overall sector policies to achieve necessary improvements in
transport throughout the country. Much broader issues are being addressed
which affect major segments of the transport system by, among other things,
improving efficiency and thus increasing export competitiveness by lowering
the transport cost component of Malaysian exports. For transport, as for
other sectors of the economy, changing conditions both within Malaysia and
internationally require a more prudent approach than was necessary
heretofore, when surplus funds were available. In a more resource-scarce
enviromment, Government's efforts must be directed towards optimizing the
use of capital available and increasing the efficiency of transport
operations.



. 5 -
1.13      The revised sector strategy arose in response to the findings of
a National Transport Policy Review, which was carried out by the Bank in
coopesation with the Government in 1987-88.  The Review was initiated at
Government's request, out of concern that the massive levels of transport
investment in the previous decade had not yielded commensurate levels of
improved efficiency.   The aim was therefore  to identify areas where
efficiency gains could be made from existing investments. The Review
identified five general areas where Bank support could be beneficial: (a)
transport coordination and planning; (b) road maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading; (c) river transport in Sarawak; (d) port rationalization and
efficiency improvements; (e) and railway efficiency improvemunts. The
proposed project would address the first two of these needs as an initial
step in helping the Government improve transport efficiency.
2. THE HIGHWAY SU=SECT0r
A. The phttork
2.1       During 1981-85, the Government expanded the road network at the
rate of 8% per annum, more than doubling the length of gravel roads and
increasing the paved road network by 37%. Presently, Malaysia's overall road
network totals some 42,300 km, including 34,500 km of paved roads, 6,500 km
of gravel roads and 1,300 km of earth roads. About 70% of the roads are the
responsibility of the various states, about 22% are under the federal
government and the other 8% are municipal roads. The federal trunk network
in Peninsular Malaysia is now generally in place and consists of 10,531 km,
of which 9,150 km (87%) are paved (including about 335 km of toll expressway)
and about 1,385 km are gravel or earth. By comparison, in 1980 the federal
trunk network comprised 6,377 km: 5,269 km paved and 1,108 km gravel or earth
(Table 2.1). Almost half of the total network (20,500 km) is on the west
coast of the peninsula, concentrated in the most populous states (Table 2.2).
2.2       According to a recent inventory of the federal highway network in
Peninsular Malaysia, about 57% of the roads are in good condition, 20% are
fair and about 23% are in poor condition. The high proportion of fair and
poor roads points to a major neglect of periodic maintenance (para. 2.24).
In addition, weak and substandard bridges further diminish the usefulness
of many existing roads. Under the proposed project, the Government would be
assisted in improving the country's road system through an enhanced
maintenance program involving, among other things, the establishment of
improved maintenance planning and procedures.
B. ITaffic
2.3       Traffic levels in Malaysia reflect the country's varying levels of
economic activity and population density. Typical intercity roads carry
between 800 and 3,000 vehicles per day (vpd) while roads in and around Kuala
Lumpur carry loads as high as 100,000 vpd. Traffic growth rates range up to
20*, with an average of about 8% (see Tables 2.3 and 2.4).



2.4       At present,  there are almost four million motor vehicles in
Malaysia: 30% cars, 4% buses, 6% trucks and 60% motorcycles. Between 1965
and 1980, the number of motor vehicles in the country increased at a rate of
almost 15% per annum. Although the rate of growth slowed somewhat during
1981-85 to about 9% per annum (Table 2.5), it still resulted in the current
ratio of 240 vehicles per thousand persons, the highest such ratio in
Southeast Asia. Even if the high percentage of motorcycles is excitded from
the total, Malaysia's number of vehicles per thousand persons is relatively
high, at about 100 vehicles per thousand persons.
2.5       Current vehicle weight regulations in Malaysia allow a maximum
legal load for a single axle of 9 tons and for a tandem axle, 12 tons.
Enforcement of the limits is the responsibility of the police who, because
of understaffing and a lack of resources and equipment allocated for this
purpose, provide only sporadic coverage. As a result, overloading of trucks
is commonplace, causing accelerated pavement deterioration and, in a number
of cases, premature road failure. Recent surveys have shown that about 70%
of trucks checked were substantially overloaded, some weighing as much as
double the allowable weight. In order to identify measures to correct this
situation, which is causing the country's roads to deteriorate very rapidly,
the Government commissioned a comprehensive truck loading and pavement and
bridge capacity study, the Axle Load Study, which was carried out by
consultants.   The Study's conclusions and recommendations are now being
reviewed by the Government and, if accepted (as is likely), will lead to an
upward revision in allowable axle loads for truc.-s and revised regulations
relating to truck dimensions and configurations. Such revisions will, in
turn, require reconsideration and revision of pave.aent and bridge design
criteria and standards, which are now geared to the current (low) load
limits.  At  the  same  time,  the  currently  ineffective  monitoring  and
enforcement efforts of the Government should be restructured and improved so
that real control of truck weights can be established and the incidence of
overloading substantially reduced.   The proposed project would include
support for an increased truck weight control effort (para. 3.12).
2.6       With the continued extension of the highway network and growth in
traffic volumes and densities, the numbers and severity of traffic accidents
have been significant (Table 2.6). This situation is not acceptable to the
Government.  While many accidents result from driver error or lack of
compliance with traffic regulations, many are due to the existence of
substandard or dangerous roadside conditions. A comprehensive review and
examination of accident records carried out by MOW's Highway Planning Unit
(HPU), followed by detailed examination and analysis of identified sites by
HPU and by JKRs. Roads Branch has resulted in the identification of 267
hazardous locations on the federal road network where physical improvements
would reduce the frequency and severity of accidents. The Government has
already begun to make the needed improvements and these efforts would be
expanded under the proposed project, along with support for more rigorous
enforcement of traffic laws and speed limits, a public education and driver
traiuing campaign, and a stronger focus on accident prevention on the part
of the police and MOW (see para. 3.15).



- 7 -
C. Road Transport Industry
2.7       During 1982-86, Malaysia's truck fleet increased by an average of
16.5% p.a., with some 120,490 trucks registered in 1986. The fleet comprises
small vans (71%), 2-axle, 6-wheel rigid vehicles (21%) and 3-axle, 10-wheel
articulated vehicles (6%). The commercial road freight industry is tightly
restricted through a licensing, regulation and taxation system which has
served to suppress effective competition in commercial road transport and
neglect the needs of transport users. Although the freight rates set by
Government are high enough to allow competition, the restrictive licensing
and regulatory environment raises the cost of operations so that actual rates
charged are higher than would be the case in a more open market.
2.8       Bus transport is also highly regulated, with each bus licensed for
a defined area, route, frequency of service, etc.   Any change in these
parameters necessitates a new license, obtained only after a lengthy approval
process. Bus fares are also regulated and, by being determined on the basis
of distance, are identical for all bus sizes and services, thus favoring
large bus operators on high density routes and penalizing small operators on
less traveled routes.   This results in less responsiveness to transport
demand than would be the case with a lack of regulation.
2.9       The distortions caused by excessive economic regulation of motor
carriers in Malaysia were identified in the NTPR, and the Government is
currently examining alternatives to address this issue.
D. Highway Expenditures and Road User Charges
2.10      Highway expenditures in Malaysia have been falling continuously as
the Government's budgetary constraints have become more acute.  In 1982,
development and maintenance expenditures for federal roads in Peniusular
Malaysia totalled some M$357 million and M$72 million, respectively, while
in 1985 only M$242 million and M$97 million were available and in 1986 only
M$213 million and M$92 million were allocated (Table 1.1). Although the
allocation between development and maintenance expenditures was satisfactory
in 1985-86, this is due to the overall lack of funds and is not typical of
allocations in more expansionary periods.   During 1981-85, for example,
federal road investments totalled about M$1.4 billion while operations and
maintenance expenditures amounted to only M$0.31 billion. This relatively
low maintenance budget was provided during a period when the federal road
system grew by approximately 54%.
2.11      Funding for highway investments is derived from a number of public
sources, with the federal highway investment program financed through the
development budget, and maintenance funded through the recurrent budget.
Generally, the policy of the Government is to avoid borrowing for
expenditures financed under the recurrent budget.
2.12      The revenues earned from road user taxes are substantial and have
grown rapidly in recent years; during the past five years, revenues from road
user taxes have exceeded federal expenditures on roads by an average of 35%.



- 8 -
The National Transport Policy Review (para. 1.13) found that disparities
exist in cost recovery among the various transport modes and among various
types of road vehicles. For highway users, this disparity has led to truck
overloading by encouraging truckers to use vehicles with inappropriate
configurations for the loads carried. Consequently, there is concern that
heavy vehicles are not paying for the damage that they cause to the roads
while cars may be paying too much.   A study of this issue would be carried
out under the proposed project.
F. Highway Investments under the Fifth Malaysia Plan
2.13       The rapid expansion of the highway network,  fueled by large
investments made by the Government during the late 1970s and early 1980s has
largely ended, with the federal network generally in place and financial
constraints dictating a more prudent approach than was heretofore the case
when surplus funds were available. The majority of roads included in the
Fifth Malaysia Plan and which the Government still intends to construct in
Peninsular Malaysia between now and 1995 form parts of the North-South Toll
Expressway. About 636 km of new four-lane, high speed expressway are planned,
at an estimated cost of M$3.2 billion.  Another M$167.0 million is allocated
for major improvements to existing roads which are to be carried out by 1992.
In some cases, however, the Government, in keeping with its policy of
encouraging maximum privatization in all sectors, has decided to franchise
private sector consortiums to design, construct and operate sections of the
toll expressway system, thereby freeing the funds earmarked for those
developments for use elsewhere. Three such contractual arrangements have
already been concluded, thereby mobilizing substantial financial resources
from the private sector to aid in the further development of the country's
highway system.
F. Organization and Administration
Overall Organization
2.14      Responsibility for administration of roads and road transport is
shared by a number of agencies. The Ministry of Works (MOW) is responsible
for the planning, design, construction and maintenance of the federal highway
system and operates through its Highway Planning Unit (HPU) for highway
planning and related studies, and through its Department of Public Works
(JKR) for design, construction and maintenance of the road network.   The
Malaysian Highway Authority (LLM) is currently responsible for all activities
related to the toll expressways, although this responsibility is diminishing
with the gradual privatization of these facilities (para. 2.13). The state
governments independently plan and construct their own road works and are
responsible for maintenance of their state road networks.   In practice,
however, the state public works departments act as local extensions of the
federal JKR which carries out work for the states in addition to its
responsibilities for the federal road system.   State technical staff are
adequate in numbers but, again, are weak in planning and coordination. The
Ministry of Public Enterprises is responsible for the issuance of road
transport permits while the Ministry of Transport's Road Transport Department



- 9 -
issues vehicle and operators' licenses. MOW regulates the size and weight
of all vehicles using the public roads except timber-carrying trucks, which
are regulated by the Ministry of Primary Industries.
Department of Public Works
2.15      The federal JKR (Chart 1) is organized under a Director General who
has two deputies: one overseeing three major divisions--the Roads Branch, the
Design and Research Unit, and the Directorate of Water Supplies--as well as
seven other the activities of the Directorates of Buildings, Education Works,
Military Works, Medical and Health Works, and Home Affairs Works as well as
the special JKR units responsible for operations in the federal enclaves of
Kuala Lumpur and Labuan.   The directors of the 11 state JKR offices in
Peninsular Malaysia report directly to the Director General of the federal
JKR and, at the same time, to the various state governments. Each of these
state JKR directors supervises a number of district o;fices.
2.16      The Roads Branch of the federal JKR is headed by a Director, who
is assisted by two deputies (Chart 2). One deputy director is responsible
for the design and procurement related to all new road and bridge
construction, and the other deputy directs the supervision of construction
and maintenance as well as the reconstruction and improvement of existing
roads.  The federal JKR Roads Branch is responsible for the programming,
coordination and administration of all maintenance work on federal roads,
including rehabilitation and improvement, but carries out no physical works.
The 13 state JKRs have been delegated the latter responsibility, along with
maintaining  all  state  roads,  except  those  maintained  by  several
municipalities. Most routine maintenance operations are performed by the 67
state JKR districts while periodic maintenance is done under the direct
supervision of the state JKR headquarters. Large-scale periodic maintenance
and rehabilitation works are carried out by contract and supervised either
by the state JKR headquarters or by the federal JKR.
TLraining
2.17      JKR has established a large training and -esearch institute at
Bangi, near Kuala Lumpur. Among other things, research on pavement design
and construction, including periodic maintenance operations, overlays and
pavement strengthening is carried out with the help of two experts provided
through British bilateral aid. Training in maintenance operations (both road
maintenance and equipment maintenance) and in construction supervision
methods form a part of the Institute's curriculum with relevant staff from
all JKR units periodically being sent to the school to attend courses of
three days to six weeks duration, depending on the course material.   In
addition, courses are periodically held under the Institute's auspices at
various locations throughout Malaysia, in order to more easily reach a larger
proportion of JKR staff. A number of maintenance - oriented courses and
activities are pursued at the Institute. However certain deficiencies exist
in the standardization of course materials and overall planning concerning
goals. The proposed project would address these deficiencies through the
provision of technical assistance to the Institute to help in formulating and



- 10 -
establishing an expanded and improved road and bridge maintenance and
construction supervision training program (para. 3.30).
G. Planning
2.18      Highway planning has its beginnings with MOW's HPU, which is
responsible for identifying, analyzing and justifying all federal highway
projects, which are ranked based on traffic levels and an annually revised
analysis of road capacity (see Chart 3). The HPU also carries out highway
feasibility studies on the basis of economic and technical criteria and
performs overall and detailed planning studies for the federal highway
network. HPU submits its annual proposals to the EPU for its consideration.
However, due to EPU's lack of capability to adequately assess transport
supply and demand, and the resultant intermodal considerations, excess
capacity has been created in some areas while congestion and delays due to
an inadequate highway network have occurred elsewhere. The creation of a
strong central planning unit to guide and coordinate overall highway
subsector development, including state roads, is therefore recommended. The
HPU would be the logical entity to assume this role since it already fulfills
this capacity for the federal road system and has the expertise required for
such duties. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that HPU would be made responsible for coordination of federal and state
investments in highways and for coordination of these investments with other
transport investments planned by the Ministry of Transport. To assist HPU in
assuming this new mandate, technical assistance would be provided to HPU
under the proposed project.
H. Highway Design and Construction
2.19      Design and supervision of construction for national highways and
bridges are carried out by JKR, either directly or by employing consultants.
The design criteria and standards used are generally sound and adequate for
conditions in Malaysia, although highway designs have been based on low axle
load parameters, resulting in underdesigned roads which are not adequate for
the actual loads carried.  JKR is in the process of revising its design
criteria to take heavier axle loads into account. Design standards for major
roads in rural areas and for urban and rural roads in general are shown in
Tables 2.7 to 2.9. JKR staff have the requisite competence and experience
to carry out routine highway and bridge design work, but generally lack the
capacity to undertake more complicated projects. Using manual methods, JKR
carries out a substantial amount of road design and drafting for the smaller
contracts. Due to increased road construction in recent years, the local
consulting engineering industry has grown rapidly, and a number of competent
local firms now exist and are active in the subsector. For most major design
assignments, JKR normally retains local consulting firms, sometimes in joint
venture with foreign companies to supplement its own staff capabilities.
2.20      All major new road construction and reconstruction/improvement work
in Malaysia is carried out by contractors under the direction of JKR's
federal Roads Branch.   Smaller works are usually executed by contractors
under the direction of the state JKRs, either directly or through the JKR



- 11 -
district offices. Minor construction, reconstruction or improvement works
are normally carried out by the JKR district offices through force account,
using their own personnel resources but sometimes contracting out
transportation of materials.   Most paving for periodic maintenance is
performed by the state JKRs which maintain asphalt mixing plants and related
paving equipment for the purpose (Table 2.10). The local road construction
industry has grown rapidly, and many large and small contractors now compete
in the sector.   Unfortunately, not all of the newer companies have the
requisite experience, competence or financial resources to properly perform
the works for which they apply.
2.21      JKR's ability to supervise contractors is currently limited by an
administrative arrangement whereby It is not able to control the assignments
of its technical staff.   This has led to acceptance of inadequate work,
costoverruns and the rapid deterioration of completed works that were not
performed properly. Poor construction supervision has therefore increased
both the amount and degree of maintenance requirements. Under the existing
personnel assignment system, JKR's professional personnel (such as resident
engineers) are under JKR's administrative control for assignment,
mobilization or allocation; however, all support or subprofessional staff
(such as technical assistants and technicians) are under the administrative
control of MOW for assignment or allocation.   Due to this arrangement,
construction supervision teams are not always formed in a timely manner and
may lack adequate numbers of qualified personnel. To improve the quality of
construction supervision, responsibility and authority for assignment of all
staff for construction supervision te.ms should be rationalized and placed
under a single unit, preferably JKR, which has adequate information about the
requirements of particular projects being staffed. Further, to enhance staff
competence in construction supervision, intensified training is needed.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that by June 30,
1990 JKR would be given total authority over the assignments of its personnel
at all levels. Technical assistance and training in this area would also be
provided under the project. While JKR is upgrading its capabilities, greater
use should be made of consultants for construction supervision.
I. Maintenance
2.22      The Maintenance Unit of JKR's Roads Branch is responsible for
planning, budgeting, administering and coordinating the maintenance of the
federal highway system, including bridges. Actual physical works are carried
out by the state and district JKR offices, either through force account or
contracting.
Roads
2.23        As indicated by the unsatisfactory condition of the highway
network (para. 2.2), JKR has not been able to keep up with the expanding road
maintenance needs. Between 1985 and 1988, as a result of the Government's
financial constraints, budgetary allocations for maintenance in current terms
fell by 18%, and although the allocation for 1989 is close to the 1986 level,
in real terms there has been a steady erosion of available resources for



- 12 -
maintenance activities.  Since anticipated allocations for 1991-94 (Table
2.11) indicate only modest increaves in current terms over the present
levels, further deterioration in the condition of the network should be
expected. If the current situation is to be reversed, budgetary allocations
for routine maintenance should be increased to about M$4,500 to M$5,0Q0 per
km, or 10-20% above present levels. Allocations for periodic maintenance
should be increased by about 15% in real terms over present levels, resulting
in allocations of about M$llO to M$120 million p.a. over the next four years,
an increase of about 22% over presently anticipated levels.   Under the
proposed project, the Government and the Bank would annually exchange views
on the budgetary allocations for road maintenance for each subsequent year.
2.24      Due to funding limitations, the system's increase in urgently-
needed periodic maintenance requirements, which have been accompanied by
expansion of the network, rapid traffic increases and significant truck
overloading, have not received the attention needed. JKR has instead used
available funds mainly for routine maintenance in an effort to keep the
majority of heavily-travelled roads in reasonably good condition until
improved economic conditions and increased budgetary allocations would allow
the resumption of the more expensive periodic works, i.e., resurfacing.
However, with continued budgetary constraints, the backlog of deferred
periodic maintenance has continued to accumulate and now totals about 2,000
km or about 20% of the network. The lack of periodic maintenance and, to
some extent, inadequate initial designs, have caused some sections of the
federal road network in Peninsular Malaysia to deteriorate to such an extent
that normal periodic maintenance will not suffice to return them to the
condition required to support present and anticipated traffic levels. Major
rehabilitation and strengthening are now required. If these roads are not
soon dealt with, total reconstruction at an exceedingly high cost will be
needed. The situation in Sabah and Sarawak, where there are fewer paved
roads and truck overloading is much worse, is even more critical than that
in Peninsular Malaysia, and many of the roads there become impassable during
the rainy season. Countrywide, the implications of the lack of maintenance
are significant in view of the importance of the road network in Malaysia's
total transport system and the substantial economic losses being incurred by
the country due to the poor condition of its dominant transport mode.
2.25      A  Highway  Maintenance  Improvement  Program,  including  road
rehabilitation, improved staffing and administrative arrangements, and the
establishment of highway and bridge management systems, would be launched
under the -roposed project to begin to address this situation. To eliminate
the backlog of periodic maineanance, the Government should resurface about
1,400 km of the 2,000 km backlog during the next five years and thereafter
resurface the remaining 600 km. Overall, this is expected to require an
additional M$200 million (US$70 million equivalent), at 1989 prices, above
the  amount  required  for  normal  recurrent  maintenance.    With  this
accomplished, resurfacing for periodic maintenance can be continued on a
current basis at a rate of about 500 km a year.
2.26      In addition to the basic shortage of funds, maintenance operations
in Malaysia have also suffered from a significant shortage of qualified



- 13 -
staff. The current distribution of maintenance personnel by state is shown
in Table 2.12, and unmet staffing needs throughout JKR's Roads Branch are
shown in Table 2.13. Staffing shortfalls have both limited the amount of
maintenance that JKR can carry out itself and constrained its effectiveness
in supervising maintenance works carried out by contractors. In 1977, the
Government accepted the recommendations of a Highway Maintenance Study
(financed by the Bank under Loan 851-MA) to establish separate maintenance
units in the federal and state JKRs in order to properly maintain the federal
road network. The Government attempted to recruit and staff these units but
was able to find sufficient staff only for the federal headquarters unit
which is now operating satisfactorily. Although two state maintenance units
were established, they ceased to function as personnel were reassigned to
what were considered to be more urgent activities.   At present,  the
maintenance function in the state and district offices is combined with
construction, with the limited number of qualified staff available assigned
largely to construction works. Maintenance operations have suffered as a
consequence.
2.27      Staffing problems have also resulted in inadequate supervision of
maintenance works carried out under contract. With periodic (resurfacing)
maintenance requirements growing beyond the capacity of the state JKRs, JKR
has contracted out an increasing amount of this work to contractors, under
the supervision of the state and/or district offices. For similar reasons,
it has begun very recently to contract out some routine maintenance, under
the supervision of its district offices. Although it is too early to make
final judgments on the cost-effectiveness of this type of contract
maintenance, it is clear that such methods are more efficient than force
account systems and produce better quality work, provided that proper
supervision of the contractor  is carried out.    Close  supervision of
contractor maintenance, particularly of recurrent maintenance, is required
since all work is authorized in advance and payment is made on the basis of
unit prices that are bid for specified work items utilizing bills of
quantities. Generally, however, due to the scarcity of resources available
and the lack of qualified personnel, supervision of contractors by JKR has
not been satisfactory, leading to substantial cost increases in many
contracts and to unsatisfactory performance and/or results in a large number
of cases. This is also true of construction supervision carried out by JKR
(para. 2.21). However, when consultants are used to supervise construction
on behalf of the implementing agency, results have been, on the whole, much
more satisfactory.   JKR's capability to supervise contractor maintenance
along with its proficiency in maintenance programming and operations is
expected to improve as a result of technical assistance and training to be
provided under the proposed project.



- 14 -
Bridg2s
2.28      About 2,140 bridges are located on Malaysia's heavily travelled
primary road network (Table 2.14). In conjunction with the Axle Load Study,
about half of these bridges were inspected, and it was found that about 5%
of the bridges were not in sufficiently good condition to carry the presently
allowable truck axle loads (9 tons per single axle) without danger of
collapse, about 3% would not be able to carry the short-term load limits (11
tons per single axle) recommended under the Axle Load Study, 52% would not
be able to carry the medium term allowable axle load of 12 tons per single
axle recommended in the Study, while the remaining 40% would need
strengthening if the overall laden weight allowable were increased to the
levels recommended in the Study.   Many of the country's bridges will
therefore require immediate strengthening or replacement, and, since it is
likely that higher allowable load limits will gradually be introduced,
continued strengthening, replacement or loading control (posting) will be
required in the future. The proposed project would therefore finance the
replacement of substandard bridges and the establishment of a Bridge
Management System for regular inspection, maintenance and repair of the
bridge network (para. 3.11).
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation
3.1       Following preliminary  discussions between  the Government  of
Malaysia and the Bank about a possible highway project, JKR submitted a
project proposal to EPU in late-1985, outlining the main components of a road
improvement and maintenance project which was consistent with the thrust of
the Fifth Malaysia Development Plan.   The JKR proceeded with further
preparation of the project, but a Bank mission which visited Malaysia in
late-1986 found that the project would have to be postponed due to the
serious resource constraints that had developed. After a hiatus of almost two
years, the Government informed the Bank that it wished to reactivate the
original proposal and proceed with the proposed project. The Government's
renewed interest in the project comes from its realization that its capital
stock of road infrastructure has begun to deteriorate due to neglect and that
it must now piace the highest priority on rehabilitation and maintenance of
its roads and bridges.   The Bank welcomed this development and sent a
preparation mission in October 1988 and a preappraisal mission in January
1989. Appraisal took place in April/May 1989.
B. Proiect Obiectives
3.2       The proposed project would assist the Government to achieve its
goals for the highway sector as articulated in the Fifth Malaysia Development
Plan, that is, the preservation and improvement of the existing federal
highway network so that it can safely and adequately cater to rapidly
increasing traffic demand. To this end, the project has been designed to (a)
improve road maintenance capabilities and operations on the federal road



- 15 -
network and in the process improve maintenance planning, programming and
management to enhance the cost-effectiveness and timeliness of maintenance
operations; (b) improve the coordination of highway planning at the state and
federal levels; (c) improve the existing network of national highways and
bridges; (4) reduce future damage to the roads through an enhanced truck
weight control program; and (e) improve road safety.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.3       With the federal road network largely in place and emphasis now
being given to improving and preserving the existing system, the Bank can
assist the Government in formulating policies and taking actions which would
improve efficiency, lower road transport costs and preserve the capital stock
of road investments while rationalizing institutional responsibilities in the
highway subsector.   To this end, the focus of Bank activities under the
project would be two-fold: assisting in improving highway maintenance
planning, operations and monitoring; and helping to improve overall highway
planning and coordination by the various subsector agencies. The proposed
project is significant in marking the renewal of Bank operations in the most
economically-important area of the country and in supporting an activity,
road maintenance, which, due to the dominance of highways in Malaysia's total
transport network, can have very significant economic benefits throughout the
project area.
D. Project Description
3.4         The project would be focussed on the federal highway network in
Peninsular Malaysia and would include the following components, which are
described in more detail below:
(a)   implementation of a Maintenance Improvement Program, including the
rehabilitation and strengthening of some 562 km of road pavements
and improvement of maintenance operations;
(b)   replacement of 43 bridges on primary roads and 24 timber bridges
on secondary roads of the federal highway system;
(c)   construction of 35 weigh stations under a Truck Weight Control
Program;
(d)   improvement of two trunk highway sections totalling about 56 km;
(e)   improvement of 42 hazardous road sections and construction of 27
pedestrian bridges in conjunction with a Road Safety Improvement
Program;
(f)   provision of computer hardware and software to improve JKR's
Computer-Aided Design and Drafting (CADD) capability;
(g)   consulting services for design and construction supervision of
project components (a), (b) and (d) above;



- 16 -
(h)   technical assistance to (i) strengthen HPU's capacity to plan and
coordinate road investments; (ii) strengthen JKR's capabilities in
supervising civil works contracts for both construction and
maintenance,  disseminating  a  Pavement  Management  System,
establishing a Bridge Management System and improving JKR's
maintenance training program; (iii) improve road safety monitoring
and analysis; (iv) establish methodologies for determining the
environmental impact of road works; and (v) improve JKR's CADD
capabilities in the highway sector; and
(i)   staff  training  in  maintenance  programming  and  operations,
computerized design and drafting, transport planning, and traffic
engineering and road safety analysis.
The locations of federal roads to be improved under the project are shown in
Map IBRD 21488.
Maintenence Imnrovement Program
3.5       The Government recognizes the high economic cost of poor roads and
intends to carry out a major road and bridge maintenance improvement program
comprising: (a) road rehabilitation and strengthening; (b) improved highway
maintenance operations; (c) expanded use of a recently-introduced Pavement
Management System; and (d) the introduction of a Bridge Management System.
3.6       In the Fifth Malaysia Plan, the Government has identified eight
sections of the federal road network in Peninsular Malaysia needing
rehabilitation and/or pavement strengthening before they can be maintained
through normal maintenance operations. These road sections, totalling about
562 km in length and located in the states of Kedah, Penang, Johor, Perak and
Pahang, would be rehabilitated and strengthened under the project.  Land
acquisition for this work has been completed. Table 3.1 provides details of
the project roads.
3.7       Technical assistance would be provided under the project for
implementation of a computerized Pavement Management System, which Is
expected to provide prioritized maintenance programs and budgets for use
throughout the country (para. 3.24). Consultant assistance would also be
provided to establish a Bridge Management System which will permit rational
and cost-effective programming of bridge maintenance, repair and loading
control (para. 3.25).
3.8       Most  important,  Government  intends  to  improve  its  current
maintenance operations under the project through increased funding and
training, redeployment of technical staff, and increased use of consultants
and  technical  assistance  for  a variety  of  activities.    Maintenance
expenditures should be increased from the levels originally budgeted for
1990-94 to the levels indicated in Table 2.11 with funding increasing from
M$92.0 million to M$125 million in 1990 and M$155.0 million in 1992 to cover
the cost of needed pavement resurfacing in order to reduce the backlog of
deferred periodic maintenance while, at the same time, carrying out needed



- 17 -
normal resurfacing work. In view of its very limited number of qualified
maintenanece personnel, equipment shortages, and the greater cost-
effectiveness of contractor maintenance, JKR intends to expand contract
maintenance operations, both for routine and periodic maintenance, and
gradually reduce its force account operations to a level where only emergerncy
and minor works are performed in-house. For contractor supervision, it is
in the process of increasing its supervisory staff and funds have been
included under the project for technical assistance to improve training in
construction supervision. However, since the effects of these efforts will
not be apparent for some time, JI^R will continue to use consultants for this
purpose when necessary. For overall supervision of maintenance works as well
as maintenance surveys, planning and monitoring, it will permanently assign
one qualified engineer to each district office in Peninsular Malaysia who
will have the sole responsibility of overseeing all maintenance operations
in that district, both force account and contracted. District maintenance
units will be provided with the appropriate resources needed, in terms of
equipment,  vehicles,  supplies  and  personnel  to  carry  out  their
responsibilities. They will not be involved in construction or improvement
work.
3.9       During negotiations, agreement was reached between the Government
and the Bank on: (a) an Action Plan for implementation of the Maintenance
Improvement Program (Table 3.2) during 1990-94; (b) annual consultations on
the scope and composition of the federal road maintenance program for the
coming year, and on procedures and methodologies to be appliud in its
preparation; (c) annual exchange of views between the Government and the Bank
concerning the proposed budgetary allocations for maintenance for the coming
year, including a comparison of total highway investments proposed and
maintenance  allocations,  to  ensure  an  appropriate  balance  between
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance; and (d) a reduction by at least
70% by December 31, 1994 of the existing backlog of deferred periodic
maintenance of roads.
Bridge Replacement
3.10      Despite continuing efforts over the years to replace aged and
inadequate timber bridges throughout the country, there still remain about
24 such bridges on secondary roads in the federal network. Replacement of
these small timber bridges with concrete bridge structures or box culverts
would therefore be included under the project. Designs for the bridges have
been completed, and details are given in Table 3.3.
3.11      The Axle Load Study identified 92 bridges on primary roads of the
federal highway system which are in critical condition, requiring replacement
on a priority basis. JKR has already replaced 22 of these bridges which were
in danger of imminent collapse and is in the process of replacing another 27
which are considered dangerous to the travelling public. The remaining 43
substandard bridges would be replaced under the project (details are shown
in Table 3.4). Bridge replacement under the project would complement the
establishment of a Bridge Management System with the help of project-financed
technical assistance (para. 3.25).



- 18 -
Truck Weight Control Program
3.12        The increased incidence of truck overloading in Malaysia has been
a major cause of premature failure of the country's paved roads. The Axle
Load Study, which was commissioned in response to this problem, has
recommended increased monitoring and control of truck load levels through,
among other things, the construction of 43 weigh stations throughout
Malaysia. The proposed project would therefore provide for the construction
and equipping of the 35 weigh stations needed in Peninsular Malaysia; the 8
stations needed in East Malaysia would be constructed under the ensuing
Development Plan. During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government
on an Action Plan for Control of Truck Weights containing a time-bound
schedule for implementation of weigh station construction and of the
activities necessary to provide adequate and effective enforcement of truck
weight regulations, including the provision of adequate personnel and
resources. The Action Plan and details of the program are described in Annex
1.
Highway Imgrovements
3.13      The Government has identified two road projects included in the
Fifth Malaysia Plan which are particularly in need of improvement in view of
rapidly increasing traffic densities: the Kuantan-Gambang Road in Pahang
state (19.5 km) and the Johor Bharu-Kota Tinggi Road in Johor state (36 km).
The project would therefore improve substandard geometrics, increase capacity
and improve inadequate drainage as well as upgrade understrength pavements
and structures on the two road sections. Designs for both subprojects have
been completed and land acquisition procedures are underway (details of the
highway improvements are shown in Table 3.5).
Road Safety Program
3.14      JKR has identified 267 locations on the federal road network where
physical improvements would reduce the frequency and severity of accidents.
JKR's state and district offices are currently making needed improvements of
a minor nature like improved road signing, while the project would finance
the substantial physical improvements required in 42 of the highest priority
sites. Land acquisition procedures are well underway. Details are shown in
Table 3.6. Designs for the improvement of 22 of these hazardous locations
have been completed, with completion of the balance expected by June, 1990.
In addition, since close to 20% of road accident fatalities involve
pedestrians in heavily travelled built-up areas, 27 other hazardous locations
have been identified where accidents involving pedestrians have frequently
occurred. Overhead pedestrian bridges would be constructed at these locations
under the project to permit safe passage across the flow of traffic (Table
3.7).
3.15      The physical improvements to be carried out under the project would
be complemented by the provision of technical assistance (para. 3.26) to help
introduce an accident monitoring system and the Government's implementation



- 19 -
of a Road Safety Improvement Program to more rigorously enforce its speed and
othter traffic regulations, provide sufficient police presence, and intensify
its educational, driver training and public relations campaigns to increase
the care that drivers exercise on the roads and their adherence to safety-
increasing driving habits. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the Government on an Action Plan for Road Safety Improvement delineating the
time-bound activities to be undertaken to carry out the physical improvements
needed as well as strengthening training and education efforts and providing
a stronger focus on accident prevention by the police and JKR. The Action
Plan is shown in Table 3.8 and details of the program are described in Annex
2.
Computer-Aided Design and Drafting (CADD)
3.16      While JKR's Roads Branch carries out a substantial amount of road
design, drafting and tender document preparation, it does so, in the main,
using relatively antiquated methods.   Despite the Roads Branch's small
existing computer installation, its design and drafting efforts are labor-
intensive and time consuming and it is severely limited in the amount of such
work it can undertake during a given time period. With the development of
CADD computer systems in recent years, it is surprising that Malaysia remains
one of the very few countries not taking full advantage of present-day
technology in the civil engineering field. To remedy this situation, and to
increase productivity along with the quality of work produced, the project
will include the provision of improved computer hardware and software along
with related technical assistance (para. 3.27) to establish a full-fledged
CADD system for the Roads Branch, incorporating the existing workstations and
personal computers into the system.
Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
3.17      Strengthening_of EPU.  The Government has decided to provide HPU
with an enlarged mandate to coordinate all road invest-Aents proposed by the
various federal and state agencies involved in the subsector and to liaise
with HOT in overall transport planning. To assist HPU in these functions,
the project would finance the services of a transport planning expert for HPU
for a period of three years.   As a first task, the advisor would assist HPU
and MOT to review cost recovery among the various transport modes in general
and the distribution among road vehicles in particular to determine
appropriate levels of road-user charges. The review would be carried out
jointly by HPU and MOT for a period of six months.
3.18      Construction Supervision.       Owing to a lack of sufficient
personnel, both of professional and of technician level, JKR has found it
difficult to satisfactorily supervise all of the work carried out on its
behalf by   contractors.   While works being supervised by consulting
engineering firms are generally being completed in a satisfactory manner and
are of acceptable quality, the level of staffing for construction supervision
on projects being supervised directly by JKR staff varies from quite
acceptable to entirely unsatisfactory.   Generally, adequate supervision,
either through use of consultants or by specially mobilized JKR teams is



- 20 -
provided for major high cost or high visibility projects. Projects, however,
that are smaller, are spread out spatially or are located in less accessible
areas receive only sporadic attention, handled by part-time or ad-hoc
supervision forces.  The result has been that the quality of construction
works suffers in direct proportion to the lack of adequate qualified staff
who are actually physically present during the time that works are executed.
This situation can be expected to result In unnecessary increases, through
claims and extra work, in costs of construction, in acceptance of inadequate
and substandard work of less than acceptable durability and the need in
certain cases to carry out major rehabilitative work long before it should
be necessary.
3.19      In order to improve the quality of construction supervision work,
JKR will increase its use of consulting engineering firms to undertake
construction supervision in order to complement its own in-house resources.
In addition, where JKR will supervise   construction work or contract
maintenance work using its own personnel, arrangements will be made to
permanently assign, on a full-time basis, sufficient   professional and
technician level personnel to adequately supervise the affected works so
that the present unsatisfactory level of quality and cost efficiency will
be improved.
3.20      The present JKR personnel assignment system divides control and
authority relating to personnel matters within JKR in such a way that
professional level personnel (such as Resident Engineers) are under the
administrative control of JKR for assignment, mobilization or allocation and
all support level or sub-professional level personnel (such as Technical
Assistants and Technicians) are under the administrative control of the
Ministry lnvel personnel office for assignment or allocation. This strange
arrangement results in inefficiencies and all sorts of difficulties whereby
construction supervision teams are not formed in a timely manner, do not have
adequate personnel or are formed with unqualified staff.  The Government
needs to rationalize its arrangements for the assignment of all staff for
construction supervision teams by placing responsibility and authority for
such matters in the hands of a single unit, preferably JKR, which has
adequate information concerning the requirements of the particular project
being staffed.
3.21      In addition,  in order to raise the level of competence in
supervision of construction, JKR will extend and intensify its training
efforts by means of on-site training, through use of its facilities at the
Bangi training center, the personnel available at the Bangi research center
(both expatriate and local), and the two expatriate experts being financed
under Loan 2642-MA, presently on-going. In this latter connection, JKR will
extend the contracts of these two experts, whose initial assignments are
completed, for an additional two-year period or will obtain the services of
two other experts to continue the work. The importaace of completing the
training effort, which has barely begun, cannot be over-emphasized. At the
same time, the difficulties encountered by the two experts during their
initial assignment which are related to the Government's inability to provide
counterpart personnel, as had been agreed, should be avoided. JKR should



- 21 -
provide at least one qualified road engineer to work full-time with the
experts who could help to overcome the language barrier and be in a position
to continue monitoring and training efforts after their assignment is
completed.
3.22      In addition, the experts would also assist JKR to: (a) review and
improve its maintenance standards and practices; (b) produce and distribute
relevant manuals; and (c) establish a quality control system for monitoring
field activities. In this latter connection, the formation of a permanent
Maintenance and Construction Supervision Monitoring Unit at JKR headquarters
which would among other things take over the functions now being performed
by the two experts when their assignment is completed would provide a much
needed standard-setting and control center to monitor field activities and
promote quality and efficiency in construction works and maintenance.
3.23      The project would also finance consulting services for design
and/or construction supervision of the physical components of the project,
including revision and updating of plans and contract documents completed
earlier.
3.24       Pavement Manaeemeat System.    JKR has  recently  installed a
computerized Pavement Management System, which is expected to provide
prioritized maintenance programs and budgets for use throughout Malaysia.
A special unit has been formed within the Maintenance and Reconstruction Unit
of the Roads Branch of JKR to administer and operate this system. With this
system, planning and programming of maintenance of road pavements would be
improved by integrating field data from observations and physical tests with
technical, economic and financial criteria. Since the transition from
introduction of the Pavement Management System to adequate, widespread use
of the system has not yet been completed, technical assistance financed under
the project, will be obtained for at least two years to assist in making the
system fully operational anJ to help in its wider dissemination among the
state JKR offices.
3.25      Bridge Mana8mn Stem. JKR intends to establish a comprehensive
Bridge Management System to permit the rational and cost-effective
programming of bridge maintenance, repair and loading control. Two years of
consultant assistance for the design and introduction of this system as well
as the provision of a computerized Bridge Management System, including
hardware and software, will be financed under the project. A permanent
organizational unit within JKR, suitably staffed, will be formed to operate
the system so that Malaysia's stock of federal bridges and culverts can be
regularly inspected and appropriate repair and maintenance interventions
satisfactorily programmed and executed.
3.26      Road Safety.  Under the project, HPU would set up and operate a
computerized national road accident data bank and establish a permanent
monitoring and analysis unit to identify means of continuously improving road
safety conditions and to collect, record, maintain and analyze meaningful
data. To assist HPU in this activity, the project will finance the services
of an expert in road safety data acquisition, manipulation and analysis for



- 22 -
24 months. The Covernmont will also arrange for HPU staff to attend courses
in traffic engineering and road safety design.
3.27      CADD Sytem.  In order to properly plan and implement a suitable
CADD system for JKR's Roads Branch which will satisfy long-term needs while
integrating existing equipment and software into the systeim, the project will
finance the services of an expert in CADD systems for a period of six months
to assist JKR in studying its needs, choosing and obtaining suitable hardware
and software and establishing and implementing a complete CADI) system for
highways and bridges.
3.28      Environmental Im=act Studies.  JKR, in cooperation with the
Department of the Environment, is in the process of establishing procedures
for conducting environmental impact studies relating to road construction and
maintenance works. Under the project, JER would engage an expert in this
field for three months to provide advice and assistance in determining
procedures and methodologies for field investigations and analyses to
determine the environmental effects of road construction and maintenance.
3.29      A summary of project consulting services and technical assistance
is shown in Table 3.9.  An estimated 2,954 person-months of consulting
services would be provided under the project at a total cost of US$13.1
million, including 204 person-months of expatriate assistance and about 2,750
person-months of local assistance.   During negotiations, agreement was
reached on the scope and timing of technical assistance and consulting
services to be provided under the project, including terms of reference (see
Project File) and estimated costs.
Training
3.30      To improve JKR's capabilities in maintenance programming and
operations, in construction supervision and in other facets of highway and
bridge management and operations, financing would be provided under the
project for fellowships, study tours or other training costs to be identified
in the course of project implementation. The project would also finance the
services of a training expert for a period of 24 months to assist the JKR
Training Institute at Bangi in improving and extending its maintenance
training program. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the general
scope and composition of the maintenance training program to be implemented
during the project period.
Status of Project Preparation
3.31       The road sections to be rehabilitated and strengthened under the
Maintenance Improvement Program have been identified and designs for two of
the eight sections are being prepared by JKR; designs for the remaining
sections will be prepared by consultants.   For the bridge replacement
program, design for the 24 timber bridges have been completed by JKR and
tendering will take place during the latter half of 1989.  Of the 43
substandard bridges to be replaced under the project, designs for 12 have
been completed by JKR, another 6 bridges will be designed in-house by end-



- 23 -
1989 and the remainder will be designed by consultants over the next two
years. Tendering of the bridges already designed will begin in the fall of
1989. Of the 35 weighstations to be constructed under the project, 10 have
been designed by JKR, five of which are already under construction and five
will be tendered in late 1989. Designs for another 10 weighstations are now
being prepared by JKR.   Designs for the two highway improvement subprojects
have been completed by consultants who are now reviewing and completing the
tender documentation. Tenders for these works are planned for early 1990.
Designs and tender documentation for 22 of the 42 hazardous locations to be
improved under the project have been completed by JKR, which expects to
complete designs for the balance by June 1990. Tendering will take place
during the 1989 to 1991 period. Consultants have been engaged for design and
construction supervision of the highway improvement subprojects and for
technical assistance for training in construction supervision methods, for
further implementation of the pavement management system and for improved
road safety analysis. Identification and appointment of the other technical
assistance experts and consulting engineering firms to be engaged under the
project will take place during late 1989 and 1990.   The Government,
recognizing that land acquisition has posed problems in the implementation
of past road projects, has taken measures to accelerate the process of land
acquisition by the states under the project including freezing of most of the
necessary rights-of-way.
E. Project Cost and Financing
3.32      The project cost is estimated at about X$644.7 million or US$239.2
million equivalent, including a foreign exchange requirement of US$108.9
million (45% of the total cost) and land acquisition costs estimated at
US$9.9 million equivalent. Taxes and duties equivalent to US$27.5 million
are not included. Cost estimates are based on prices as of June 1989 and
include a 10% physical contingency. Price contingencies equal to 15% of
base costs plus physical contingencies, have been estimatod based on the
following rates of inflation:  for local costs, 2.8% for 1989-90 and 3.5%
thereafter; and for foreign costs, 5.3% for 1989-90 and 4.1% thereafter. Cost
estimates are summarized (Table 1) below and cash flow requirements are shown
by year in Table 3.10.
3.33      Cost estimates for highway improvement subprojects are based on
detailed engineering prepared by consultants and have been checked by JKR
against costs of similar works being carried out.  Compared with ongoing
similar projects, the average costs per km of about US$1.5 million for a
four-lane divided highway and US$500,000 for a major two-lane trunk highway
are considered to be reasonable and realistic. Cost estimates for pedestrian
and timber bridges are based on detailed engineering prepared by JKR bs ied
on standard designs previously constructed throughout the country, using
average unit prices of similar completed and ongoing works. Cost estimates
for the first year of bridge rehabilitation and replacement are based on
detailed engineering, using standard designs and average unit prices of
similar bridges already constructed. Overall, the average cost of US$1,250
per square meter of bridge deck is considered to be reasonable and realistic
for new vehicular bridges. The average cost estimate of US$115,000 per km



- 24 -
for road rehabilitation and strengthening is based on current unit rates and
is considered reasonable and realistic. Similarly, cost estimates for the
road safety improvement program are based on detailed engineering performed
by JKR using unit rates averaged from current similar works. The costs of
consultant services are based on present rates for international consultants
currently engaged in similar work.
TABLE 1: PROJECT COST SUMKARY
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .......... ............ .. .. .. .. .
Project camponent                            Local   Foreign   Total    tocal   Foreign   Total    Foreign    X of
-------(NS Millions).         .- USS Million)----   Cost X         Total
Cost
......................................... ................................................................................. _. ................................
1.       Civil Works                                 263.75   178.45   442.21    97.85    66.21   164.06         40.4X    68.6x
A. maintenance Irprovelunt Program             115.70   62.30   178.00   42.92    23.11    66.04          35.01    27.61
B. Replacement of Timber and
Substandard Bridges                          20.88    25.52    46.40     7.75     9.47    17.21        55.0o     7.2S
- Timber Bridges                             8.77    10.73    19.50      3.26     3.98     7.23        55.01     3.01
- Substandard Bridges                        12.11    14.80    26.90     4.49     5.49     9.98        55.0o     4.2X
C. Truck Weight Control Program                 15.48    10.32    25.80     5.74    3.83      9.sr        40.01     4.01
0. Highway lqprovemnts                          72.11    59.00   131.11    26.75    21.89    48.64        45.01    20.31
- Johore Bharu- Kota Tinggi Road             27.06   22.14   49.20    10.04       8.21    18.25        45.01    7.61
- Kuantan - Gamtan  Road                    45.05    36.86   81.91    16.71    13.67   30.39           45.01   12.71
E. Road Safety lprovement Program              39.59    21.32    60.90    14.69    7.91    22.59         35.01    9.4x
11.      Equipmn t                                     0.00    16.60    16.60      0.00     6.16     6.16       100.01     2.61
...........                                    ..... . ......   . .....  ..... . ------  ...... .  ..... .... ........ ........ ...
Weighbridges                                  0.00    14.20    14.20     0.00     5.27     5.27       100.01    2.21
Computer Hardiare & Software                  0.00    2.40      2.40     0.00    0.89      0.89       100.01    0.41
ti1.      Consulting Servic4s, Technical
Assistance and Training                       0.00   29.20    29.20      0.00    10.83    10.83       100.01     4.s5
- Cornilting Services                         0.00   20.40    20.40      0.00     7.57     7.57       100.0X    3.2X
- Technical Assistance & Training             0.00    8.80      8.80     0.00     3.26     3.26       100.01     1.41
Total Base Cost                            263.75   224.25  488.01    97.85    83.20   181.05          46.01    75.71
U8      S         Saugus  ==8su   Saugu   238822          %=288   Susan
Contingencies                               60.71    69.22   129.93    22.52    25.68    48.21         53.31    20.21
...............                            .............. ... ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ..... ... ...... ........ .........*..... ..
Physical Continencies                        26.38   22.43    48.80      9.79     8.32    18.11        46.01     7.61
Price Contingencies                          34.34    46.80    81.13    12.74    17.36    30.10        57.7X    12.61
Totat                                      324.46   293.47  617.94   120.38   108.88   229.26          47.51    95.81
822    32222   2222         228   8222   12221            2222SU=  322
Land Acquisition                             26.80     0.00    26.80     9.94     0.00     9.94         0.01     4.21
Total Project Cost                       351.26   293.47  644.74   130.32   108.88   239.20          45.51   100.01
................................. ......................................................................................... .................................................



- 25 -
3.34        The proposed Bank loan of US$83.2 million would finance 36% of the
total project cost (excluding the cost of land acquisition), and would cover the
project's foreign exchange cost, excluding contingencies, which would be financed
directly by the Government, using their own resources. Some of the project's
technical assistance would be financed by the Bank-assisted Land Settlement
Infrastructure Project (Loan 2642-MA) (US$0.5 million).   US$155.5  million
equivalent (including US$9.9 million equivalent in land acquisition costs) would
be financed by government budgetary allocations provided to NOW (Table 2).
Table 2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Financing Source                   Amount
(US$ million)
Government of Halaysia                     155.5
World Bank (proposed project)               83.2
World Bank (Loan 2642-MA)                    0.5
TOTAL                               239.2
F.  Proiect Implementation
3.35        The project would be carried out over a four-year period, with NOW
as the executing agency. Under NOW's direction, the Roads Branch of JKR will
implement all physical works included in the project and will supervise the
associated consulting services. The Roads Branch will also be responsible for
the weigh station program and will supervise the technical assistance related
to maintenance training, improvements to construction supervision capabilities,
further implementation of the Pavement Management System and institution of a
Bridge Management System. HPU will be responsible for planning and monitoring
the Road Safety Improvement Program and for supervising the related technical
assistance. The EPU and the Implementation Coordination Unit (ICU) attached to
the Prime Minister's Office will both be involved in expediting and implementing
the agreed Action Plans and will perform a coordinating role with respect to
legislative and enforcement actions relating to truck weight control and road
safety concerns. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on an implementation plan and schedule (Table 3.11) for execution of the project.
3.36        Within the Roads Branch (Chart 2), the Road Design Unit and the
Bridge Design Unit will be responsible for designs, preparation of plans and
contract documents for the highway improvement subprojects, for all work
connected with bridges and box culverts and for physical aspects of the road
safety program. Some of this work will be performed in-house and some will be
carried out by consultants under JKR direction.   These units will also be
responsible for the letting of tenders and the evaluation of bids.   After
approval of their recommendations and award of contracts by the Tenders Board,
however, their responsibility will end and the Project Unit of the Roads Branch
will become responsible for supervising construction of works, which will be
carried out by consultants. For road rehabilitation and strengthening and for
the physical aspects of the Truck Weight Control Program, the Maintenance and



- 26 -
Reconstruction Unit of the Roads Branch will, either directly or through
consultants, carry out designs, and prepare plans and contract documents. This
Unit will then let tenders and evaluate bids and, after approval of their
recommendations and award of contracts by the Tenders Board, will be responsible
for all construction work in the field, utilizing consultants for construction
supervision.
3.37        The Maintenance and Reconstruction Unit of the Roads Branch will be
responsible for all project activities related to maintenance of roads and
bridges, including provision of technical assistance for maintenance training
and for maintenance planning and programming, for consulting services for
construction supervision of periodic maintenance work carried out by contractors,
and for coordinating and expediting the timely execution and implementation of
the Action Plan for Maintenance Improvement as agreed with the Bank.
3.38        Maintertance training activities will be carried out by JgR Is Training
and Research Institute located at Bangi in cooperation with the Maintenance and
Reconstruction Unit. JKR training resources will be supplemented by technical
assistance provided under the project. Training activities will include formal
classroom instruction and seminars at Bangi and at JKR headquarters in Kuala
Lumpur as well as instruction, seminars, field demonstrations and on-the-job
training at state and district JKR offices and at work sites in the field.
Existing instruction manuals and directives will be revised and updated, and new
publications, manuals and directives will be developed with the help of project
technical assistance, which would bring the benefits of the latest technology
to the attention of JKR personnel engaged in maintenance activities.



- 27 -
G. Procurement
3.39        Procurement under the project will be carried out as shown below in
Table 3.
Table 3: PROCUREMENT SUMMARY
(UISIftfifn)
PRc        d
Project Caonent                 ICB        LCB        other       Total
Cost
1.  civ t Jh--
Maintenance laprovement Program       83.9         -                     83.9
(23.1)                  -         (23.1)
Replacement of Timber and Stb-standard  -        21.6                    21.6
Brldes                                        (9.5)       -          (9.5)
Truck Weight Control Program                     11.8        -           11.8
-         (3.8)                 (3.8)
Highway lirprovemts                   61.2                              61.2
(21.9)                            (21.9)
Road Safety Improvement Program                  28.6                    28.6
-         (7.9)      -           (7.9)
It.  Eauldmnt
Veighbridges                           6.9         -          -          6.9
(5.3)        -         -          (5.3)
Caputer Hardwure & Software                                   1.1        1.1
(0.9)      (0.9)
III. Consultina Services. Technical Assistance  -         -         13.1       13.1
and Trainina                            -                   (10.8)      (10.8)
TOTALS                     152.0       62.0       14.2        228.2
(50.3)     (21.2)      (11.7)        83.2)
Notes: 1. Amounts shom incluce contingencies.
2. Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed b the B* Loan.
3. Flgures exclude the cost of land acquisition.
3.40        Civil Works contracts having an estimated total value of US$3.0
million equivalent or more will be tendered by JKR using International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for
Procurement. Contracts having an estimated value of less than US$3.0 million
equivalent may be tendered and awarded in accordance with Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
3.41        For road rehabilitation and strengthening works included in the
Maintenance Improvement Program, civil works having an estimated total value of
about US$83.9 million, including contingencies, will be contracted out by JXR



- 28 -
under ICB. The six contracts for this work will vary in length of road from
about 36 km to 150 km with estimated costs varying from approximately US$8.4
million to US$23.1 million including contigencies. JKR will also let contracts
for the replacement of 67 timber and substandard bridges on the federal highway
network at a total estimated cost,including contlngencies, of US$21.6 million.
These contracts will be tendered under LCB and will cover from one to three
bridges on the average, costing about US$300,000 to US$1.2 million each.
Contracts having a total estimated value of US$11.8 million, including
contingencies, will also be let under LCB for the civil works and equipment
involved in the provision of 35 weigh stations, at an average estimated cost of
US$0.33 million each, under the truck weight control program. Under the highway
improvement component of the project, five contracts having a total value of
approximately US$61.2 million, including contingencies, will be let by JKR.
These contracts, with estimated values varying from US$8.1 million to US$14.6
million, will be tendered using ICB. In addition, contracts with a total
estimated value, including contingencies, of US$28.6 million will be let, using
LCB, for the civil works and pedestrian bridges involved in the improvement of
road safety conditions which will vary in cost between US$107,000 and US$2.9
million.
3.42        Equipment for weigh stations, including weigh-in-motion equipment,
having an estimated total value of US$6.9 million including contingencies, will
be procured by JKR through ICB in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for
Procurement. Computer hardware and software to be used for highway design and
drafting, having an estimated total value of US$1.1 million including
contingencies may be procured by JKR on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.43        fMtracting will be carried out using procedures and standard bid
documentation that has already been agreed with the Bank. Foreign contractors
will not be required to register with the Government unless they are being
awarded a contract. Prequalification of prospective contractors will be carried
out for all contracts whose estimated value exceeds US$2 million equivalent.
The domestic construction industry is quite active and there are many
construction companies throughout Malaysia who would be prepared to bid on these
contracts, although not all of those likely to apply have the requisite financial
resources, experience, personnel or equipment to successfully carry out the
required work.   For LCB, any foreign contractor who wishes to do so may
participate on an equal basis with the domestic contractors. Tenders will be
arranged in such a manner so as to allow bids to be let simultaneously for one
or more contract packages with provision for appropriate discounts for the award
of combined packages. While it will be possible, due to combining of groups of
small contracts, for contractors to bid on more than one of these contract
packages at a time, nevertheless, the small size, geographical dispersion and
isolation of most of the contracts to be let under LCB is expected to discourage
foreign contractors from bidding. While prequalification of contractors will
not be required for contracts having a total value of less than US$2.0 million,
a careful and thorough post-qualification exercise will be carried out by JKR,
using procedures and evaluative methods satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that
contract awards are made only to firms with the necessary financial, technical,
equipment and personnel resources to enable them to satisfactorily complete the
work. There should be no difficulty in achieving meaningful competition.



- 29 -
3.44        ConsultLng services for technical assistance and training, for design
of highway improvements, rehabilitation, and pavement strengthening, and for new
bridges as well as for construction supervision of all civil works included in
the project, amounting to approximately US$13.1 million will be obtained in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, The domestic
consulting industry is very active, qualified and experienced in the type of work
needed and would be able to satisfactorily carry out the work required with the
possible exception of certain specific expertise, such as may be needed for some
bridge repairs or strengthening, that may not be easily available within the
country. While the consultant selection process will include foreign firms, it
is likely that foreign consultants, where needed, would be engaged as individuals
or through joint ventures with local firms to provide the expertise or experience
that may not be available domestically. The consultant's terms of reference,
their suitability for the specific assignment and the draft contract to be used
will be reviewed and approved by the Bank before their appointment.
3.45        Prior Review.   All bidding packages for civil works estimated to
cost US$2.0 million equivalent or more (i.e., 70% of the total civil works
financed under the project) would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation. Bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost
less than US$2.0 million would not be reviewed routinely by the Bank but JKR
would maintain copies of the bid evaluation for the Bank's inspection and send
final contracts to the Bank for approval prior to submission of the first
withdrawal application. All contractual arrangements with consultants will be
subject to the Bank's prior review, and all arrangements for fellowships,
training and study tours to be financed under the project will be subject to the
Bank's prior review and agreement.
H. Disbursements
3.46        Disbursements from the Loan Account would be made at 40% of total
expenditures for civil works. For equipment procurement, technical assistancc,
consulting services, fellowships, training and study tours, disbursements would
be made at 100% of total expenditures.   Disbursements will average 46% of
expenditures, not including contingencies or the costs of land acquisition.
Including contingencies, the Bank loan will finance about 36% of total
expenditures. To accelerate project start-up, retroactive financing is proposed
for expenditures incurred after May 1, 1989, up to a maximum of u8$8 million.
3.47        Disbursements for expenditures on individual contracts of less than
US$150,000 equivalent would be permitted on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOE). Supporting documentation would be retained by JKR, would be
subject to auditing under agreed procedures and would be made available for
inspection by Bank staff during project supervision missions. Disbursements for
expenditures on contracts valued in excess of US$150,000 would be fully
documented.
3.48        A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Table 3.12, which
also shows the profile for previous transport projects in Malaysia. Given the
project's design and content, implementation is expected to be faster than



- 30 -
indicated in the profile, with full disbursewent likely in five years. The loan
closing date would be June 30, 1995.
I. Accout and Audit
3.49        JICR would establish and maintain a separate project account for
expenditures under the project. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
annual audits of the project account would be carried out in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards and procsdures by independent and qualified
auditors.   Audit reports, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, for each
financial year would be furnished to the Bank within nine months of the end of
the audited period. The audit would contain a separate opinion where statements
of expenditure have been used as a basis for disbursement.
J. Monitoring and Reporting
3.50        JKR would provide the Bank with quarterly reports on all phases of
the project, including the progress of the agreed Action Plans. These reports
would be prepared by the Roads Branch using data and contributions from each of
its participating units, including the state and district offices, and from HPU
and other agencies involved in implementation of the various Action Plans. Each
year, JKR, EPU, the Treasury and the Bank would exchange views on JKR's annual
budget for maintenance to determine the adequacy of the funds provided and to
review the balance between capital investment in highway infrastructure and
recurrent expenditures for maintenance of existing roads. The Bank and JKR will
also hold annual consultations to review the various proposed programs for the
coming project implementation year, to assess the status of the project, the
various Action Plans and JKR's maintenance operations and to discuss and resolve
outstanding issues and implementation problems. JKR will, in addition, provide,
the Bank with a Project Completion Report within six months of the loan Closing
Date.   During negotiations,  agreement was reached with the Government on
monitoring targets for road maintenance and pavement rehabilitation and
strengthening for the project period and project reporting requirements. Annex
3 shows project monitoring indicators and gives details of reporting
requirements.
4. M ECT JUSTIFICATION
Benefits and Sensitivitv Analysis
4.1         The main criteria for selecting components included in the project
is their economic rate of return (ERR). All road improvement, upgrading and
rehabilitation components as well as the bridge replacement program have been
subjected to formal economic analysis. The replacement of substandard bridges,
road safety improvements as well as pedestrian overpasses for which safety is
the principal justification have not been subjected to economic analysis in view
of the difficulty of imputing benefits to the value of life. The two highway
improvement components have ERRs of 218 and 33%, respectively, while the
upgrading, rehabilitation and timber bridge replacement components have ERRs
ranging from 128 to well in excess of 100% since these investments are merely
preserving or improving existing assets of substantial value.  All project
components yield ERRs above the opportunity cost of capital in Malaysia which



- 31 -
is 10%. The weighted average ERR of all project components for which benefits
have been quantified is 24%, and under the most pessimistic sensitivity test
applied (20% increase in costs and 20% reduction in benefits), the weighted
project ERR ranges from 12% to 25%. still judged acceptable. Details of the
evaluations of the individual project components are contained in Table 4.1.
To ensure flexibility in investments to be made under the project, agreement was
reached with the Government on the methodology for evaluating potential project
investments, including the requirement that an ERR of 12% be demonstrated. The
following paragraphs describe the benefits considered in the evaluation process
for each project component.
4.2         Bridge Rehabilitation.  For bridges not being replaced for safety
reasons, the benefits considered in the evaluation include: (a) the avoided
maintenance cost savings, (b) savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) due to
the speed change cycle, (c) the avoided extra length VOC savings when bridges
are closed for repairs, (d) the removal of load restrictions, and (e) the removal
of waiting time.
4.3         Highwav Rehabilitation. The main benefits obtained from the proposed
project road improvements are the substantial savings in VOC accruing to road
users. Benefits such as reduced travel time, safety and riding comfort would add
substantially to the analysis but have not been quantified. The benefits of the
pavement rehabilitation are derived from reduced surface roughness, as well as
smoother vertical and horizontal alignments. Operating cost parameters for
various road alignment types were obtained from an inventory of all project roads
carried out by JKK.
4.4         Hiehwav Improvements.  For improvement of the Kuantan-Gambang and
Johor Bahru-Kota Tinggi Roads, the only benefits considered in this analysis are
reductions in VOCs over the life of the investment. Traffic volumes were forecast
for the period up to 2012 based on traffic counts carried out by the Highway
Planning Unit. Three differentiated traffic sections were considered for the
Johor Bahru-Kota Tin"gi Road and two for the Kuantan-Gambang Road. The traffic
analysis produced annual growth rates ranging between 8% and 12% on the two
sections. Economic costs and benefits were estimated for each of the five
sections net of taxes and related to each other over an economic life- of 20
years, assuming an implementation period of four years.
4.5         Improved Maintenance.  Benefits expected from improved and expanded
maintenance operations as a result of the Maintenance Improvement Program and
project technical assistance and training are not quantified, but in the future
should translate into significant savings in vehicle operating costs.
Impact of the Project on the Poor
4.6         It is difficult to estimate the precise impact of the project on the
poverty group since the project benefits would accrue to the population at large
rather than any particular income group.



- 32 -
Environmental Imnact
4.7         The proposed highway improvements and other road works included in
the project are expected to have no negative impact on the environment. Existing
road alignments will be followed to the extent technically feasible, and any
deviations are expected to be extremely minor. Consequently, the acquisition
of rights-of-way will be minimized.   The project should, in fact, have a
favorable effect on the environment in view of technical assistance to be
provided to establish procedures for environmental impact studies to be carried
out prior to road construction and maintenance. Erosion and flooding will also
be reduced by the improvements to drainage facilities and appurtenances. Road
safety would be enhanced by the implementation of the project road safety
improvement program as well as by replacement of unsafe bridges, roadway
widening, improved pavement and better maintenance. Since the road sections
included in the project are mainly in rural areas, the urban impact of the
project is not significant.
Risks
4.8         The project poses no major risks.   There is a possibility that
difficulties with land acquisition could delay implementation of the project
component for improvement of 56 km of road.   This matter is, however, being
vigorously pursued by the Government, which has already frozen the necessary
rights of way. Some slack is also available for this activity in the project
schedule so that soi- delay can be accommodated.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1         During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a)   HPU would be made responsible for coordination of federal and state
investments in highways and for coordination of these investments
with other transport investments planned by the Ministry of Transport
(para. 2.18);
(b)   by June 30, 1990 JKR would be given total authority over the
assignments of its personnel at all levels (para. 2.21);
(c)   annual consultations of the Government and the Bank in November of
each year during the project period to review the scope and
composition of the federal road maintenance program for the coming
year, and of procedures and methodologies to be applied in its
preparation (para. 3.9);
(d)   to reduce by at least 70% by December 31, 1994 the existing backlog
of deferred periodic maintenance of roads (para. 3.9);



- 33 -
(a)    details and timing of the Action Plans for Maintenance Improvement,
for Truck Weight Control and for Road Safety Improvement (paras.
3.9, 3.12 and 3.15);
(f)    scope and timing of technical assistance and other consulting
services to be engaged, outline terms of reference and estimated
costs (para. 3.29);
(g)    general scope and composition of the maintenance training program
for the project period (para. 3.30);
(h)    an implementation plan and schedule for project execution (para.
3.35);
(i)    audit procedures and reporting (para. 3.49);
(j)    monitoring targets for road maintenance and pavement rehabilitation
and strengthening for the project period and project reporting
requirements (para. 3.50); and
(k)    criteria and methodology to be used in determining eligibility of
subprojects to be financed under the project (para. 4.1).
5.2         Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$83.2 million equivalent to
Malaysia, for a period of 17 years, including a grace period of five years, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 34 -
MAItYSIA                   Table: 1.1
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
--  - - - -  -- -- -- -    ....................
Transport Investment Summary
(M$ Millions) 1/
. . ...... _... _......... .... ......... .... ......... ... ..._. .... ......... .........
Malaysia Investment Plans
4th Plan 4th Plan 5th Plan 5th Plan
Original  Actual  Original Revised
Roads                           2,467    4,167    7,644    4,228
Rail and Rapid Transit            300      651    1,049       232
Ports and Marine Service          736    1,484       401      497
Civil Aviation                    612      874    1,667    1,568
Total Transport               4,115    7,176   10,761    6,525
Total Plan                   49,025   74,063   69,000   43,181
Transport as % of Total Plan      8.4      9.7      15.6     15.1
Actual Development Expenditures for Federal Roads
in Peninsular Malaysia, 1976 - 1986
(M$ Millions) I/
Year    Amount    Year    Amount    Year    Amount
----   _ -  --- . ----.- ---  - . --   . .. ---  .- -  ..-- ---  .- -.-.-- -..  -.
1976      193     1980       203     1984       250
1977      192     1981       283      1985      242
1978      196     1982       357      1986      213
1979      195      1983      327
I/ In current terms.
Source: EPU and JKR.
July 1989
17-Jul-89
Filename: Investment (B) No. 12



- 35 -
MALAYSIA                                       Tabte: 2.1
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Evolution of Peninsular Malaysia's Road Network
(km)
Federal                          State                Total Fed. dnd State  Grand
Year      ..............................  ..............................   .       .      .       Total
Paved   Unpaved   Total          Paved   Unpaved   Total          Faved   Unpaved
1955    3,334       383    3,717         4,706     1,982     6,688        8,040     2,365    10,405
1956    3,115       386    3,501         5,067      1,880    6,947        8,182     2,266    10,448
1957    3,380       218     3,598        5,045      1,918    6,963         3,425    2,136    10,561
1958    3,783       249    4,032         4,788     1,904    6,692         8,571     2,153    10,724
1959    3,820        181    4,001        4,980      1,945    6,925        8,800     2,126    10,926
1960    3,880        164    4,044        5,184      1,931    7,115        9,064     2,095    11,159
1961    3,844       193    4,037         5,325     1,928     7,253        9,169     2,121    11,290
1962    3,898       204     4,102        5,874     2,376     8,250        9,772     2,580    12,352
1963    3,968       149    4,117         6,283     2,468    8,751        10,251     2,617    12,868
1964    4,006       233     4,239        6,900     2,590    9,490        10,906    2,823    13,729
1965    4,263       326    4,589         7,391     2,569    9,960        11,654    2,895    14,549
1966    4,335       354     4,689        7,751     2,535    10,286       12,086    2,889    14,975
1967    4,418       439    4,857         8,182     2,401    10,583       12,600     2,840    15,440
1968    4,522       413     4,935        8,599     2,417    11,016       13,121     2,830    15,951
1969    4,559       393    4,952         8,900    2,372    11,272        13,459     2,765    16,224
1970    4,612       385     4,997        9,161     2,265    11,426       13,773     2,650    16,423
1971    4,689       356     5,045        9,438     2,069    11,507       14,127    2,425    16,552
1972    4,714       440     5,154        9,794     2,083    11,877       14,508    2,523    17,031
1973    4,718       425     5,143       10,103     2,008    12,111       14,821     2,433    17,254
1974    4,707       448     5,155       10,351     2,131    12,482       15,058    2,579    17,637
1975    4,717       535     5,252       10,576     2,134    12,710       15,293     2,669    17,962
1976    4,798       752     5,550       10,906     2,508    13,414       15,704     3,260    18,;64
1977    4,845       811     5,656       11,333     2,671    14,004       16,178    3,482    19,660
1978    4,921     1,005     5,926       11,455     2,788    14,243       16,376    3,793    20,169
1979    4,939      1,088    6,027       12,036     2,625    14,661       16,975     3,713   20,688
1980    5,269     1,108    6,377        12,587    2,951    15,538        17,856    4,059    21,915
1981    5,386     1,264     6,650       12,817    3,319    16,136        18,203     4,583    22,786
1982    6,484     1,622     8,106       13,635     3,801    17,436       20,119     5,423    25,542
1983    6,506     1,895    8,401        13,929    4,225    18,154        20,435     6,120    26,555
1984    7,060     2,117    9,177        14,059     3,997    18,056       21,119    6,114    27,233
1985    7,231     2,299    9,530        14,302     3,829    18,131       21,533     6,128    27,661
1986    7,240     2,300    9,540        14,329     3,801    18,130       21,569    6,101    27,670
1987    7,325     2,300     9,625       14,410     3,720    18,130       21,735    6,020    27,755
............... ............................ .. .. . ... . . . . . .   . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .
Notes:    1. Figures do not include municipal roads.
2. The unpaved category includes both gravel and earth roads.
3. Figures for 1984 onwards reflect acdninistrative changes in road classifications.
Source: JKR
June 1989
14-Jul-89



- 36 -
MALAYSIA                                                           Table: 2.2
, ..........                                                       ..........
NIGHNAY RENABILITATIOM AND IMPOVEMENT PROJECT
Lenwth ot Roads In Penirsular Nalaysia By State, 1987
-km)
.........................................................................................................................
Federal Roads                  State Roads                            Toll Expressways
............. .................................................. .......................................  ..............................................
States                Unpaved   Paved    Total   Unpaved   Paved    Total   Compieted               Under          To Be       Total
Construction Constructed
......................................................................... ................................................
Perlis                               121       121        14      392        406                                                     0
Kedah                      69       309       378       890    1,990    2,880              56               24            31       111
Penang                               125       125       139       865    1,004            14                            51         65
Perak                      S5       713       768        229    2,061    2,290             50               25           173      248
Selangor                            696       696       729    2,111    2,840              33                            108       141
Negri Sembilan            375       647    1,022         157       902    1,059            60               36                     96
Mblacca                              118       118        26       777       803                            48                      48
Johore                    520    1,235    1,755         273    2.202    2,475              28               36          112       176
Pahang                    921    1,976    2.897          522    1,104    1,626             36                                       36
Yrernganu                 136       856       992       212    1,254    1,466                                                        0
Kelantan                  224       529       753       529        752    1,281                                                      0
Total        2,300    7,325    9,625    3,720   14,410   18,130                276              169          474       918
............................I............... ................................................................
Source: JKR.
June 1989
14-Jut-89
Filename:  Roadstat (Disk 2), No. 54



- 37 -
Table: 2.3
MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEHENT PROJECT
Traffic Composition on Major Links of Federal Highways
In Peninsular Malaysia, 1986
(%)
Cars and   Light   Medium    Heavy
Road Section                   Motor   Utility  Trucks   Trucks   Trucks    Buses    Total
Cycles    Vans
--------------------------- Percent -----------------------
Route 1 (Alor Setar - JB)        14.1      50.4     10.8      12.1      8.5       4.1      100
Route 2 (KL - Klang)             14.5      71.3      7.2       3.5      1.8       1.7      100
Route 3 (Kuantan-Kota Baru)      25.6      41.6     13.2       9.6      7.6       2.4      100
Route 4 (East-West Hwy)          10.8      36.4     15.9      14.3     20.2       2.4      100
Route 5 (Ipoh - Pontian)         27.8      44.4     10.9       9.6      3.8       3.5      100
Route 6 (Penang)                 49.5      35.1      5.5       3.0      0.3       6.6      100
Source: HPU.
June 1989
14-Jul-89
Filename: AADT (Disk 1), No. 1



MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REMABILtTATION AID iMtROVEMENT PROJECT
............ ,.............................
Traffic at Selected Locations on Toll Expressways in Peninsular Malaysia, 1985-1988
........................................................   .................................................................................................................................. 
Canositfon (%)                      Caposmition (t)                         Composition (X)                              Coaposition (X)
AADt   2 Axtes 2 AxLes 3 Axles   AA9D    2 Axles 2 Axles 3 Axles   AADT   2 Axles 2 Axtes 3 Axles                     AADT   2 Axtes 2 Axles 3 Axles
Toll Plana                               and 4   and 6    ard                and 4   and 6    and                 and 4   ad 6    and        Bus               and 4   and 6    and       Bus
wheels  Wheels  Above               Wheels  Wheels  Above               Wheels  Wheels  Above                        Wheels  Wheels  Above
.................................................................................................................................................... ................................................................................................
Sungai Besi                     29,776    85.0    10.2        4.8   31,573    87.3       8.6      4.1   32,371    87.7        8.3     4.0             35,352    87.8       5.5     4.1      2.6
Sere,rban                       17,903    80.6    13.0        6.4   19,365    84.5       9.8      5.7   10,192    89.2        3.6     2.2      5.0   10,895    89.1        3.7      2.3     4.9
Gorbak                          11,417    82.6    10.7        6.7   12,252    83.5    10.0        6.5   12,481    83.4    10.2        6.4             13,01S    83.9       9.5      6.6
Sentong                          7,186    75.8    13.9    10.3    7.652    77.0    12.8    10.2    8,045    77.5    12.9              9.6              8,324    78.3    12.0        9.7
Johor Bahru                     24,502    83.5    12.1        4.4   23,974    83.1    12.1        4.8   26,312    83.6    11.8        4.6             28,239    84.3    11.3       4.4
Bukit Kayu Hitam                   662    75.7       6.2    18.1        834    78.3      5.8    15.9    1,000    83.6         5.4    11.0              1,220    86.2    54         8.4
Senai                           19,926    77.3    14.9        7.8   18,972    76.2    14.8        9.0   20,134    76.9    14.1        9.0             21,664    76.9    14.1       9.0           1
Alor Setar                                                           4,735    96.5        2.8     0.7    3,607    96.6        2.7     0.7                                                       W
Slim River                       9,280    68.5    20.5    11.0    9,418    67.8    21.6    10.6    9,658    67.2    22.3    10.5                       9,447    70.2    18.2    11.6
Peang Bridge                   11,236    93.2       5.4      1.4   10,612    92.6       5.5      1.9   12,256    92.3        5.7      2.0            16,590    92.2       5.9      1.9
11PM                                                                                                      6,868    94.1       4.1      1.2     0.6    7,4?    93.5         4.6      1.3      0.6
Kajang                                                                                                   10,595    93.2       4.5      1.8     0.5   11,547    93.2        4.5      1.8     0.5
Bangi                                                                                                     5,395    93.1       4.4      1.4     1.1    6,052    93.5        4.1      1.4      1.0
Wilta                                                                                                     3,427    77.2    13.4       7.4      2.0    3,742    76.8    14.2         7.1      1.9
Port Dickson North                                                                                        4,946    86.7       5.8     6.0      1.5    5,256    86.9        5.7     5.8      1.6
Port Dickson South                                                                                        4,665    86.6       5.8     6.0      1.6    4,879    86.6        5.7     6.0       1.7
Senawang                                                                                                  6,541    74.1    12.0    10.4        3.5    6,755    75.2    11.5    10.3         3.0
Pedas Linggi                                                                                                498    95.5       3.1      0.6     0.8       544    95.7       3.1     0.7      0.5
Siapeng Aapat                                                                                             3,823    84.7       7.0     4.7      3.6    3,969    85.1        7.4     4.5      3.0
Ayer Keroh                                                                                                5,834    86.4       6.6     4.4      2.6    6,317    83.5        7.6     6.1      2.8
Changkat Jering                                                                                           7,010    88.2       5.1      3.3     3.4    6,900    86.9        5.8     4.0      3.3
Kuala Kangssr                                                                                             3,154    92.6      4.4       1.4     1.6    3,613    90.2        5.6     2.8      1.3
Jelapang                                                                                                  8,571    88.2      S.5      3.2      3.1    8,454    85.9       6.7      4.3      3.1
Hutan KanpunS                                                                                                                                          3,901    91.5      3.6      3.3       1.6
Ator Setar Worth                                                                                                                                       3,450    95.8       2.7      0.8     0.7
Alor Setar South                                                                                                                                       3,195    95.9       3.1      1.0
Gurun                                                                                                                                                  3,619    92.5      3.1      2.7       1.7
......................... ................. .............. ........... .................. ............ .................... ... ... ............. ...................... .................. .................................. ...
Source: HPU
July 1989
17-Jul-89
Filename: Toltplaza (Disk 2), No. 61
.5



MALAYSIA
NIGHWAY REHABIIITATION AND INPROV1ENT PROJECT
Cumulavive NuMber of Notor Vehicles in Peninsular Malaysia by Type and Year, 1977-1986
Year    Motorcycles        Motorcars          Buses             Taxis    Hire I Drive Cars  Goods Vehicles   Other Vehicles         Total
................ ............................... ................ ................................  ............   ................................ ............ ..................................  ........................ ... .... .. ....
Wisher    X      Wisher    X       Wisher    X   Wisher   X        Wisher    X      Wwmber    X       Wusber    X      Wisher    X
1977    951,080  58.7%    491,933  30.3%    10,545   0.7%  10,907  0.7%        378  0.0%    112,025  6.9%      44,403   2.7%  1,621,271   100%
1978   1,079,020  59.0%    555,358  30.3%   11,589   0.6"  11,587  0.6%        464  0.0%    122,543   6.7%     49,397  2.%  1,829,958  100%
1979   1,195,997  59.1%    612,199 30.2%    12,276   0.6%  12,182  0.6"        523  0.0%    135,682  6.7%      56,479  2.8%  2,025,338  100% l
1980   1,391,899 59.0%    714,742  30.3%    13,079   0.6%  13,644  0.6%        703  0.0%    154,543  6.6%      68,786  2.9%  2,357,386  l00%
1981   1,556,516 59.1%   797,143  30.3%    13,898  0.5%  16,115  0.6%          991   0.0%   167,432  6.4%    79,853  3.0% 2,631,948  100%
1982   1,744,433 59.5%   881,923  30.1%    15,199   0.5%  17,168  0.6"       1,238  0.0%   180,882  6.2%    89,258  3.0% 2,930,101   100%
1983   1,948,342  59.9%    974,170  29.9%   16,069   0.5%  18,497  0.6%      1,897   0.1%    195,752   6.0%    98,506  3.0%  3,253,233   100%
1984  2,132,791  59.8%  1,075,328 30.2%     16,944   0.5%  18,816  0.5%      2,292   0.1%    212,628  6.0%    106,668   3.0%  3,565,467   100%
1985  2,289,669 59.9%  1,151,979  30.1%     17,841   O.S%  19,445   0.5%     2,544   0.1%   232,624  6.1%    111,393  2.9%  3,825,495   100%
1986  2,396,679  59.8%  1,206,000  30.1%    18,703   0.5%  19,660  0.5%      2,721   0.1%   246,828  6.2%    114,581   2.9%  4,005,172   10X
. ............. ....................... ............ ....................... ....  ..........      .........................
Source: J.IR. Amual Statistical Bulletin, 1986.
Juty 1989
17-Jul-89
Filenale:Register (Disk 1), Ho. 24



- 40 -
MALAYSIA                                                       Table: 2.6
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND INPROVEMEIT PROJECT
................................................
Accident Statistics for Peninsular Malaysia
Vehicles                                                                Total   Fatality  Vehictes
Total   involved   tength      totat                  Casuatties                 Deaths    Rate       per
Year     Population Vehictes     in        of      Number of ............................ . . .......... Due to   per      1.000
Accidents  Roads    Accidents  Fatat   Serious   Minor    Total   Injuries   10,000  Persons
(000's) (10,000's)             (km)                                                        Sustained Vehicles
......................................................................................................................I.............
1978    10,945    183.0   91,122    21,438       56,021     1,909    4,535    15,215    21,659      2,561      14.0   167.2
1979    11,189    198.9   94,788    22,035       57,931     1,979    6,012   14,620    22,611       2,60Z      13.1   177.8
1980    11,442    235.7   99,485    23,113       59,084     2,001     5,664    14,739    22,404     2,568      10.9   206.0
1981   11,735     263.2  100,175    23,816       58,768     1,755     5,257    13,333    20,345     2,S00       9.5   224.3
1982    12,039    293.0  116,947   24,434        68,330     1,951     5,498    13,217    20,666     2,976      10.2   243.4
1983    12,345    325.3  128,198    27,440       72,634     2,282     6,057    15,589    23,928     3,220       9.9   263.S
1984    12,817    356.6  128,989   28,582        73,72?     2,303     6,052    14,722    23,077     3,344       9.4   278.2
1985   13,156     382.5  131,814    29,692       75,300     2,118     6,219    13,187    21,524     3,304       8.6   290.7
1986   13,492     400.5  124,628    29,805       71,557     2,124     6,042    12,900    21,066     3,185       8.0   296.8
1987   13,655     411.7  118,094    30,692       68,066     1,975     5,772    11,628    19,375     3,015       7.3   301.5
1988   13,959     427.4  111,986   31,600 1/  65,127        2,070    6,015    12,464    20,549      3,022       7.1   306.2
1/ Estimated.
Source: HPU
June 1989
14-Jul*89
Filename: Accident (Disk 2), No. 28



MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
................. ...............................................
Geometric Des8gn Criteria for Major Roads in Rural Areas
Design Control and Criteria
............................
Desgn Standard                           R6              RS             R4             R3              R2             RI              RIA
Access Control                          FULL          PARTIAL         PARTIAL        PARTIAL           NIL            NIL             NIL
Area Type                            F    R    N    F    R    N    F    R    N    F    R    N    F    R    N    f    R    N    F    R    N
Desitn Speed                 Ks/hr  120 tO0   80  100   80   60   90   70   60   70   60  50  60  5    40   40   30   20   40   30  20
Cross Sectfon Elements
......................
Lane Width                    a         3.50           3.50            3.25           3.00            2.75         (5.00) 1/       (4.50) 1/
houtlder Width                 m   3.00 3.00 2.50 3.00 3.00 2.S0 3.00 3.00 2.00 2.50 2.50 2.00 2.00 2.00 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 11.50 1.5
Shoulder Width $000            m        1.00            1.00           1.00           0.50            0.50           0.50            0.50
Nedian Width (Minimu)          *    6.0  5.0  4.0  4.0 3.5  3.0  3.0  2.5  2.0         N/A             N/A            N/A             N/A
Median Width (Desirable)       m   18.0 12.5  8.0 12.0  9.0  6.0 9.0  6.5  4.0         N/A             N/A            N/A             N/A
Marginal Strip (Width)                  O.S0           0.50           0.25           0.25            0.00           0.00            0.00
Ninima  Reserve W idth        m         60           60(50) 21       40(30) 2/         20             20              12             12
Eleuents of Design
...................
Stopping Slght ofstance        a    285  205    102 40   85  180  120   8   120   85  0    85             65 45 45   30   20  45   30   20
Passinig flght Distance        m         N/A       700  550  450 625  S00  450  500  450  350 450  350  300  300  250  200 300  250  200
Ninio  Radfus                  a    570 375  230  37  230  125 300  17S  125   175 12S         8OS  1258   S      S0 50  30   15 5030  15
Ninim  Length of Spiral        a    133  121  104  88   70   59  70    S9   55   59    SS   43   SS   43   39         N/A              /AI
Naxia. Superelevation        Ratio      0.10           0.10            0.10           0.10            0.10           0.10            0.10
Naxium Grade (Desirable)       %      2    3    4    3    4    5    4    5    6    5    6    7    6    7    6    7    8    9           10
Maximum Grade                  X      5    6    7    6    7    8    7    8    9    8    9               1 10   12   10   12  15        25
Crest Vertical Curve (K)            120   60   30   60   30   15   45   22   15   22   15   10   15   10   10   10    5    5   10    S    5
Sg Vertical Curve (K)                60   40   28   48   28   1S   35   20   1S   20   1S   12   15   12   10   10    8    8   10   8    8
...........................................................................................................................................
1I Total width of pavement
2/ Reserve width depends on road category
notes:    1. All values shoem above are minfew*Amxim. values.  Efforts should be made to achieve as high a value as possible.
2. Abbreviation: F * Flat, R a Rolling, N a Nountafnous, N/A a Not applicable
Source: JKR. Technical Instrurtions (Roads).
June 1989
07-Nov-89
filename: Design (Disk 2), 43



MALAYSIA
HI6HWAY REHABILITATION AND INPROVENENT PROJECT
boeetrfc Design Criterfa for Major Roads In Urban Areas
.-...................................... ................................................................................................................  
Design Control and Criteria
............................
Desgon Standrd                           U6             Us              U4             U3              U2             U1             Ule
Access Control                          FULL          PARTIAL         PARTIAL      PARTIAL/NIL         NIL            NIL             NIL
Area Type                            I   It   III   I   II   III   I   II   III   I   It   ItI   I   II   III   I   II   III   F    R    N
Design Speed                 KWhr  100   80   60    80   60   50  70    60    50  60    50    40    N   40   30 40  30  2040             30   20
Cross Section Elements
......................
Lene Width                    a         3.50           3.50            3.25           3.00            2.75         (S.00) I/       (4.50) 11
Shoulder Width                 m   3.00 3.00 2.50 3.00 3.00 2.50 3.00 2.S0 2.00 2.50 2.00 1.S0 2.00 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 i.50 1.50
Shoulder Width $0100          m         1.00           1.00            1.00           O.SO            0.50           0.50           0.50
aedian W*dth (Minima)          m   4.00 3.50 3.00 3.00 2.50 2.00 2.50 2.00 1.50 2.00 1.50 1.00         N/A            N/A             N/A
Medan Width (Oesirable)        m   12.0  9.0  6.0 9.0 6.5  4.0  7.5  5.0 3.0  6.0  4.0  2.0            N/A            N/A             N/A
MarginaL Strip (Width)         a        0.50           O.SO            0.25           0.25            0.00           0.00            0.00
Minima  Reserve Width          a         60             SO            40(20) 2/      30(20) 2V         20             12              12
Elements of Design
...................
toppinh Sfsht DOstance        *    205   140  85  140   85 65   11S 8S   65   85    65 4S   65 45   30  45  30   20  45   30   20
Passing  Sight Distence        m         N/A       S50  450  350  500  450 350 450  350 300  350  300 250 300  250 200 300 250  200
Minium Radius                  a    45  280  150  280 150 100  210  150  100  150 100   60100  60   35   60   35   15  60   35   15
Nini  aLength oft piral              73  63   53   45   35   32   35   32   26  32   26  23            N/A            N/A             N/A
Maxima Superelevat10n        Ratio      0.06           0.06            0.06           0.06            0.06           0.06           0.06
Noxou. Grade (Deafrabte)       X      3    4    5    4    5    6    S    6    7   6    7   8    7    8    9    7   8    9    7    8    9
Maxif   Grade                  X      6   7     8    7    8    9 1        9   10    9   10   12   10   11       1     12   1    10   12 15
Crest Vertfd Cwure (K)               60   30   15  30   15   10   20  15    10   15   10   10   10   10    5   10    5   5   10    S    S
s     "fertical Curve ()             40   281S 28 15 12   20   15   12   15   12   10   12               1     0 8 10     8 8  108          S
.................. .............................................   .................................
1t Total width of peveAmnt
21 Rceseve width depends on roed category
"otes:   1. All values  hon aboe are einba/exli- values. All effort should be ode to achieve as high a value a possible.
2. Abbrvations  I a Flat, II a Rolting, III a Nosmtinotus, N/A a Not applicabte
I a Relatively free in reed locatien uwth vwery tittle problews as regards to land awquisitaon, affected buildins or other
socfal IV sensitive areas.
it G Inteedisato beteen I and It.
II1 I  Vey restrictive in reed location with problem  as to lan  acquisition, affected buiLdings or other sensitive areas.
Source JOR. Technical Instructfons (Reads).
Je 1969 
07-Nov-89
Filena es: Urbweesign (DIsk 2), No. 641



- 43 -
NALAYSIA                                     Table: 2.9
HIOMIAY RENABILITATION AND INPRONEIT PROJECT
Geometric Design Criteria for Roads in Rural Areas
Group                            Unit            01                02                 03
ADT Two Mayp                   Veh/day          <100              100-250           250-400
Terrain                                        F  R   N           F  R  N           F   R   N
Design Speed                     Km/h          50 50 30         60 50  40          80 60  S0
Pavemmnt Type                              Laterite          Laterite
Surface Width                     m              4.5               5.0                6.0
Usable Shoulder Vidth-Min 1/      m        1.25 1.25 1.00    1.25 1.25 1.00   2.00 2.00 1.00
Formation Width 2/                m        8.0  8.0 8.0    8.5 8.5  8.5         11.0  11.0  9.0
Reserve Width - Minimum           m              20              20   30              30
Naximum Gradiebnt                 X           7   9   10         6  8   10          4   6   9
Critical Grade Length 3/          m        Not Applicable     Use LaY Byes        350 180 120
Stopping Light Distance-Nin 41    m           60  60  60        80  60 60         110  80  60
Passing Sight Distance-Ninimum    m         Use Lay eyes       430 350 350        560 430 350
Ninimum Radius                    m           80 80 30          120 80  50        210 120 80
Transition Curve Min Length 5/    m        Not Applicable       70  60  60         80  70 60
Widening                          m        0.75 1.00 1.50    0.75 1.00 1.50      - 1.00   1.25
Superelevation                  Ratio           1s10               1:10              1:10
Camber/Cross Fall               Ratio           1:25               1:30              1:30
Vertical Curve Crest Nin K 6/     as          10  10  10         15  10  10        30  1S  10
Vertical Curve Sag Min K 6/       mX          12  12  8          16  12  10        24  16  12
Bridges
Overpass Widths between
Parapets                        m              7.0                7.5               8.0
Underpass Widths between
Abut Walls                      m              7.0                7.0               8.5
Vertical Clearance Over
Roadways                        m             4.50              4.50               4.50
1/ Shoulders to be paved with laterite material.
2/ Formation width includes 0.5 m each sIde for rounding.
3/ Use truck climbins lanes If critical grade length is exceeded.
4/ Stopping light distarce to be increased on downgrade.
5/ Values given are for mininum length required for 10X superelevation run-off.
6/ Ninifum length of vertical curve: 'L"  KA. L a curve length in meters; A n AlSebraic difference
of grade in percent.
Abbreviations: m a meter; R a Rolling; F - Flat; N a Nobutainous; Veh a Vehicle; min a minifum.
Source: JKR
Jurm 1989



3  }    ji  |      |  ||  S  ij  2    j i                  Table 2.10
a3.         a.a    aaa 31            a.  a. a.  a.ia. }31313
1-     3RS1 .            a  a                'i     I     
3 .            - 33 49es                     **jo 
a]  !                     *  *           * .4 14~ t 49 9~
I   1.  *            49 I9    49   49   49    N    4   e 9o *
| 3iI   ea   j,   *  *    .   *    -   a I4  s4     3
|1~~~~ ~~ N 49 !9 .4 49  ---3 
h'|    I    | 1               *      4  ee        *                fj  *3X  
3: *    :}*,    !    - -~ --~-                           a   j  
.!  _b   1        _    -  
3i         i I                        
|    I |t *'    Z  a                a ;^.eeoZg  
*      i41    4..                                   '.    a     e-be~     
4 ' 4a I                                              a.il:0sli



MALAYSIA
NIONWAY RENABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
..............................................
Actual and Antfipated JKR Road MaIntenance Budgets for Federal
NHihways in Penimuwlar Malaysia By State, 1965-19K4
(M  MltlIon) 1/
...............................................................................................................
Actual  llocations                                    Anticipated Budgets
Rood Section        -........................................................................................
1965     1986      its7     1968      1909        1990     1991      1992      993      1994
............ ........................ .. ............... ............................ ............................. ............... ............................... .....
PERLIS                  1.50      1.06     0.82      0.81     0.71        1.87      1.94     2.12      2.10     2.28
KEDA"                   5.70     6.38      2.32      3.49     3.75        5.41     5.63      5.85      6.09     6.33
PEINAS                  2.68      2.98     1.67      1.58     0.99        2.86      2.98     3.10      3.22     3.35
PERAK                  14.68      8.97    14.80    19.93    10.00         9.13     9.S0      9.88    10.27    10.69
SELAMOR               10.10     S.97      8.70      5.65    15.00       12.00    12.48    12.98    13.50    14.04
NEGRI SED ILAN         11.69    11.35      4.88      5.03    15.00       11.00     8.50      8.84      9.19     9.56
NMACCA                  2.41      1.66     2.25      1.65     0.82        2.27      2.36     2.46      2.6      2.66
JONIRE                 14.87    17.82    12.S8    14.68    17.00         19.00    19.76    14.00    14.6       15.14
PAHANG                 17.21    11.56    16.12    10.72    10.00          9.31     9.68    10.07    10.47    10.89
TRENGAANU              11.55      9.11     9.39      9.74     7.55        9.39     9.76    14.00    14.56    15.14
KEUANTA                 4.92    12.30    10.33       8.20     9.08       10.04    1O.44    10.85    11.29    11.74
.....   ......... .... ...  ..  .....  ... ....  ... ....    ... ....  ....... ..........  .......  ........... .. 
Totals 21            97.31    92.16    83.86    81.48    89.90         92.28    93.03    94.15    97.81   101.82
Required Budgets 3/                                                          O *  -  125.00   155.00   155.00   160.00   165.00
if In Current term.
2/ Does not Include allocation for fedhral headquarters in KuLal Lwpur.
3/ Budget allocations needed to properly carry out routine and pertodIc maintenance, ncluding reducing
existing backlog of deferred periodic maintenance by 70% during 1990-1994.
Source:  JKR
Jura 1989
18-Jul-89
Fitlenuie:  JKRBudget (Disk 1), No. 13                                                                                                                   -



- 46 -
Table: 2.12
MALAYSIA                       -
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
,     ................   -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Distribution of Maintenance Personnel By State, 1989
------Professionals------     ---Operators---       Laborers
States             Engineers  Tech.   Techni-      Drivers  Heavy Eq.                 Totals
Assistant  cians               Operators
Perlis                    1        1         5            5        14           187       213
Kedah                    12        9        26           28        46           692       813
Penang                    2        3        11           12        12          476        516
Perak                    11       20       26            39        62        1,627      1,785
Selangor                  7       11        16           42        72           703       851
Negri Sembilan            9        8        24           16        56          870        983
Malacca                   5        4        11           13        29          463        525
Johore                   12       12        34           38        58            28       182
Pahang                   11       13        27           40       113        1,104      1,308
Trengganu                 6        7        22           33        60           651       779
Kelantan                  7       11        28           16        46           371       479
LKTP Pahang               7        3        10                                             20
LKTP Bahau                2        2        10                                             14
Johor Tenggara            2        0         1                                              3
Pahang Tenggara           4        1       13                                              18
....    ---       ---         -- --       ---         --.-        -
Totals                 98      105       264          282       568        7,172      8,489
Note:  JKR's headquarters in Kuala Lumpur has 9 professional staff in its maintenance
division.
Source: JKR.
July 1989
14-Jul-89



- 47 -
MALAYSIA                     Table: 2.13
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Personnel Needed to Manage and Execute Annual Maintenance Program, 1989
Existing   Estimated    Surplus
Personnel     Total          or
(June 89)    Required   (Deficit)
Personnel Needed for Program Administration and Contract Supervision
Professionals, Management and
Supervision of Contracts                    104         120          (16)
Supervision of Force Account
Works and Workshops                         383          384          (1)
Administrative Personnel                      180          194          (14)
Drivers                                        96          121         (25)
Subtotal                                    763         819          (56)
Personnel Needed for Force Account Work
Foreman                                     1,030       1,311         (281)
Operators                                   2,142       2,622         (480)
Skilled                                     2,183       3,933       (1,750)
Unskilled                                   5,097       6,555       (1,458)
Subtotal                                 10,452      14,421       (3,969)
Grand Total                                11,215      15,240       (4,025)
Note: Assuming present productivity.
Source: JKR.
June 1989
14-Jul-89
Filename: Persons (Disk 2) No. 49



- 48 -
Table: 2.14
MALAYSIA                        -
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
..   ..  . ......   . .   ..  .  .  .. ...    -- - -- - -
Distribution of Bridges on Federal Highways
in Peninsular Malaysia by State
Number
State                                           of
Bridges
PERLIS                                             45
KEDAH                                              85
PENANG                                             90
PERAK                                             330
SELANGOR                                          200
NEGRI SEMBILAN                                    250
MALACCA                                            85
JOHORE                                            450
PAHANG                                            310
TRENGGANU                                         175
KELANTAN                                          120
Total                                      2,140
Source: JKR.
June 1989
14-Jul-89
Filename: Bridges (Disk 1), No. 3



MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY RENABILITATUN AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
,. .... ...... ........... ...........................
Rehabilitation and Strengthening Program for
Fedwrat Roads In Peninsular talaysia
,.................................................................................. ...............................................................................
Locatlon                                       Road Width (t)                     Average Estinsted
sectlon      Route    State  --------L-e--------n-------- --------------------- -- Legth  ------------------                       Road      Cost       Cost
No.                          From                            To                 (Ku)    Present Proposed          Condition per Km  (MS Milt)
(MS OGOs)
..............................................................................................................................................
I          I    Penans   Penang/Perak Boundary           Kedah/Penmng Boundary                 61       6.7       7.3       Fair            246       1S.0
2          1    Kedah    4 km South of Alor Setar   Kedmh/Pearon  Boundary                     41       6.7       7.3       Poor            268       11.0
3         50    Johore   Bstu Pahat                       Keluang                              53       6.7       7.3       Fair            245       13.0
4          5    Johore   3 bk  North of Batu Pahat   23kmn orth of Batu Pahat                  20       6.7       7.3       Fafr            S00       10.0
5          S    Johore   8atu Padat                      Pontfan KeciL                         73       6.7       7.3       Fair            247       18.0
6          3    Johore   Kota Tfnigi                      Johore/Pahang Eoundary              129       6.5       7.3       Fair            333       43.0
7          3    Pahang   Kuantan                          Johore/Phdang Boundary              149       6.1       7.3       Fair            336       S0.0
a          5    Perak    T*Iuk Intan                      Perok/Selangor Boundary              36       6.1       7.3       FaIr            S00       18.0
Totat                                                                        562                                           317      173.0
..................................... .................................................................................. w.......................................................................
Notes: Sections 1 and 2 to be let as one contract.
Sections 3 and 4 to be Let as one contract.
Costs of land acWqisition and contingencies are not incLuded.
Source: JKR and Mission.
I-.
w



MALAYSIA
HIGMYAY REHABILITATION AND IPtOVYEMENT PROJECT
Action Plan for Maintenance Improvement
Federal Roads and Bridqes in Peninsular Malaysia
Item                                                                                               Dates
ho.             Activity                                       Agencfes                 Start              End                 Remorks
1.  Assigrmant of one quallf ed Road Engineer to            Civitl Service Board.    Janury 1990    December 1990   These are not teqrary assigtuents.
each JOR district office in Penfnsutar Malaysia        Roads  ranchh  NOW
to be responsible for all mintenance activities.       and JCR
He i8 to have no other responsibitites. In
addition, at least one tehnicalt assistant and
one technician are also to be assigned as support
staff to each district office so that a viable
smintenance unit cmn be formed.
2.  Altocation of adequate tunads for Maintenence of        Treasury  EPU end        January 1990    December 1990   Se  table 2.11
Federal Roads.                                         MOW
3.  further extensmon of Cosputeriled Pavement              Roads Branch and JKR      January 1990    Oecenber 1991   With technicat assistance provided                    I
Maintenance Wanagement (BSM) System to state           Training & Research                                         urder the project.                                  ln
iCR off ices.                                           institute                                                                                                      o
4.  Carry out Rehabilitation and Strengthening              Roads Orench and JKR      Jaeuary 1990    December 1993   See Table 3.1
Progra  for Federal Roads in Peninsular                Training & Research
Malaysia.                                               Institute
S.  Iprovement of training for Maintenance                 Roada Branch and JKR     January 1990    Decemter 1993   With technical assistance provided
Nwnagement                                             Trainfng Centre                                             under the proJect.
6.  ExtensIon of Axle Load Study                            Roads Branch and HPU     January 1990    Decefher 1993   Follow on to work begas  by consultants.
T.  Evaluation and Extension of                             Roads Branch and State   January 1990    December 1991   For routine caintenance.
Maintenance Contract System                             JKRO&
S.  improvement in superwision of                           Roa ds Branh and State   January 1990    Deeimber 1991   With technieal assistance financed urder
Works by Contract and Force                            JKR14                                                       Loan 2642-NA                                      Id i3
Accoumt.                                                                                                                                                             t
9.  Research and Use of New Technotogies                    Roads Branch and JKR      Jansary 1990    Decerier 1991   With technical assistance provided through           A m
for maintenance of roads and bridges                   Training & Research                                         British bi-laterat aid.                             ow
Institute                                                                                                    OftN 
N-



Item                                                                                            Dates
No.              Activity                                    Agencies                     Start             End                            Remarks
10. Ilwopvement & Updating of Condition Inentorfes          Roads Branch and all       Jamuary 1990    Decmber 1993   WIth technical assistance provided urder
for Roads and  rIdbes                                   State JKRs                                                   the project.
11. Establthdmnt of computertzed Bridge Nalntenmnce         Roads Branch               January 1990    Oeceaber 1992   WIth technfcal assistance provided under
System                                                                                                               the project.
Source: JKR and Nlsslen
June 1989
V1
a -a
MiIJ



- 52 -
MALAYSIA                    Table 3.3
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Replacement of Timber Bridges for
Federal Roads in Peninsular Malaysia
Bridge Estimated
State       Route              Location            Number    Cost
(M$ 'OOOs)
Perak        58    Changkat Jong - Bider            51/5         800
48/8      1,400
51/4      1,200
60    Batu Hampar - Chankat Jering    45/5         300
47/2        400
48/3        700
51/1        900
70    Changkat Jong - Kampar           27/2        600
40/11     1,200
47/6        800
73    Parit - Pusing                   20/7        700
77    Pengkalan Hulu                   135/1       900
135/3       400
Johore       50    Klaung - Jemaluang               3/101        500
Pahang        9    Karak - Manchis                 MS 119      1,200
MS 121       600
MS 134       900
MS 137       600
10    Triang                           79/1      1,700
64    Maran - Jerantut                 53/6        900
60/1      1,000'
85/2        800
86/9        500
93/12       500
Total: 24 Bridges                   Total Cost     19,500
Source: JKR and Mission.
July 1989
19-Jul-89
Filename: Bridges (Disk 2) No. 39



- 53 -
Table 3.4
AlA"YSIA
................................
HlIHNA? RERADILITATION *50 IIWROVIN!NT PROJECT
Reptacaent of Substandard Brfdges for
Federal Roads in PenInsular Nalaysia
............  .................................................................................................. ......
State                 Route          No. of    Structuro    Estimated Cost
No.        Bridges           o.          CMIMOOOs)
..... ....... ..................... ........................................... ......... .......................... ........ .
Kedabh                      1            2           844/0               700
862/1              200
1            t           8033              W800
PenWs                       I                       724/5            4,000
1            3           735/4              300
747/5              400
mA                 600
Perak                       1            2           S91/0            2,500
662/2              600
5            4           561/9               200
562/9              400
576/S              900
63S/7              600
1            3           522/8               700
5SS/4              100
S73/5              140
Selangor                   1             1           439/3              300
S            3           346/6               600
381/5              350
491/6              300
Neri Sabilon              1             5           265/4              300
280/5              600
28z2/              300
297/1              600
300/2              600
1            1           289/0              600
Nalacca                    5             I           a5eV5               200
ohore                      1             1            29/8              300
5            2            62/1               200
136/2              200
t            5           176/6               160
213/2              550
5S/6              200
52/3              200
118/2              300
3             1          1S9/4               250
Pahang                     2             2           285/4              600
317/9              600
3             I          191/1            3.000
2             1          377/4               500
Trenggean                  3             3           584/0              550
589/6              700
642/1               00
Total                       43                           26.900
.................... ........................................ .... ..................... ..................................
* first Phas
Source: JER end Nissien.
Novener 1989



MALYSIA
NIGNUAY REHASILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
NIGUNAY IMVEMNT SIJPROJECTS
Sub-Project                                 Length         AADT                                           Estimated            Average Cost
and Contract           Descript1on            (in)      (vehletes)              Features                  Cost (MSNW  )      Per lb (oadl.)
I         Kuantan to Baubana Road
Package I           Kuantan Twmn to            2.91       30,000           Upgrading to 4 lanes               26.?                    9.18
Kuantan River                                          and to JKR R6 Standard
One Interchange
One Najor Bridge (2 Lanes)
Package 2           Kuntan Rliver to           8.09       28.000           Upgrading to 4 lanes               28.7                    3.55
Pekan Road                                             and to JKR R6 Standard
One Interchange
Package 3           Pekan Roed to              8.38       18,OO0           Upgrading to 4 Lanes               26.5                    3.16
Besar River                                            and to JKR R6 Standard
One Interchange                                                           U,
One Bridge (4 Lanes)
Subtotal                                      19.38                                                           4t.9                     Z3
II.      Johra Bshru to Koto Tfnmaf Road
Package I           on 12 to Ma 21             9.0        13,000           Upgrading to JKR RS Standard       17.6                    2.0
Package 2           Km 21 to Km 48            27.2        10.000           Upgrading to JKR RS Standard       31.6                    1.2
Subtotal                                      3                                                               49.2                    1.
Total                                         VA
Note: Costs of land acqjpsittin and contingencies are not inctuded.
Source: JKR and Mission
Jure 1989
.



- 55 -
NALAYSIA                                                Table 3.6
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND INPROVEIENT PROJECT                            Page:
Road Safety Inprovement Program of Hazardous Locations
Estimated Total        Status
LOCATION                     PROBLEM                     SOLUTION            Cost   Factor        of Land
(NS'O0O)  Point      Acquisition
1/
1. Butterworth   Alor Setar -   1. Presence of a T-Junction   1. ReLocation of bus stops.   200   609.4   None Required
Sumbong Lima N.S.13.00-14.00    near a bridge.           2. Putting up additional
2. Problem further compounded   traffic signs and proper
by presence of 2 bus stops   road markings.
on both sides of road very 3. Improving juction
near the Juction.           geametrics.
3. Poor road markings.
4. Restricted sight distance
ckae to existing buitding
and trees.
2. utterworth - Alor Setar -   1. Road width insufficient.  1. widening of road and         350   529.2   None Required
-ukit Tenpah 1.S. 6.25-20.50  2. Vertical aligauent poor.   shoulder.
3. Narrow road shoulders.    2. Improvemant of vertical
4. Location of a junction on    aligrnent.
a curve.                 3. Retocation of services.
5. Insufficient road markings 4. Improvement of super-
and roadside furniture,     elevation.
6. Services too near the road.5. Improve sight distance
7. lproper superelevation.    near junction.
6. Putting up eMitional
signings and proper road
markings.
3. Jalan Butterworth - Ipoh -   1. Divided 2 lane road.     1. improve road markings &       750   251.4   Completed
Sg. Sakap. H.S. 17.00-18.50  2. Uneve road surface.         putting up additional
3. Low divider.                road signs.
4. Five Junctions along the  2. Increasing height of
stretch.                    divider (to be more
visible).
3. Improvement of Junction
geometric,.
4. Jalan Sutterworth - Ipoh -   1. Insufficient road width.  1. Widening of road.           800   186.2   To acquire
Nibong Tebal                2. Pubtic services too near  2. Provision of storage lane
road edge.                  for right turning on main
3. Insufficient road signs.    road.
4. Poor juction geometris.  3. To put up adequate road
5. Location of Juctions in     signs.
accident area.           4. Design of proper
T-juction.
5. From N.S. 43.00 to N.S. 45.00.1. Accident area.          1. Upgrading of road             150   180.8   Nlone Required
Ketulpeng Distriet of nulu  2. Winding roads and poor       furniture (such as
Selangor. Selanoor Darul Ehsan  superelevation.             guardrais af sigtboards
and road markings).
6. From Kg. Baru KeluqMV       1. Accident area.            1. Upgrading of road            400   366.4   None Required
Juction to Keluqpan  TOeM   2. Narrow shoulder and poor     furniture (such as
juction                        superelevation.              guardrails, siganoards,
3. Poor location of bus-bay.    and road markings).
4. Improper juction geometrics2. widening of shoulders.
3. Shifting of bus-bay.
4. Improvement of juctfons.
7. Jalan Kelang - Sepang - Kg.  1. Area concerned is cross   1. Upgrading and widening      400   175.2   To acquire
Jenjarm. 11.S. 14.00-14.25     junction.                    of juctions & approach
2. Sight distance restricted    roads with provision
due to existing buildings.   for traffic light
3. Placement of bus stops      installation.



- 56 
NALAYSIA                                                    Table 3.6
NIGIWAY RENABILITATION AND IMPROVENENT PROJECT                                 Page: 2
Road Safety Improvement Program of Htazrdous iawations
Estimated  Total        Status
LOCATION                       PROSLEM                       SOLUTION             cost   Factor          of Land
(NS'OOO)  Point       Acquisition
1/
...............................................................................................................................
too near juntion.          2. Puttirn  up additional
4. Narrow roads.                 wsrnihg signs.
5. Poor road warkings.        3. Remaval of sight
6. Inadequate sign boards.       obstructions if possibte.
4. Put up proper road
carking.
8. Jatan Ketwn  - Sepang,        1. Area concerned are          1. Improving atigrcent of         900    175.2   To acquire
N.S. 18.00 19.00                 T-junctions at M. S. 18.00    stretch between junctions.
and N.S. 19.00.            2. Upgrading of Junctions
2. Poor design of juctions.      with proper chamelization.
3. Poor road markings and     3. Widening of effected
traffic signs.                roads and approaches.
4. Poor superetevation.
9. Ktang - Kuala Selangor - Sabekl. Accident area.              1. Improve horizontat atign-       80O    281.8    To acquire
Senn  from N.S. 20.00-20.50  2. Poor road geometry.             ment and superelevation.
3. Insufficient road furniture2. lidening of road to 3.75m
and road markings.            and road shoulder to 3.0m.
4. Poor horizontal aligment. 3. Provide sufficient road
furniture such as
siuiboards and road markings.
10. Ktang - Kuala Selangor   Sabaki. Presence of mini rouid    1. Improve horizontat align-        300    201.4   None Required
serns N.S. 28.5 to M.S.          about on the main road.        ment and superelevation.
29.001 4.00                   2. Accident area - inadequate 2. WIdening of road to 3.75.
road geometry.                and road ahoulder to 3.0m.
3. Drivers driving from Ktang 3. Provide sufficient road
and Sabak Bernan (north and   furniture such as sign-
south) at excessive speed.    boards end road markings.
4. Insufficient sign boards   4. Replace the roundabout
and road markings.            T-junction with proper
S. Existing street light - not   channelization. Under-
lighted at night.             ground cabte conduits are
6. Roundabout tayout and         necessary to be installed
approach road to the rowud-   for future traffic
about are improper.           signatization.
7. Insufficient sight distance5. Irprove the existing road
due to the ptanting of        superelevation.
shruts  trees on bend      6. Provide sufficient and
around the roundabout.        proper road furniture,
such as road signs, road
markings and others.
11. JaLan Batu Pahat   Air Hitae: 1. Accident area.              1. Improvement of junctiln      2,000   2198.8   To acquire
Eatu Pahat N.s. 76.00         2. Narrow road and improper       and access road.
road access.               2. Upgrading of road to R5
3. Improper junction             standard.
geometrics.                3. Provide proper drainage
4. Poor drainage system.         system.
4. Upgrading of internaL
road in the housing
scheme.
5. Relocation of eLectrical
poles.
12. Jalan Pontian - Batu Pahat;   1. Accident area.              1. Improvement of geocmtrics    1,800   1300.6   To acquire
Satu Pahat, N.S. 73.00-76.00  2. Iqproper juction geometry.   for juction ard road for I
km.
2. Construction of new
pvenent over the new



- 57 -
PALAVSIA                                                      Table 3.6
NIGNYAY REHABILITATiON A"D INPROVNENT PR CJECT                                   Page:  3
..............................................
Road Safety lAprvment Program of lasardeus Locations
...............................................................................................................................
Estimated  Total         Status
LOCATION                        PROLEN                         SOLUTION              Cost    factor         of Land
("IS'OO)   Point       Acquisition
I/
........................................................................................................................ .......
alS ient.
3. laprovement of drainage to
suit the works including
construction & lengthening
of culverts.
4. Construction of road
amrkings   d furniture as
well as other safety
fteatures.
S. Relocation of services and
utilities.
13. Jalan Seresben - Taipin        1. Poor Juction geomatries.   1. Retlivmnmt of horizontal    1.300    693.8    To acquire
(Federal Route 1)              2. Insufficient sight              and vertical profitSle.
intersection to Rantau            distances.                   2. laproveaent of Junction
3. Narrow road.                   g_ itrics.
4. Presence of bridge after   3. Putting up additional
juctfon (000u from             signs and proper road
Jumction).                     mrkings.
5. Inadequate traffic signs
and road markings.
14. Jatan SiSpang Pertang - Kerak 1. T-junction in built-up areal. Upgrading of jwuction               400    491.2    To acquire
-  iopeng Putang              2. T-junction right after          gammetrics with proper
curve.                         chuielization.
3. Inadequate sight distance  2. Reelignment of approach
due to existing building,      road from Kusla Pilah.
4. Poor shoulder.              3. Putting up additional
S. Inadeqltate traffic signs      signs and proper road
and road markins.              markings.
15. Persiopangan Sahau - Keratong 1. Poor Junction geomatrics.  1. Improvement of junction            650        62    None Required
2. Narrow road.                   geometries.
3. Poor sw4erelevation.        2. Widening of rood.
4. Inadequate signing and      3. Ierve mnt of
road markings.                 superelevation.
5. Putting op additional
traffic signs nd proper
rood markings.
S. Improvement of sight
distanee.
16. Kuala Trengganu - Kota  haru  1. Very poor vertical and        1. Widening and reducing          1500    288.4    To acquire
from N.S. 12.50-13.S0             horizontal aligrment.           sharp bends of road
according to RS standard.
2. Iaprove the vertical
atlfgment.
3. loproved horizontal
atignment.
4. Provide proper drainage
swtem.
5. Provide now culvert to
accocmdate drainage system.
6. Provide guardrail for the
safety of road users.
17. Kuala Brang/Kusla Ping         1. Poor sight distance.         1. Widening rood and icprove    2,000        261    To acquire
Jtmction at h.S. 23.50 Kuala  2. Poor horizontal end              the vertical I horizontal
Trengganu - Kota Ohmru Road       vertical aligcmnts of the    alignment as to provide
existing junction.             gOad sight distance.
2. Design Jurction to RS



- 58 -
MALAYS1A                                                    Table 3.6
NIONVAY RENAB1LtTATIOM *"1 IMPROVWEEUT PROCJC                                 Page    4
Road Safety Irpwovement Program of Hazardous Locations
Estimated Total         Status
LOCATION                       PROBLEM                       SOLUTION             Cost    factor         of Land
(MStOOD)  Point       Acquisition
1/
...............................................................................................................................
standard.
3. Prowida peeper drainage
system.
4. Provide new culvert to
accomodate the drainge
system.
18. Kuala Trenggm - Kuantut Roadi. Traffic congestion at the  1. Roundsabout to be replaced        650        56    Coqpleted
(Jalan Kuabng Kurus/Jalan        roundabout.                    with a ducaelited T*
Jaker Cuka1 Town)             2. Narrow road with no            junctf0n priority to the
provision of shoulder.        straight through traffic
3. Inadequate road markings      from Kuantan - Kuela
and road signs.               Trengganu and vfcr versa.
2. Upgrading and widenirn of
road shoulder.
3. Upgrading of road morkings
si road signs.
4. Relocation of services and
utfitites.
19. Jalan da Omar/Jalan Sulaimn/ 1. Poor Junction geometrics.  1. Upgrading of Junction from   1.150         56    To acquire
Jalan Air Puteh junction.    2. Inadequate road markings        a double T-jumntin into a
Chuka1 Town                      and traffic signs.             cross junction.
3. Inadequate traffic signet 2. Iqroveuent of drainage
phasing.                      system.
3. Redesign of traffic signal.
4. Upgrading of traffic signs
end proper lane markings.
20. Jalan Melaka - Uuw a     Siepang 1. Narrow road.             1. Videning of road and          1,400    262.6   To acquire
S&rkam (BT 11.50)             2. Cross-Jumctfon.                iq pesvment of Junction
3. Poor 3umetion geometrics.    geometries.
4. Restricted sight distance. 2. Putting up addifftial
roed signs and proper lane
markings.
3. Relocation af services and
utilities.
4. Putting up street lighting.
21. Jatan Retaka - Muar   Sifpang 1. Poor junction geometrics.  1. eproevinnt of IumctIon         1,200    100.4   To acquire
Duyong, N.S. 3.00             2. Narrow road.                   geometries.
3. Inadequate signing. and    2. Widening of approach road
lane marking.                 to lunction (both sifds).
4. Road surface uncelating.  3. Putting up additional
5. poor sight distance due       signs ard proper road
to existing buildings.        markings.
pm 44. Overlaying of roads.
5. Relotation of services.
22. Jalan Melaka -uir Sicaenp   1. Junction right after curve.1. Ilprovement of Junction         2,000    207.8   To acquire
Kandang, M.S. 4.00            2. Poor junction geemetrics.      geametries.
3. lnadeqluate signings and   2. Uifdning of approach
lane markings.                roads to Junttion.
4. Road supeteltvation is poor3. Putting up additional
S. Poor sight distance dce to    signs end proper road
existing road.                markings.
6. Narrow road.               4. Overlaying of roads.
5. Relocation of services.
23. Jalan Kualt Tranggam  - Kota  1. Road surface unoen.         1. To impfrve vertical and      6.000       294    Completed
Bharu KM 3.2 Km   12.0 KM     2. Marrow carriageway.            horizontal aligm  nt.



- 59 -
AL"YSIA                                                       Table 3.6
...............                                               .............
NHIASUY REHABILITATION AND INPROWMNT PROIECT                                      Page: 5
..............................................
Road Safety Ilprovement Program of Hazardous Locations
Estimated  Total         Status
LOCATION                        PROLE                          SOWUTIOC              Cost    Factor         of Land
("Slo0o)   Point       Acquisition
1/
...............................................................................................................................
3. fradequate horizontal and  2. Put up adequate signs
vertical aligenoet.            ard road marking.
4. Insufficient road signs
and markings.
S. Heavy traffic flow.
24. Jalan Ipoh - Kuala Lumpur      1. Heavily trafficked road.   1. Iqrove vertical and             1.400      198    Coopleted
KM 12.80 - KM 16.00            2. Inadequate horitontal           horizontal atlireAnt.
profIle.                    2. Put up additional signs
3. Inadequate sight distance.    and proper road markings.
4. House close to road.
25. Jalan Kuala LuWr  Ipch         1. Junction located on curve. 1. lIprovent of vertical            1.000      165    Completed
(Sip2ng Kuala Kubu Baru)      2. Inadequate sight distance.    and horizontal profile.
3. Inadaquate traffic signs   2. Putting up adequate traffic
aid road markings.             sign and proper lane
4. Location of gas station        marking.
very near to the Junction. 3. Improvmnt of Junction
5. poor Junction geometrice.      geomtries.
26. Jalan Ipoh   Kuala Kangsar    1. Village area (Houses near  1. Iprovmmnt of vertical             1.200      130    Coapleted
Km 33-K  34                       the road).                      and hortzontal profile.
2. Heavy traffic flow.         2. Putting up adequate
3. Minding road.                  traffic signs and proper
4. auerous acess.                  lane markings.
5. Poor geonwtrics.            3. Control aceess (provide
service road).
27. Jalan Ipoh   Kuala Lupur       1. Sharp corners with limited 1. Realisment of existing           1800       492    Conpleted
KM 35.4-KM 40.2 (Route 1)         sight distance.                 road at locations with
2. Ltndulating vertical profile   sharp corners (to be
with poor sight distance.      identified exactly after
enineering survey) and
improvement on vertical
curaes with adverse
gradient.
2. Improve, widen and
ehabilitate shoulders of
those sections of road
with poor side table and
drainage structure,
especially those sections
naming along rolling
terrain.
3. Installation of more
promiinent warning signs.
28. Jalan lachang   Malim KM       1. Numerous access, both        1. Upgrade the road to a          3.000      321    On going
1.6-KM 5.0 (Route 19)             legal and otherwise found       deal 2-lan  carraigeway
along this section of the      since the road is a major
rcad.                          arterial to Melaka taem
2. Almost all junctiorns are      with major frontage
sub-standard and do ot         development.
comply to JOR standard      2. Minimize junction
cwing serious hazards to    requirement and provide
road users.                    suitably designed
signalized Junetion at
appropriate locations.
29. Jalan Simpeng Re_ega  Km       1. Major Jutmtion at sharp    1. Upgrade the main trunk           1,800      228    Coamleted
57.6-KM 84.8 (Route 1)            curve in the heart of a         read (Route 1) to a dual
toem.                          2 lae  carraigeway along



- 60 -
MALAYSIA                                                    Table 3.6
HIGINAY REHABILITATION AND I1PROVENENT PROJECT                                 Page: 6
Road Safety Ioprovemant Program of Hazardous tocations
.................................................................................................... I...................
Estimated  Total        Status
LOCATION                       PROBLEN                       SOLUTION             Cost    Factor         of Land
(0*000)  Point        Acquisition
I/
...............................................................................................................................
the town area.
30. Serecban - Port Dickson K     1. Windding and narrow roads. 1. Improvement of wvrtical        3,000      272   On going
SIN 11                        2. Poor superelevation.           and horizontal ali8nmmnt.
3. Inadequate sight distance. 2. Putting Up adequate
4. Insufficient road signs       signing and proper road
and road markings.            markings.
S. Numerous access roads.    3. Proper access design.
31. Sereotan   Taqpin IN 9-KiN 13  1. Poor elignment control.    1. loprovement of vertical       2,000      166    On going
2. Narrow road.                  and horizontal eligrnents.
3. Inedaquwte signs.          2. Putting up adequate
4. Poor superelevation.          signings.
32. Persimpansan Di IN 30.4 Jatan 1. Ioadequate sight distance. 1. Itprovement of vertical          400      164    Coapleted
Kulai                         2. Junction on vertical slope.  ad horizontal alignoents.
3. Inadequate signs and road  2. Putting adequate traffic
markins.                      signs and proper road
4. Junction in builtt-p area.   markings.
S. Poor geometrics.           3. Praopse signalization of
Junction.
33. Jalan Kapela Batas - Jitre IN 1. Narrow road.                1. Wtdening of road.             2,000      235    Completed
20.8 - K  26.4                2. Heavy traffic.              2. Putting up adequate
3. Houes near road.              traffic signs and proper
4. Inadequate signs and road     road markings.
markings.
34. Jalan  telaka - Nuar (SioPan   1. Presence of T-junction in  1. Upgrading of junction           500             To acquire
sg. Usbhi)                       built tp area.                 geometrics with proper
2. Restricted sight distance     chasmelization.
c-- to existing building. 2. Widening of road.
3. Narrow road shoulder.      3. Putting up additional
4. High traffic volue.           traffic signs and proper
road markings.
35. Jatln Nelaka   Nwuar (Sliuan   1. Presence of staggered      1. Upgrading of junction           800             To acquire
Jalan Parit Putat & Simpeng      T-junction.                    geomatrics with proper
Jalan Tanah Nerah)            2. Poor sight distance.           chalmelization.
3. Narrow road shoulder.      2. Widening of road.
4. High traffic volume.       3. Putting up additional
traffic signs  d  proper
road markings.
36. salon Sereaban   Tanpin       1. Accident area.              1. tmproving horizontal          1,200             To acquire
(IN 32.1-IO  33.4)            2. Poor horizontal aligrant.    aligusnt end
3. Poor supervision.             super-elevation.
2. Provide sufficient and
proper road furniture.
37. Jalan Kuale Trenggame    Kota  1. Accident area.             1. lIprove horizontal and        1,700    285.8   Mone Required
Sharu (IN 27'IN 33)           2. insufficient road width.       verticle aligments.
2. Putting up additional
traffic signs and proper
road mrkings.
38. Jalan Kuala Trengganu - Kota  1. Accident area.              1. lmprove horizontal and          300    254.2    Mone Required
Sharu (It 40Km 41)            2. insufficient road width.       verticle alignments.
2. Putting up additional
traffic signs and proper
roed mrkings.



- 61 -
VALAYSIA                                                      Table 3.6
........ ............ ~~~~~.............
HIGHWY REHWILITATIN UI  lPOVEIENT  PlotMECT                                       Pae:  7
..............................................
Road Safety lsprvemnt Prprm of hazrdous Locations
Eatimted  Total          Status
LOCATION                        PULEN                          SOLWTION              Cost    Factor         of Land
(S'000)   Point        Acquisition
1/
...................................................................................................................I............
39. Jalan Kusla Trengaa  -          1. Accident area.              1. lorizental realigomnt I        1,400              To acquire
Kuantan (KN 122.28-EN 127.11) 2. Insufficient road width.          eOifn  sharp bends
3. Sharp band.                    according to RS Standard.
2. Putting up traffic signs
and proper read markings.
40. Jalan Kuala Trenganu-          1. Accident area.               1.  orizantal realiwuent  ,    1800          286    on going
Kuantan (IE  36-0N41)          2. Insufficient road width.        redfnr  sharp benca
3. Sharp bud.                     according to RS Standard.
2. Putting up traffic signs
ad prepar road markings.
41. Nemperbaili Persiqman Di   1. Existing small roendabout  1. To repiace existinr                    20      t        Nomn Required
Siqpang Labis, Johor              hes low c pacity and            roundatbut with properly
frequently causes safety       dhannalized junction.
hazard.
42. Neaperboili Pers1ipengan Di   1. Existing Kulai team has no 1. To provide suitably                 500              None Required
Esader Kulai, Jcoer               proper traffic mwagement        designed medians and
and pedestrian facilities.    pedestrian crossing
2. Haphazardly located            fa*clities.
parking are  has created   2. Signalized jumction.
problem on road safety for 3. Relocation of bus laybys
through-road traffic.          and parking areas.
Estimated Total Cost            53.300
. . . . . . .  . . .    .. .  . . . .   . . .  . . .    .. .  . . .  . . . .   .  ..  . . .   . . . .  . . .  . . .   . . .  . . .
I/ Each of the 267 identified hazardous locations were rated as to dagree of hazard (factor points) and the 42 highest
priority sites were included in the project.
Source: JKR
July 1989
19-Jul-89
Filename: Locations Disk 2. go. 47



- 62 -
MALAYSIA                          Table 3.7
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road Safety Improvement Program
Overhead Pedestrian Bridges
_.  _.. ... _.. ... ..... ............. ... ....., . .    . .... .. . .@..
Estimated
State                             Number of          Cost
Locations        (M$ '000)
Kedah                                    3             1,040
Penang                                   2              360
Perak                                    4             1,020
Selangor                                 3             1,070
Negri Sembilan                           2              460
Johore                                   8             2,100
Pahang                                   3              850
Trengganu                                1              300
Federal Territory of Labuan              1              400
Total                          27             7,600
Source: JKR
June 1989
19-Jul-89
Filename: RdSafety (Disk 2)



- 63 -                      Table 3.8
- 634 -___
Page 1 of 4
MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ACTION PLAN FOR ROAD SAFETY IMPROVEMENT
I. The HPU, with the assistance of a Japanese road safety expert who has
been assigned to their office since April 1989 under the Colombo Plan,
will carry out a long-ter-m road safety engineering program. The main
framework for this program covers the following areas:
a. Develop suitable methodologies for the analysis of road accidents.
The methodologies adopted must take into consideration the expertise
and trained manpower at various levels.
b. Develop, in general, a list of immediate measures which can be
implemented under the normal road maintenance program without
incurring any additional expenses. Similarly, a list of possible low
cost engineering measures and long term engineering measures (usually
very costly) will be developed.
c. A time frame will be drawn to cover the whole spectrum of activities
under this program--from collecting of road accident data to
monitoring the effectiveness of the improvement project. This time
frame is estimated to be about 10 years. The main activities in the
framework are deiineated below.   The immediate measures mentioned
refer to those minor works which are implemented under the normal road
maintenance program.   The long term measures are those which are
expected to incur rather high capital outlay, such as upgrading of the
road, signalization, major junction treatment, geometric changes, etc.
d. Develop a financial programme to identify the sources of funding for
each project.   The likely source of funding could be one of the
following: maintenance grant, local project vote, or foreign funding.
e. A training programme will be implemented within this period. Training
will be given to personnel in the department, which include engineers,
technical assistants and technicians. The details of the training
will be worked out under this long-term program.
f. Road safety findings will be published or presented at seminars,
workshops, conferences and courses both locally and internationally.



- 64 -                       Table 3.8
Page 2 of 4
Activity                                       Begin             End
1. Review the following:
- existing road conditions
- accident statistics
- financial situation
- vehicle composition
- type of effective engineering
measures                                 Jun. 1989       Nov. 1989
2. Comparison with the road safety
programmes in Japan                        Jun. 1989       Nov. 1989
3.  List possible road safety measures         Jun. 1989       Nov. 1989
4. Analyze accident data using System
BS(T)                                      Nov. 1989       Dec. 1989
5. Develop methodologies for:
- analyzing road accidents
- monitoring the implementation of
road safety projects
- performing economic and financial
evaluation of road safety improvement
projects
- feasibility study of road safety
improvement projects                     Nov. 1989       May  1991
6. Implementation of proposed road safety
projects (42) financed under the
proposed project (see Table 3.6)           Jan. 1991       Jun. 1993
7. Monitoring effectiveness of the above
improvement financed by the proposed
loan                                       Oct. 1991       May  1994
8. Performing specific research on road
safety                                     Jan. 1989       Dec. 1991
9. Arranging for increased funding for
road safety improvements                   Jan. 1989       Dec. 1989
10. Implementation of remaining identified
road safety projects based on the third
exercise                                   Jan. 1993       Dec. 1995



- 65 -                         Table 3.8
Page 3 of 4
Activity                                        Begin            End
11. Monitoring effectiveness of road
safety projects above                       Jan. 1993       Dec. 1998
12. Training of personnel                       Jan. 1989        Dec. 1993
13. Fourth exercise to identify high accident
areas on the Federal road network.          Oct. 1992        Dec. 1993
14. Implementation of road safety projects
identified based on the fourth exercise
above, (a) Immediate                        Nov. 1994       May  1996
(b) Long Term                        Oct. 1994        May  1998
15. Monitoring effectiveness of road
safety projects above                       Jun. 1995       Dec. 1999
16. Fifth exercise to identify high accident
areas on the Federal road network           Jul. 1995        Dec. 1996
17. Implementation of road safety projects
identified based on the fifth exercise
above, (a) Immediate                        Nov. 1997       May  1999
(b) Long Term                        Jan. 1998        Dec. 1999
18. HPU to provide expertise and technical
assistance to the State and District
JKR's in road safety engineering for
State road network                          Jan. 1989       Dec. 1999
19. Provide engineering expertise and know-how
to other agencies in the field of road
safety                                      Jan. 1989       Dec. 1999



- 66 -                      Table 3.8
Page 4 of 4
II.  Apart from ensuring that roads are designed, constructed and maintained
to a safe standard, JKR's Roads Branch also will continue to undertake
projects concerned with road safety. Some of these are as follows:
a. Localized improvement of 42 high accident areas identified by HPU
under the proposed project.
b. Construction of overhead pedestrian crossings under the proposed
project.
c. Replacement of timber bridges which are sub-standard under the
proposed project.
d. Minor improvement works to road intersections using local funding.
e. Installation of traffic signals at identified road intersections.
f. Traffic management in smaller towns on the federal road network, for
example Kulai and Jerteh.
g. Resurfacing and rehabilitation of federal roads.
h. Installation of additional road signs and road pavement markings.
i. Study into the effectiveness of the yellow transverse bars on safety.
J. Study into the usage of road studs on road safety--especially during
night-time.
k. A comparison study into the effectiveness of post-mounted and
cantilevered warning signs.
1. Study into the guidelines for local speed limits.
Source: HPU, JKR and Mission
June 1989



MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REIIABILITATIOM AND I"PROMENT PROJECT
Summary of Technical Assistance
Financing source
Ite  Descrimtion               HuiNber of     Man-Months       E s t i ma ted      Proposed          Other
Experts                        Cost (OSM)          Proleet           Scurce
Mafntenance Imurovemant PrOaram
Pavement Management          Assist  In  further  development  and            1                  24            0.50            X
System                     dissemination of computerized model for
pavement mnagement.
Bridge Manaeement             1. Assist in formulating, establishing,
System                           instituting   and   operating    a
coqputeri zed bridge management system
including training of JKR staff fn
its use, operatfon and maintenance.          4                  72            2.00            X
2. Provide necessary hardware, software                     As required          0.85            X
and supplies.
3. Assist in development of new series          1                  12            0.25            X
of standard bridge designs to conform
to new bridge loading requirements
derived from increase in allowable
axle loads.
Training                     Assist training institute at Bangi in            1                  24            0.75            X
formulating and instituting improved
and   expanded   road   and   bridge
maintenance    and    construction
supervision training courses.
Construction                 Provide training in proper contruction           2                  48            1.50                              World  Bank  Lwnd
Supervision                  supervision methods and systems. both                                                                               Settlement
formal and on-the-job, to JKR staff                                                                                Infrastructure
engaged  in  construction  supervision                                                                             Project    Loan
work for construction and maintenance                                                                              2642-MA
of roads and bridges. Assist in the
establishment and initial operation of
a   Maintenance   and   Construction
SupervIsion  Monitoring  Unit  within
JKR's headquarters maintenance unit.
0o



Financina source
Jim                                      Descriotion                  Number of W5onthl              E  tima t ed       Proposed          ther
Experts                      cost ("SM)         Proiect
ofahwav Platnino Un1t
Transport Planine           Assist HPU in its new wider role as       1                    36            0.85          X
coordinator of all road investments
amn   the federal awencies and the
states, including liaison with mOT an
overall transport planning by providing
advice,  safstance  end trafning  to
concerned HPU staff. Also assist HPU
in  reviewing  cost  recovery  am.n
transport  modes,  with  particular
concentration on roads.
Road Safety                 Assist NPM  to set up and operate a       1                    24           0.75            x
permanent road safety monitoring and
analysis unit utilizing a cowputerized
data base including training of HPU
staff on-the-job and by means of forml 
courses at overseas Institutions  in
traffic  engineering and road safety
design.
Roads Branch
lighway Design             Assist JKR's Roads Branch to establish     1                     9           0.27           X
a full-fledged CADm system integrated
with the equipment presently being used
by carrying out a study to determine
the needs In terms of hardware and
software   and   recomending   the
appropriate faciitites tn be acquired.
Provide   assistance   in   obtaining
suitable hardware and software and in
establishing and implementing the CADD
System  includin3  training  of  JKR
perswmel in its use.
Enviromental lopaect        Assist JKR's Roads Branch to establish    1                     3           0.08           X
Studies                   procedures and methodologfes for ffeld
investigations and analysis  of the
environmental   impact   of   road
construction  and  maintenance  work,
including training of JKR staff.                             



FinancinG source
Jim                                        Deriation                       Number of      Nan-onths        E s t I ma ted      Pro osed          Other
Experts                        Cost (N9Ln          Prodect           Soure
FelLooship. Training         To iwpove capabitity of JKR and HPU                          As required           1.00           X
and Study Tours             staff in mintenance prograring and
operations,    in    construction
supervision. In the use of computerized
design and drafting system and in
traffic engineering and road safety
iatters, inctuding the evaluation and
research activities in the road sector
being carried out by the JKR Training
and Research Institute.
TOTAL PROJECT                                                                                    252           8.80
Other    Financing
Sources                                                                                           48           1.50
Total We Financing
under Proposed Loan                                                                              la                                                                  0
0.



HALAYSIA
NZGIAY REMABLETAttON AND IMPROVEMENT POJECT
Stmrv of Consultina Services
Lu Aimri4tl                                                                      an-ponths                       Estimated Cost (MS mfllion)
Malntenance Iwovement Proaran
Roed RehabiLitation and Strengthening         Provide   construction   supervision                   1200                                  9.00
Program                                        services,    including    laboratory
testing, for eight rood sections
totalling about 562 km.
Replacement of Substandard Bridges            Provide   design   and   construction                   4C0                                  2.90
supervision services for approxiSatety
25 out of a total of 43 bridges to be
replaced and construction siuprviston
services onty for about half of the
resminder.
Nishw.7 Improvement Subprojects.              Provide design review and construction                 1t50                                  8.50
supervision    services,    Including
laboratory testing, for two highway
Improvement   subproJects   to   be
constructed in five sections totalling
about 56 km.
TOTAL                                                                                    2750                                 20.4
Note: Contingencies not included.
"I@
*  -
0 
o S
0.V



- 71 -                                   Table 3.10
MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION ANO IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
..._.   ...........   .................................   .........
Cash Flow Requirements
(USS Million Equivalent)
.......................... ... __......... .............. .............................. ____........... __._......... _...............
------------------   Detail Cost by Years    ------------------
Project Component                                  1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994   Total
1.        Civil Works                                         0.19    17.62    71.96    69.10    45.27          3.06   207.20
_.__- -- --                                     ......   .---_._     -- --     ...... .  ....... ... ......  ------ __...... . ..__. ... ..... ... .........
A. Maintenance Improvement Program                    0.00      0.00    27.21    30.74    25.96         0.00    83.92
8. Reptacement of Tinber and
Substandard Bridges                                0.19      4.53      7.32      7.32      2.26      0.00    21.62
- Timber Bridges                                   0.10      2.01      2.62      3.23      1.13      0.00      9.10
- Substandard Bridge                               0.09      2.51     4.70       4.09      1.12      0.00    12.52
C. Truck Weight Control Program                       0.00      2.92      5.56      2.50      0.84      0.00    11.82
D. Highuay Iprovements                               0.00      8.15    21.59    20.40    11.12         0.00    61.25
- Johore  haru - Kota Tinggi Road                 0.00       1.76     8.65      9.77       2.84      0.00    23.02
- Kuantan - Gambang Road                           0.00     6.39    12.94    10.62         8.28      0.00    38.23
E. Road Safety Improvement Program                    0.00      2.03    10-28       8.13      5.10      3.06    28.60
it.       Equipment                                           0.00      2.39      1.53      2.19      1.87      0.00      7.98
------......   .......  ...... ---- ... ...   ......   ....... 
Weighbridges                                       0.00      1.30      1.53      2.19      1.87      0.00      6.90
Computer Hardware & Software                       0.00      1.09      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.09
III.      Consulting Services, Technical
Assistance and Training                            0.00      3.32      3.73      3.92      3.10      0.00    14.07
i _.. ._.................................   . ..........._ ......   ......   ......... ......   ......... ......   ------.............. ... ...
- Consulting Services                              0.00      2.23     2.76       2.87      1.96      0.00      9.82
- Technical Assistance & Training                  0.00      1.09      0.97      1.05      1.14      0.00      4.25
Totat Cost                                         0.19    23.33    77.22    75.21    50.24          3.06   229.25
===Z==   =z:&U=z    CU=CCZ   U=w===   =U=WC`  =5 5   C=Z
Land Acquisition                                   0.00      7.95      1.99      0.00      0.00      0.00      9.94
Total Project Cost                              0.19    31.29    79.21    75.21    50.24          3.06   239.20
U=SUIU   8uu        3Sg       c=z;  a==    =un=   ==rz
..... .......___.____....................__.._._  .__._............._._._.__...................  ____________..............
Source: Mission and JKR Estimates.
November 1989



i-- ----- -                                                   ----                -            - - -
1 s   |   *  T   -  -  -                                              - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
l~~~~~~~~~~~ *5                                                     .[    W          W   .a   a E        i  i. 
.,,N,,     I    lEW                          g    ig                        l,,O,UW  4'I-l
- - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -
-        -                    -      -  -      -                                                          X,                        W
U.                                         'K~~%
:     :                                                                                    A
-                           --       -     __  __  __                  -             _ - 
.0.            -         - ~        -               ----                   ----                
-h  S    :           - ----- -----  -----  ----                             - --  --  --    ----                 - - -   -



- 73 -
NALAYSIA                                Teble 3.12
NtZOJIY RERAILITATIUO AND NPRoVsENENT PROJECT
....... ............ ...............
Schedule of Estimated Di0bursments
(USS Nittin)
............................... .............................................................. -----
Sank Fiscat Year                Seoester  Cumulative   Cumulative        Sank Profile (%)
and Quarter Ending             Disburse-   Disburse-        ()           ........... . --
wnants       mnt.                    Countty       Sector
... .....   ., .... ............. ... ...... . ......, .....
Estimated Date of Effectivuiss: January 31. 1990.
FY90
..........
June 30, 1990                         2.0          2.0          2.S          1.4          1.2
FY91
..........
December 31, 1990                     3.0          5.0
June 30, 1991                         5.0         10.0         12.0          7.3          6.9
FY92
..........
December 31, 1991                     5.0         15.0
June 30, 192                        10.0         2S.0         30.0         17.6         17.1
FY93
,..........
Decerber 31, 1992                    10.0         35.0
June 30, 1993                        20.0         55.0         66.0         32.4         31.5
FY94
..........
Deceiber 31, 1993                    20.0         75.0
June 30, 1994                         6.0         81.0         97.0         49.S         48.3
FY95
December 31, 1996                     2.2         83.2        100.0
June 30, 1995                                                               66.0         6C.8
FY96
..........
Oecember 31, 1995
June 30, 1996                                                               79.5         79.3
FY97
..........
Deceaber 31, 1996
June 30, 1997                                                               90.0         90.5
FY98
..........
December 31, 1997
June 30, 1998                                                               97.4         96.3
FY99
..........
December 31, 1998
June 30, 1999                                                              100.0        100.0
Closing Date: June 30, 1995.
............................................................................
1/ Early disbursements reflect retroactive financing of initial works.
Source: Sank Staff
November 1989



*    W-1 N                                                
---------------------------_:
, #tt|$t0o!N4 0-4@.IP-    '~   6  ''' 
*                                                0 a0   O; -               :
S4                                                            1 S 4
*                                            3 i= 0                                                
:   *                                                                 0  : 0:  
*------------------------- 4---
* 6                                                                  0    0-C-6
,* g~|o|*g29Xb$SSll*l 4- - C- 6
---------______________                                                 ,,    .
* 0t _ N00 N082             a          gt$         ^    g ,             B!
.*        ..       .J ..         II  I. Zlpx        .    .        0                                 4
.                                            .1,o-, 0lt w 8fi;i;t8 8  '    830.-                             
- -  -   -        - - -  -  ---- -       -  -  - -  -  - -  -  --      -
______________-                                 ___     _     ---- 0  -f  0



Table 4.]1
- 75 -                            Page 2 of 6
MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION & IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
PACKAGE A: KUANTAN-GAMBANG
DISCOUNT
YEAR        BENEFIT      COST        BENEFIT      COST
1989        0            17700       0            17700
1990        0            20000       0            18181.8
1991        0            14000       0            11570.2
1992        10201.6      360         7664.61      270.473
1993        11017.4      369         7525.03      245.885
1994        11899.0      360         7388.34      223.532
1995        12850.7      360         7253.89      203.211
1996        13878.9      360         7122.07      184.737
1997        14989.4      360         6992.67      167.943
1998        15439.4      360         6547.81      152.675
1999        15901.8      360         6130.83      138.796
2000        16379.4      360         5740.88      126.178
2001        16870.7      360         5375.53      114.707
2002        17376.7      360         5033.41      104.279
2003        17898.1      360         4713.13      94.7993
2004        18434.9      360         4413.17      86.1811
2005        18988.2      360         4132.39      78.3465
2006        19557.8      360         3869.41      71.2241
2007        20144.4      360         3623.15      64.7492
2008        20748.7      360         3392.58      58.8629
2009        21371.3      360         3176.71      53.5117
2010        22012.1      360         2974.52      48.647
2011        22673.0      360         2785.29      44.2246
IRR       -21%
NPV       -$55870.4
BCR       -2.117
FYRR      -19.5%



Table 4.1
Page 3 of 6
- 76 -
MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT & RAHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
PACKAGE B: KUANTAN-GAMLIANG ROAD IMPROVEMENT
DISCOUNT
YEAR      BENEFIT          COST        BENEFIT           COST
1989      0                7500        0                7500
1990      0                8500        0                7727.27
1991      0                6000        0                4958.68
1992      5097.84          440         3830.08          330.579
1993      5709.64          440         3899.76          300.526
1994      6394.88          440         3970.72          273.205
1995      7162.11          440         4042.82          248.369
1996      8021.41          440         4116.25          225.79
1997      8948.29          440         4191.24          205.263
1998      9253.4           440         3924.34          186.603
1999      9531.25          440         3674.71          169.639
2000      9817.07          440         3440.82          154.217
2001      10111.5          440         3221.84          140.198
2002      10415.2          440         3016.91          127.452
2003      10727.0          440         2824.75          115.866
2004      11049.3          440         2645.11          105.333
2005      11380.9          440         2476.82          95.7568
2006      11721.9          440         2319.12          87.0517
2007      12073.8          440         2171.58          79.1379
2008      12436.0          440         2033.39          71.9435
2009      12809.5          440         1904.05          65.4031
2010      13193.2          440         1782.8           59.4575
2011      13589.0          440         1669.35          54.0522
IRR       -250
NPV       -$37874.7
BCR       -2.625
FYRR      -22.7%



Table 4.1
77 -                                 Page 4 of 6
MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION & IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
JOHOR BAHRU-KOTA TINGGI MS 25.5-38.0 ROAD IMPROVEMENT
DISCOUNT
YEAR      BENEFIT            COST        BENEFIT      COST
1989      0                  6000        0            6000
1990      0                  6000        0            5454.55
1991      0                  5875        0            4855.37
1992      4977.46            572.75      3739.64      430.316
1993      5426.77            572.75      3706.56      391.196
1994      5915.76            572.75      3673.22      355.633
1995      6446.33            572.75      3638.79      323.302
1996      7027.88            572.75      3606.42      293.911
1997      7659.81            572.75      3573.36      267.192
1998      8041.95            572.75      3410.57      242.902
1999      8446.68            572.75      3256.56      220.82
2000      8867.99            572.75      3108.18      200.745
2001      9312.2             572.75      2967.15      182.496
2002      9776.6             572.75      2831.93      165.905
2003      10264.9            572.75      2703.07      150.823
2004      10779.2            572.75      2580.45      137.112
2005      11317.7            572.75      2463.07      124.647
2006      11884.2            572.75      2351.23      113.316
2007      12480.6            572.75      2244.75      103.014
2008      13104.4            572.75      2142.67      93.6492
2009      13759.1            572.75      2045.2       85.1356
2010      14448.1            572.75      1952.38      77.396
2011      15169.1            572.75      1863.46      70.36
IRR       -27%
NPV       -$37518.9
BCR       -2.843
FYRR      -26.9%



Table 4.1
- 78 -                          Page 5 of 6
NAIAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION & IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
JOHOR BAHRU-KOTA TINGGI MS 13.0-25.5 kOAD IMPROVEKENT
DISCOUNT
YEAR       BENEFIT    COST       BENEFIT    COST
1989       0          6000       0          6000
1990       0          6000       0          5454.55
1991       0          6463       0          5341.32
1992       7970.79    572.75     5988.58    430.316
1993       8622.97    572.75     5889.61    391.196
1994       9331.73    572.75     5794.27    355.633
1995       10095.2    572.75     5698.5     323.302
1996       10923.6    572.75     5605.54    293.911
1997       11818.2    572.75     5513.28    267.192
1998       12409.2    572.75     5262.7     242.902
1999       13028.0    572.75     5022.87    220.82
2000       13679.5    572.75     4794.58    200.745
2001       14365.4    572.75     4577.27    182.496
2002       15085.3    572.75     4369.66    165.905
2003       15839.2    572.75     4170.94    150.823
2004       16631.1    572.75     3981.35    137.112
2005       17461.6    572.75     3800.16    124.647
2006       18336.1    572.75     3627.7     113.316
2007       19252.2    572.75     3462.68    103.014
2008       20215.7    572.75     3305.43    93.6429
2009       21225.9    572.75     3155.03    85.1356
2010       22287.0    572.75     3011.65    77.396
2011       23402.3    572.75     2874.88    70.36
IRR      -37%
NPY      -$69081
BCR      -4.315
FYRR     -41.8%



- 79-                                         Table 4.1
Page 6 of 6
_______________________________
O                      IaN  as   k*  2% Ws            8  otS
*I    f-     - - -    -f- - - -    - -   N-        N -0  N- - 
0               1~- ~ u                           0.
C 2                  - 0
R fl~~~~~~~~ 0                                                     4E NE    I  U 1e1       #
-             ~     ~     ~      a~2- --- - - - - - - - - -  -    -     -
0   g  0      0         :          ^    o         e 0  **         o    00
'a         C
-                             '   *^a   ' d' 
C                                                        -r---- - - - - - - - - - - -   -
5    i   2    ^     S             M%         b%             VW  In
M              i
-----
c i                           I                    HI ls
0. _                                                   - . ee     
a.            I                         I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __-



- 80 -
Annex 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TRUCK WRIGHT CONTROL PROGRAM
1. One of the main factors causing the rate of pavement deterioration to
accelerate in recent years in Malaysia has been the increasing prevalence of
truck overloading. The economic incentive to overload trucks, coupled with the
lack of enforcement of regulations, has resulted in widespread flouting of the
law related to maximum truck laden weights.   In addition, under present
regulations, truck operating licenses specify not only the number of trucks to
be used on a given route but also the type and size of equipment that is
permitted. The size of conventional vehicles is generally restricted to two or
three axles with trailers limited to a length of 27 feet. In the present day
commercial climate, these vehicles are often too small to be economical and
overloading such vehicles by as much as 100% in not unknown. The maximum laden
weight limit, under present regulations, is 22 tons, with a 9 ton axle loading
limit for single axles and 14 tons for a tandem axle.  Axle load surveys
conducted recently showed that over 70% of the trucks weighed were substantially
overloaded. Since the damage to pavements caused by trucks is proportional to
the fourth power of the wheel load, the damage to roads due to overloading is
exponentially more than that which would result from increased numbers of legally
loaded vehicles.
2.   Recognizing the seriousness and extent of the truck overloading
problem, the Government embarked on a comprehensive truck overloading and
pavement and bridge capacity study, called the Axle Load Study, through a
consultant firm, covering about 2250 km of federal trunk roads and 966 bridges
in Peninsular Malaysia to determine, among other things: (i) the condition of
the roads and bridges on the most heavily travelled roads of the federal highway
network, with special attention to pavement conditions; (ii) the most economical
combination of axle loadings, vehicle configurations and pavement designs so as
to create an optimum condition in the vehicle-pavement system with respect to
cost, durability and level of service; and (iii) the optimum approach to road
maintenance and pavement management in order to identify the most cost-effective
maintenance Interventions, including types of treatment and timing, for various
traffic densities and pavement conditions. Subsequently, the Government decided
to commission a similar study to cover the federal road network in Sabah and
Sarawak, and this second study is now on-going, being carried out by a consultant
firm. In addition, the Government decided to extend the original study to cover



Annex 1
- 81 -                    Page 2
the rest of the federal trunk road network in Peninsular Malaysia (another 2780
km and about 1180 bridges and culverts), utilizing HPU and JKR staff to carry
out the work. This Phase II Study is now on-going. The original study (called
the Phase I Study) has now been completed and Is presently under review by the
Government. If its major conclusions and recommendations are accepted, as is
likely, it is expected to lead to a revision upward to allowable weights,
dimensions and axle loadings for trucks, which will imply substantial changes
to pavement and bridge design criteria. The Government will need to take action
to revise legislation and regulations in order to establish a revised allowable
axle loading for vehicles along with revised truck dimensions and overall
weights.   These revisions will require appropriate changes   in criteria,
standards and design axle loads for roads and bridges in order that design and
construction be made consonant with the now standards. JKR has established a
committee comprised of technical staff to study and analyze the situation and
to make recommendations concerning required revisions to pavement and bridge
design criteria and standards.
3. The study recommended a phased increase in allowable single axle load,
increasing it from the present 9 tons (22 tons overall weight) to 11 tons (32
tons overall weight) in the first instance, then to 12 tons (44 tons overall
weight) in the medium term, with the long-term goal set at 12 tons also but at
a higher overall weight. Tandem axle loadings would also be appropriately
increased at the same time. The use of the 12 ton standard would be permitted
only after the existing stock of bridges had eventually been replaced with those
designed to carry such increased loadings. The Government has not yet made a
definite decision concerning future allowable axle loadings but is considering
an interim increase to 10 tons with a gross overall allowable vehicle weight of
32 tons, a change which would not affect existing bridges which had been designed
to the standard presently in use. The Phase I Study also identified bridges that
are presently unsafe, damaged or deteriorated, or substandard in terms of the
bridge design standards presently in use.  These bridges will be repaired,
rehabilitated or replaced under the project. Except for certain otherwise sound
bridges that require strengthening or reinforcement, bridges that are in good
condition that were designed to the present standard will be able to support
increased single axle loads of 10 or 11 tons provided that their pavements are
strengthened. Naturally, all roadway pavements will need to be strengthened over
the course of time so that they can adequately support the increased axle
loadings and all now pavements and bridges will have to be designed and
constructed to an upgraded standard consistent with the loads that they will have
to bear over their lifetime. In the case of road pavements, this time horizon
should be about 20 years requiring pavement designs to take account of Government
intentions relating to allowable loads during that time span. For bridges, a
time horizon of 40 to 50 years is more appropriate and designs will need to
consider Government's intentions over that larger time span.   The study
recommended that new bridges should therefore be designed on the basis of the
long term design standard in order to avoid obsolescence. In order to permit
rational planning and design of new bridges, it is necessary that the Government
decide on a policy on allowable axle loadings, along with a time-bound program
for gradually reaching the long-term axle load that it wishes to establish.
4.  Since, as is well known, a large proportion ^f trucks presently using
the highways are substantially overloaded, if ways are not found to eliminate
or substantially reduce the numbers oZ overloaded trucks, then the increase in
the allowable axle load will do little except to recognize the actual loads



- 82 -         ~~Annex 1
- 82 -               Page 3
presently being placed on the roads and may in fact worsen the situation by
encouraging overloading to yet greater levels than is presently the case. The
present sporadic, inefficient and unsuccessful enforcement efforts need to be
restructured and improved so that rules and regulations established by the
Government will be effective. The improved enforcement effort should include
revised legislation placing restrictions on the dimensions and structural
capacity of new vehicles licensed, whether imported or locally manufactured,
including control of modifications. Licenses will need to be checked, at random
times and places, to ascertain whether the vehicle complies with the law. At
the same time, appropriate means and personnel will need to be provided to
monitor and control the axle loads of vehicles on the roads.
5. In order to provide the means for monitoring truck weights and axle
loadings, the Study recommended and the Government will establish a series of
weigh stations at strategic locations along the federal highway network. The
construction of these new weigh stations in Peninsular Malaysia, including
procurement and installation of the associated equipment, will be included in
this project. Under the Government's overall weigh station program, a total of
43 weigh stations will be established under the Fifth and Sixth Malaysia Plans.
Of these, 8 will be located in East Malaysia. The other 35 will be located in
Peninsular Malaysia and will be constructed and equipped under the Project. The
civil works for these 35 weigh stations are estimated to cost a total of 14$ 25.8
million, not including contingencies or the cost of land acquisition.  The
necessary equipment, including the weigh-in-motion equipment, is estimated to
cost a total of II$ 14.2 million, including the cost of training. Construction
work will be carried out through contract, using LCB, with construction
supervision provided directly by JKR. Five of these weigh stations are presently
under construction, and will be financed retroactively. Another five stations
have been designed and will be tendered in the near future. JKR. is proceeding
with the design of the balance, which will be designed and constructed during
the project implementation period.
6. In order that enforcement efforts be improved, the present arrangement
whereby authority and enforcement responsibility is divided among NOT, the police
and JKR with little coordination should be improved. At the weigh stations,
police presence needs to be ensured during monitoring operations, especially if
impoundment or unloading of vehicles is required. The Government will need to
make appropriate arrangements and provide neces4oary personnel so that weighing
operations can be followed up by appropriate action.
7. The progress of the Phase II Study in Peninsular Malaysia is being
hampered by a lack of sufficient personnel. The results of the Phase I Study
have clearly shown the utility of this operation by, at the least, identifying
unsafe and substandard bridges and understrength pavements so that appropriate
action can be undertaken to remedy such deficiencies.  The work should be
completed in a reasonable time before continuing deterioration causes even more
serious problems and it is therefore necessary that the Government assign
sufficient qualified staff to expeditiously complete the Phase II Study.
8. During negotiations, agreement will be reached between the Government
and the Bank on an Action Plan for Truck Weight Control (Table 1, attached) which
will provide a time-bound schedule of activities to be undertaken to provide,
over the project period, the required weigh stations, suitably staffed and
equipped. The Action Plan will also include the activities needed to establish



- 83 -                 Anmex I
Page 4
the necessary revisions to the legal framework and the enforcement arrangements,
including police presence, and will, in addition, cover the actions required to
expeditiously complete Phase II of the Axle Load Study in Peninsular Malaysia.
June 1989



- 84 -
Annex 1
Table 1
MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ACTION PLAN FOE IMPROVED TRUCK UEIGHT CONTROL
ACTIVITY                          AGENCY                     DATES
TO IMPLEMENT           FRON           TO
1.    Continuation of Axle Load
Study                                      HPU             Jan. 1989      Dec. 1993
2.    Establishment of Interim
Axle Load Regulations                       JKR            Jul. 1989      Dec. 1990
3.    Establishment of 35 truck
weighing stations in Peninsular
Malaysia                                   JKR             Jan. 1990      Jun. 1992
4.    Decision on level of short-term
and medium-term axle loading
regulations including timing               MOW             Jan. 1990      Jul. 1990
5.    Provide increased police
presence at truck weighing
stations and augment JKR's
police powers                              Police          Jul. 1990      Dec. 1991
6.    Establish revised regulations
relating to truck dimensions
and loading, including axle loads
and overall weights, fines and
other legal sanctions against
violations and introduce
appropriate enabling legislation           P.M.Office    Jan. 1991        Dec. 1991
Source: JKR and Mission
June 1989



- 85 -
Annex 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ROAD SAFETY tMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
1. As Malaysia's road network was expanded and improved during the 1970's
and early 1980's, road safety became an increasingly serious problem. As the
road infrastructure developed, the vehicle fleet increased correspondingly. So
did the number of accidents. This rapid increase in numbers of vehicles and in
vehicle-kilometers travelled in recent years has exacerbated the road safety
problem in Malaysia. Unsafe driving habits, high speeds and recklessness has
always produced, in Malaysia, relatively high accident rates but the explosion
in road usage has caused road accidents to increase very substantially (Table
2.6). In 1974, a total of 24,581 accidents were reported, with 923 fatalities.
Since 1982, with increasing motorization, there have been about 70,000 accidents
each year with approximately 3000 fatalities annually, of which about 20% have
been pedestrians. The fatality rate in Malaysia in 1982 was about 10 deaths per
10,000 vehicles registered when the country's motorization rate was approximately
240 vehicles per thousand inhabitants. By 1987, with the motorization rate
increasing to about 300 vehicles per thousand inhabitants, the fatality rate had
only fallen to 7.3 deaths per 10,000 registered vehicles, about two and one-half
times the rate in most European countries where motorization rates are similar
and about three times the fatality rate in Japan and Sweden. Since motorcycles
represent about 60% of total vehicles in Malaysia, the fatality rate can be
expected to be somewhat higher than that in countries with similar total
motorization rates but with lesser proportions of motorcycles. Nevertheless,
as the motorization rate approaches that in developed countries, the fatality
rate should not remain at the present, unacceptably high levels. In addition,
with continuing expansion in motorization, further increases in traffic growth
are inevitable, giving rise to more traffic conflicts. As a result, even more
accidents and fatalities may be anticipated under present conditions. Means must
be found to change the conditions that are causing the present situation.
2. Although Malaysia's chief regulatory law, the Road Traffic Ordinance,
provides for the establishment of speed limits, such limits have actually been
set only very recently for roads outside urban areas and enforcement is, at best,
spotty.  Lack of adequate enforcement of speed limits, combined with the high
proportion of motorcycles in the vehicle fleet and their lack of road discipline
as well as the public's feeling that the payment of high road user taxes and
tolls permits driving in any way they choose, including speeding, also has
contributed to the unacceptably high accident rate. There is now an urgent need



-86 -                       Annex 2
Page 2
for both a driver education program aimed at increasing public awareness of
highway dangers and the clarification of police responsibilities in enforcing
the traffic laws. The National Road Safety Council has an on-going program which
encompasses public relations and education elements for school children and the
general public, using personal appearances, radio, television and other media.
These efforts need to be extended and intensified, particularly in the areas of
driver training and enforcement.
3. While further strenuous efforts by the Government are required in the
areas of public education, driver training and improved enforcement of speed
limits and other regulations, there are many locations where physical conditions
increase the likelyhood of accidents. While many accidents are the results of
driver error or lack of compliance with traffic regulations, many are due to the
existence of substandard or dangerous roadside conditions.   These dangerous
situations can be removed or mitigated by appropriate physical means and the
Government has begun a program to identify and improve physical road conditions
at these hazardous locations. A comprehensive review and examination of accident
records carried out by HPU followed by detailed examination and analysis of
identified sites by HPU and by JKR's Roads Branch has resulted in the
identification of 267 hazardous locations on the federal road network where
physical improvements would reduce the frequency and severity of accidents.
Where needed improvements are minor or related to road signing or road furniture,
JKR's state and district offices are carrying out the needed work.  Of the
balance of hazardous locations, 42 have been identified (Table 3.6) as priority
locations needing substantial physical improvements to reduce or eliminate
dangerous road conditions. The work required to accomplish this will be included
under this project and is estimated to cost about M$ 53.3 million, not including
contingencies or the cost of land acquisition. Design work for the improvement
of 22 of these hazardous locations has been completed by JKR (June 1989) and the
balance is expected to be finished and ready for tender before the end of 1989.
This work will be carried out by contractors under LCB with construction
supervision provided directly by JKR. Over the course of time, as additional
resources become available, the Government will continue to improve the rest of
the locations where hazardous conditions exist as well as others that are later
identified under HPU's on-going accident monitoring program. In addition, JKR
is in the process of producing a manual on road safety-oriented highway design
that will be distributed to all JKR staff involved in design, construction or
maintenance so that new works or improvements will be carried out in a safety-
conscious manner, reducing in the future the incidence of hazardous situations
caused by physical conditions.
4. Since close to 20% of road accident fatalities involve pedestrians in
heavily travelled built-up areas, 27 hazardous locations (Table 3.7) where there
have been frequent accidents involving pedestrians have also been identified and
overhead pedestrian bridges, including appropriate ground level barriers placed
at least 150 meters either side of the bridge to prevent crossirg by pedestrians,
will be constructed at those locations to permit safe passage across the flow
of traffic. These bridges will be included for financing under this project,
will be designed by JKR, tendered through LCB and supervised during construction
by JKR personnel.
5. In order to ascertain the efficacy of these measures in reducing or
eliminating dangerous conditions and thereby reducing the frequency and/or
severity of traffic accidents, HPU will introduce a system for monitoring the



- 87 -                      Annex 2
Page 3
occurence of accidents at these hazardous locations so that, over time, further
measures could be established for these and other areas to effectively improve
Malaysia's traffic safety experience.   In addition, HPU will establish a
computerized Road Accident Databank on a countrywide basis to permit the
recording and analysis of accident data collected by the police so that hazardous
conditions can be continuously identified and monitored. In order to assist the
HPU in setting up and operating a permanent monitoring and analysis unit to
continuously find means of improving road safety conditions and to collect,
record, maintain and analyze meaningful data, the Government has secured bi-
lateral aid from the Government of Japan to finance the services of an expert
in road safety data acquisition, manipulation and analysis for a period of about
24 months.
6. At the same time that these physical improvements to reduce or
eliminate dangerous conditions are carried out, it will be necessary for the
Government to more rigorously enforce its speed and other traffic regulations,
providing sufficient police presence and intensifying its educational and public
relations campaigns to increase the care that drivers exercise on the roads and
their adherence to safety-increasing driving habits.   During negotiations,
agreement will be reached with the Government on an Action Plan for Road Safety
Improvement which will include, in addition to the physical improvements,
technical assistance and institutional arrangements to be made or provided under
the proposed project (Table 3.8), more rigorous enforcement of traffic laws and
speed limits, a public education and driver training campaign, and a stronger
focus on accident prevention on the part of the police and JKR.
June 1989



- 88 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
MAIAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT EXECUTION AND MONITORING
1. Execution of the Project will be the responsibility of MPW which will
carry out the work through JKR and HPU, implementing the various components and
Action Plans included in the Project in accordance with the agreements and
conditions agreed with the Bank during negotiations, following the steps and time
frame in the agreed Implementation Plan for the Project (Table 3.11), and
complying with the physical targets for the project as set forth in the
paragraphs below. The status of compliance will be reviewed with the Bank at
least annually with particular attention being paid to the targets for routine
and periodic maintenance which have been set taking into account the gradual
increase in resources that are to be made available and the improvements in
efficiency , capability and technical expertise that are to be expected with
time. The corresponding annual budgetary allocations for maintenance that will
be provided will be monitored on the basis of the amounts shown in Table 2.11.
2. As a condition of approval by the Bank of the relevant components to
be financed under the proposed loan, MPW, through JKR, will submit to the Bank
annual programs for execution of the various project components based upon the
agreed economic and technical criteria. All construction work financed under
the project will be carried out through tendering. Once a program has been
declared eligible, JKR will prepare, advertise, tender and award contracts
subject to prior zeview by the Bank, except that, if procurement procedures to
be used for a particular contract or group of contracts have been agreed to
between the Government and the Bank and tender documentation to be used has been
approved by the Bank in advance, then prior review for each contract will be
waived and the contract documentation will be reviewed by the Bank only after
contracts have been awarded and signed.
3. For contracts to be let under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
or Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), procedures for preparation, advertisement,
prequalifi:ation (where required), tender, evaluation and award as well as for
Bank review will be followed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement, and in accordance with the agreements made during negotiations.
Tender documentation for ICB and LCB will be prepared in conformity with the
appropriate standard documentation agreed between the Government and the Bank



89 -                       Annex 3
Page 2
for use under ICB and LCB respectively. In addition, the following procedures
will be followed:
(a)  Where contract values are estimated to be in excess of US$ 7.5
million equivalent, tendering will be through ICB and contract packaging will
be in accordance with agreements made with the Bank. Where several contracts
are to be let simultaneously, bidders will be allowed to tender for one or more
of the contracts providing that they possess the requisite qualifications. In
all cases, where ICB is used, bidders will be pre-qualified, using procedures
and evaluation methodology agreed with the Bank.
(b)   Where contract values are estimated to be less than US$ 7.5 million
equivalent in value, tendering may be through LCB with contract packaging in
accordance with agreements made with the Bank. Where several such contracts are
to be let simultaneously, bidders will be allowed to tender for one or more of
the contracts providing that they possess the requisite qualifications. For LCB,
pre-qualification of bidders will not be required, except that local contractors
will need to be registered with the Government. Where estimated contract values,
under LCB, exceed US$ 2.0 million equivalent, formal post-qualification will be
carried out during bid evaluation in a manner and using procedures and evaluation
methodology as agreed with the Bank, in order to ensure that the successful
bidder has the technical and financial qualifications to complete the work.
(c)   For LCB, foreign contractors will not be required to register with
the Government in order to receive tender documentation or to bid and all
regulations which would tend to prevent their bids from being considered on an
equal footing with local contractors will be waived. For contracts having an
estimated value of US$ 2.0 million equivalent or less, formal post-qualification
will not be required but in keeping with JKR's normal practice, the
qualifications of the successful bidder will be carefully checked and reviewed
at the time of bid evaluation to ensure that he is capable, both technically and
financially, of successfully completing the work;
(d)   Contract awards will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder, except
in the most unrrsual of circumstances. During the course of post-qualification,
the low 1-1'der will not be disqualified unless very specific grounds are found
for such action; the bidder is provided an opportunity to explain or refute the
cause(s) for such action; and the Bank's concurrence is received.
4. Except as described below, all tender documentation will require the
Bank's prior review unlesr standard formats and documentation have been
previously agreed upon between the Government and the Bank. For contracts having
an estimated value less than US$ 2.0 million equivalent, however, such prior
review of documents will not be required.   Instead, post-review of tender
documentation after contract award may be used, at the Government's option. In
such a case, the Bank reserves the right to refuse to finance a particular
contract where agreed procedures have not been followed or other unacceptable
conditions exist and to cancel the associated amount from the Loan.
5. Except as described below, copies of each signed contract, together
with the tender evaluation report giving the award decision and its rationale
will be provided to the Bank. For contracts having a value less than US$ 2.0



- 90 -                       Atnex 3
Page 3
million equivalent, for which disbursements are made on the basis of Statements
of Expenditure, the signed contracts will not be sent to the Bank but instead
will be kept on fil by JKR in its central office in Kuala Lumpur, for inspection
and review by Bank staff during project supervision missions. In cases where
reviews show that agreed tender or award procedures had not been followed, the
Bank reserves the right to refuse financing for the specific contract involved
and to cancel the corresponding amount from the Loan.
6. In order to permit satisfactorily close monitoring and supervision of
project execution and progress by MPW and the Bank, comprehensive quarterly
reports covering all aspects of the project will be prepared for MPW by JKR and
HPU and sent to the Bank. The reports will contain a narrative summary relating
to the status of each of the Project's components, as well as to the status of
the various Action Programs and of the Project as a whole, providing a short
resume of the Project's history up to the date of the report, which will give
in detail the events of the previous quarter.   The report will also cover
problems encountered in implementing each of the Project's components for the
quarter under review, solutions proposed, and results anticipated. The narrative
section will provide advance information, to the extent it is available, on
problems likely to be encountered during the ensuing months, together with
actions to be taken to mitigate or avoid the anticipated difficulties. Data
(possibly in chart or graphical form) will be presented, giving the absolute
quantitites and percentage completion of each project component (in terms of
financial expenditure, physical accomplishment, and elapsed time, separately),
along with an estimate of the anticipated time of completion of each project
component, of each of the agreed Action Plans and of the overall project, related
to the periods originally estimated.
7. These quarterly reports for the Bank will be supplemented by a semi-
annual report which will provide information on the current and anticipated
maintenance and investment budgets, including a breakdown by category of
expenditures and also by force account and contract. Lengths of road being
maintained, separately by routine and by periodic maintenance works and also by
force account and by contract will be documented, including costs and status of
work, and compared; and compliance with agreed project implementation targets
and conditions and covenants in the Loan Agreement.   Detailed cost breakdowns
will be provided for costs incurred in implementing the Project up to that point,
for estimates of additional costs likely to be incurred in future, along with
the reasons and justifications therefor and an estimate of the anticipated total
costs at the time of project completion.   Cash flow requirements and the
disbursement schedule will be reviewed, and recommendations made for eventual
modifications of the programs (if any) and, as needed, of the reportin-
requirements.
8. As a means of providing easily monitored key project indicators and
parameters, to aid in determing whether project progress is satisfactory, the
Government and Bank will reach agreement during negotiations on a series of
targets to be met, in order to help the expeditious and satisfactory execution
of the Project and the various Action Plans as well as JRR's maintenance
improvement efforts. These parameters and the targets proposed are listed below.



- 91 -                    Annex 3
Page 4
MONITORING PARAMETERS
Parameter                                        Target
(units per year)
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
Clearing
Right-of-Way                                           10,000 km
Roadway Section                                         5,000 km
Ditches & Culverts                                      5,000 km
Grading-Unpaved Shoulders                                     2,000 km
Cleaning Culverts                                             5,000 km
Bituminous Eavements
Patching                                                5,000 km
Crack Treatment                                         5,000 km
Patching & Repairing Stabilized
Shoulders                                                     2,000 km
Road Furniture
Maintenance and Repair
of Signs & Road Furniture                                    10,000 km
Renewal of Road Markings                                      2,000 km
Painting and Repair of Guard
Rail and Barriers                                             2,000 km
Brkds
rainting of Steel Bridge Components                          250 Bridges
Maintenance of Bridge Joints and
Bearings                                                     250 Bridges
Clearing and Erosion Control of
Bridge Openings and Substructure                             250 Bridges
Patching and Repair of Bridge
Concrete Components                                          250 Bridges
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
Bit%=inous Plavement
Resealing                                               2,500 km
Resurfacing                                               800 km
Bridges
Repair & Rehabilitation                                100 Bridges
EQUIPMENT AND WORKSHOPS
Scrapping of Unusable Equipment                              300 units
Repair and Rehabilitation of Existing
Equipment                                                    500 units
Repair and Rehabilitation of Workshops                        20 units
TRAINING
Training Accomplished                                        2,400 Persons



- 92 -                        An_e  3
Page 5
9. Records of accomplishments compared to these goals will be kept by JKR,
and annual reports, showing the comparison, provided to the Bank at the time of
the annual consultations on project progress. These reports will also provide
the reasons for any shortfalls experienced and will identify difficulties and
problems preventing improved performance, together with proposed and intended
actions to be taken by JKR to remove obstacles and increase accomplishments.
An updated detailed Implementation Plan (Table 3.11) will be presented by JKR,
at the time of the annual consultation, for project execution during the coming
year, which will address any difficulties or problems encountered or anticipated
in order to increase or maintain the rate of project progress.
10. In addition to the goals delineated above, the Government and the
Bank will reach agreament during negotiations on a set of operational targets
to be used as project monitoring Performance Indicators, which will provide data
and information on the status and quality of JKRas maintenance operations,
providing benchmarks against which improvement in road and bridge maintenanca
operations and capability can be measured. A list of such monitoring indicators
is given in the table below:
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Item                    Unit              Present Level               Standard
Roads Inventoried       km/year                  3000                    5000
Bridges Inventoried     no./year                  600                    1000
Percent of Permanently
Sidelined Equipment Fleet
Scrapped                %/year                      5                      20
Availability of
Equipment Fleet           *                        10                      80
Periodic Road Maintenance
Performed using Force
Account /_1               I
Bituminous Seal                             100                      80
Resurfacing                                  50                      20
/j  Percentage of total annual periodic road maintenance carried out by force
account (by the state JKR quarries) with the balance being executed by contract.
11. At the time of the annual consultative meeting on project progress,
JRR will provide the Bank with a set of comparative data, showing actual values
of the performance indicators as they relate to the year just past, comparod to
the standard values listed, giving reasons for any shortfalls or differences,
together with an Action Plan listing specific actions that will be taken to
rectify any discrepancy.



- 93                        Annex 3
Page 6
12. JKR will also provide the data and information listed below and during
these meetings, the Government and the Bank will discuss and roach pertinent
agreements on the following, among other things:
(a) Financial summary showing the status of implementation of the
Project;
(b) Compliance with agreed targets for works and procurement
financed under the Loan;
(c) Economic evaluation of works to be included in the annual
program for the coming year;
(d) Use and deployment of consulting services for training and other
purposes;
(e) Review of audit reports, data, and documents kept on file by
JKR, and consolidation and comparison of disbursements against actual
expenditures;
(f) Updated targets and objectives of the Project;
(g) Proposed maintenance budget and detailed maintenance program
for the coming year; and
(h) Proposed disbursement schedule for the balance of the project
period.
June 1989



- 94 -
Annex 4
Page 1
MAIAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. GENERAL REPORTS AND STUDIES ON THE SECTOR OR SUBSECTOR
1.   Malaysia:   Matching Risks and Rewards in a Mixed Economy, 3
volumes, October 1988, World Bank.
2.   Malaysia:  Industrializing a Primary Producer, 2 volumes, June
1986, World Bank.
3.   Malaysia: National Transport Policy Review, June 1988, World Bank.
4.   Handbook of Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines, Malaysian
Department of the Environment, Government of Malaysia, July 1987.
5.   Report on the Improvement of the Road Traffic Accident Recording
and Analysis System in Malaysia, United Nations, ESCAP, May 1985.
6.   Yearbook of Transport Statistics, Malaysia, 1984, 1985, 1986,
Ministry of Transport, Government of Malaysia.
7.   Annual Statistical Bulletin, Ministry of Transport, Government of
Malaysia, 1986.
B. GENERAL REPORTS AND STUDIES REIATING TO THE PROJECT
1.   Reports of the technical assistance experts for improvement to the
conduct of construction supervision, Inception Reports (2 volumes)
and   Progress Reports 1 and 2 (4 volumes), 1987/1988.
2.   JKR Training and Research Institute:  Annual Report (1989) and
Research Project Descriptions (Geotechnical and Pavement Design),
11 volumes, 1988.
3.   Report on the Feasibility Study for the Upgrading of the Johor
Bahru-Kota Tinggi Road.



- 95 -
hnx 4
Page 2
4.    Report on the Feasibility Study for the Improvement of the Kuantan-
Gambang Road.
5.    Timber Bridges Replacement Program - Economic Evaluation, April
1989.
6.    Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project. Project Outline,
January 1989.
7.    JKR Manuals: Bridge Design (1987); Pavement Design (1988); Road
Design (Geometric, Survey and Engineering) (1987); Construction
Supervision (1989); and Inspection and Testing (1989).
8.    Interim Report- JKR Bridge Loading Committee, May 1989.
9.    Standard Conditions of Contract for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), JKR, 1989.
10.   Standard Conditions of Contract for Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB), JKR, 1989.
11.   General Information, Malaysian Roads, JKR, 1985, 1986, 1987.
12.   Deta-iled Report on Road Maintenance Program by State, JXR, 1989.
13.   Standard Specifications for Road Works, JKR, 1988.
14.   Axle Load Study, Peninsular Malaysia, 12 volumes, Draft Report by
consultants Rendel Palmer & Tritton, October 1987.
15.   Report on Continuation of Axle Load Study in Peninsular Malaysia,
Phase II, - iception Report, August 1988 and Progress Report, May
1989, HPU.
16.   Report on Establishment of Truck Weighing Stations in Malaysia
using Weigh-In-Motion and Automatic Recording Equipment, JKR,
January 1988.
C. SELECTED WORKING PAPERS
1.    Price Analysis Report, JKR, 1989.
2.    Report on Bridge Component for Proposed Highway Rehabilitation and
Improvement Project, JKR, May 1989.
3.    Report on Road Rehabilitation and Strengthening Component for
Proposed Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project, JKR, April
1989.



- 96 -
Annex 4
Page 3
4.    Report on Road Safety Improvement Component for Proposed Highway
Rehabilitation and Improvement Project, JKR, April 1989.
5.   Report on Truck Weight Control Stations Component for Proposed
Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project, JKR, April 1989.
6.   Working Paper No. 1 - Previous Bank Operations in the Highway
Sector in Nalaysia.
7.   Working Paper No. 2 - Malaysia's Federal Road Network: Status and
Needs.
8.   Working Paper No. 3 - Bridges on the Federal Road Network: Status
and Needs.
9.   Detailed Cost Estimates and Calculations.
10.   Worklng Paper No. 4 - JKR's Accounting, Budgetting and Auditing
system.
11.   Working Paper No. 5 - The Toll Road System, the Malaysian Highway
Authority and Privatization.
12.   Working Paper No. 6 - Draft Terms of Reference for technical
assistance consultancy services.



- 97 -                Ch8rt l
eG     I         lPt    E0
WIB 
slI!X



MA"LAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABIUTATION AND IMPROVEMOEN PROJECT
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT4NINSULAR MALAYSIA
ROADS BRANCH
Organlzaon Chat
OwacTa"~          or I 
WAUWAT                         SAF O    * mom          mCmL      RXR_*. ROADS
d  Lc-Id  --                                                   I
STE~- snE8WEIN Y]ONZ
DESSO S                                      0
DOCUMENTATION
~~~"EwE



MALAYSIA
HIGHWAY REHABILrATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
HIGHWAY PLANNING UNIT
OranIzatlon Chwt
l                                  _
N N  HPNINGAAY PlAN              I
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
SUPPORTIN
STfAF
0Q"<aZ~~~~~



IBRD 21488
,0             \e102,                                                 MALAYSIA              t04'
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Federal Highway Network
dang Besar                                             for Peninsular Malaysia
Hkit Kayu                                                          HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENTS
Kangar                 T H A I L A N D                                       EXISTING EXPRESSWAYS (TOLL):
4 LANL
2 LANE
\@Alor Setar    ;?;                  }4  I(ntXaBahru              FUTURE EXPRESSWAYS (TOLL):
ir 4\t  tK   \-     4LANE
\   \ |Mas    VPut h            TRUNK HIGHWAYS
Kamfng-~-~--.RAILROADS
Petani.u   Bal     t\>n~    s                : ,\ts                     STATE BOUNDARIES
Georgeto -Pe                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Geovtm  jutterwdrth Gri
Kuala    * era,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Kul
Kurau          .) ',S
K  ^;l VKngusangph                  / 
Sepetang,                                               ungun   50~~~S LITH
{         _h                              <                          jCh bE~~~~~~~~~L  CHIIVA
4'                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.
>7  OIntan     . I            Jerantut               a                     SE
~~' tti uantan ~~~~SEA
aPeabuhan KIa4, Kajang                                           ,          2,0 3,0 4p   0  6,0
100-
THAitAND                                                  .'n   SegaS                Me i> I
NOVEMBER 1989



