Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16759
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2114-CHA)
May 29, 1997
Rural and Social Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1989   $1= Y 3.76
1990   $1= Y 4.78
1991   $1=Y5.32
1992   $1= Y 5.42
1993   $1= Y 5.73
1994   $1= Y 8.50
FISCAL YEAR-
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FILO    -  Foreign Investnent and Loan Office
FRG      -  Federal Republic of Gennany
GSS      -  General Secondary School
GTZ      -  German Agency for Technical Cooperation
ICR      -  Implementation Completion Report
MEdC   -  Municipal Education Commission
MOL    -  Ministry of Labor
PEdC    -  Provincial Education Commission
PIO      -  Project Implementation Office
PPI      -  Proposed Project Institution
R&D    -  Research and Development
SAR      -  Staff Appraisal Report
SEdC    -  State Education Commission
SOE      -  Statement of Expenditure
STS      -  Secondary Technical School
SVS      -  Secondary Vocational School
SWS    -  Skilled Workers School
TA       -  Technical Assistance
TTC      -  Technical Teacher Training College
TTD      -  University Technical Teacher Training Department
UBE      -  Universal Basic Education
VTC      -  Vocational Training Center
VTE      -  Vocational and Technical Education
GLOSSARY
Key Provinces: Municipalities of Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin, and Provinces of
Jiangsu and Liaoning are called Key Provinces in this report.
Vice President    :  Jean Michel Severino, EAP
Director          :  Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief        Joseph Goldberg, EA2
Staff Member      :  Dingyong Hou, Consultant, EA2RS



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ....................................................                                                           iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................................v
PART  I. IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .....................................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description .....................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives .....................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................................7
D. Project Sustainability .....................................................8
E. IDA  Performance .....................................................8
F. Borrower Perfornance .....................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome ....................................................                                      10
H. Future Operation .....................................................1.1
I. Lessons Learned .....................................................11
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES ....................................................                                    12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ....................................................                               12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ....................................................                           13
Table 3: Project Timetable ....................................................                                    14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ....................... 15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................................................... 15
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations ....................................................                 16
Table 8a: Project Costs ....................................................                                       18
Table 8b: Project Costs ....................................................                                       19
Table 8c: Project Financing ....................................................                                   19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................                           20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ....................................... 21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................................                        21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ....................................................                            21
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ....................................... 22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE .................................                                                            25
ANNEX C: OPERATION PLAN .................................                                                                        33



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
Vocational and Technical Education Project
CREDIT 2114-CHA
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Vocational and
Technical Education Project in China, for which Credit 2114-CHA in the amount of
SDR 38.5 million ($50 million equivalent) was approved on March 27, 1990 and made
effective on August 21, 1990. The credit was closed on December 31, 1996. Funds were
fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on February 25, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Dingyong Hou, Rene Welter and Jan Segerstrom in the
Rural and Social Development Operations Division, China and Mongolia Department of
the East Asia and Pacific Region, and reviewed by Joseph Goldberg, Chief, EA2RS and
Yo Kimura, Project Advisor, EA2DR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
June 1996, and an ICR mission in December 1996. The ICR is based on materials in the
project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing views
reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.






CHINA
Vocational and Technical Education Project
(CREDIT 2114-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
1.    The main objectives of the project were to expand, upgrade and increase the
efficiency of the secondary vocational and technical education (VTE) system with emphasis
on improvements in the quality of the system, including its institutions at all levels. The
project concentrated on five highly industrialized provinces and municipalities' while also
covering eight other provinces. The project included four components: (a) construction,
laboratory and workshop equipment, library books and teaching materials, and related
technical assistance for 59 secondary VTE schools in 10 provinces and 3 municipalities to
develop into vocational training centers (VTC) which would serve as models for further
development of VTE; (b) similar provision as in (a) above for 9 technical teacher training
colleges (TTCs) and 3 university technical teacher training departments (TTDs) to expand
enrollments and upgrade the quality of laboratory and workshop instruction; (c) strengthen
the management of the VTE system at all levels through technical assistance (TA); and
(d) equipment and technical assistance required to establish a national and two regional
VTE research and development (R&D) centers to research and recommend policy measures
to improve the quality, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness of the VTE system. Assistance for
the latter component was provided through parallel financing by the then Federal Republic
of Germany through the German agency for technical cooperation, GTZ.
Implementation Experience and Results
2.    Negotiations for the project were completed early in May 1989 and Board
presentation was initially scheduled for mid-June of the same year. This was delayed to
March 27, 1990 due to the delays experienced during the previous year in presenting China
projects to the Board. Local funding, however, was not affected during the abeyance
period, thus allowing civil works, furniture procurement and some local training to proceed
as originally planned. Once the project was declared effective on September 21, 1990,
implementation proceeded smoothly. The high inflation prevalent since 1990, coupled with
depreciation of the local currency against the US dollar did not appear to affect
implementation substantially. (The exchange rate was 1:3.8 between the dollar and the
Yuan at appraisal and was 1:8.3 at project completion.) A likely cause was the fact that
most civil works to be financed by counterpart funding were completed early in the
implementation cycle, mostly within the first and second year of implementation and before
1 The highly industrialized jurisdictions were Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Liaoning and Jiangsu.



- vi -
the inflationary trend could have major repercussions. The local governments were able to
secure the planned counterpart funding. A one-year extension of the closing date was
granted (from 31/12/95-31/12/96), in order to allow for the completion of the training
program and the procurement of computers. As a result of the extension and upon request
from the Government, reallocations between categories of Credit funds were made to reflect
minor changes, some allocation for training was transferred to equipment, but did not
involve any use of savings or any change in the project description.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
3.    Overall Outcome. The project is rated generally satisfactory in that it initiated a
process of quality and efficiency improvements in the VTE system that are now
accelerating with the pace of economic reform. The most important external factor in
determining the success of the project has been the growth of the economy with strong
demand for the schools' graduates. Also contributing to this outcome were a number of
important reforms of the VTE system introduced by the government during the project
period, including: the elimination of guaranteed employment and assignment of graduates;
encouragement for progressive increase in the number of and proportion of students
sponsored by enterprises and by self-support fee payment, improvement of teachers'
qualifications, and improved conditions of services, and adoption of a national Vocational
Education Law. With the exceptions noted (paras. 13, 14, 17, 18), the development
objectives were relevant and achieved.
4.    The transformation of 59 selected schools within the vocational system in 12
provinces and municipalities into Vocational Training Centers or "centers of excellence,"
through the proceeds of about 80 percent of the Credit, thus enabling a very significant
increase in enrollments and internal efficiency gains, has been a major achievement of the
project. Of equal importance is the fact that all graduates have been gainfully employed and
that, through establishment of Industrial Liaison Committees, more flexibility has been
introduced in the curriculum as well as the new institutions receiving increasing financial
assistance from industry. Similar achievements can be reported on the teacher training
institutions with respect to facilities, equipment, and enrollments. On practice-oriented
curriculum development and the "training of trainers," the introduction of system efficiency
measures and indicators points toward evolution and changes already in place. The three
research and development centers were established with some delay due to external
financing issues. GTZ, on behalf of the German government which provided parallel
financing for these centers, conducted an implementation review in March 1997 and shared
with the Bank a summary of its findings. The GTZ review found the component
satisfactory but noted issues in recruiting qualified VTE research specialists and provision
of project staff. Training for the VTCs and TTCs included overseas fellowships and in-
country workshops were provided through a program with Ohio State University. For
management training, the programs were implemented as planned. The TA program was
implemented mostly in terms of number of trainees, while some weaknesses in quality and
appropriateness were observed. Other weaknesses identified were related to the difficulty
of measuring improvements in teaching or improvements in management as a result of



- vii -
teacher and management training for the absence of a more effective monitoring and
evaluation system and some aspects of project management.
5.    Sustainability. The probability of maintaining the project's achievements in terms
of expansion of the VTE system is high due to the demand for skilled manpower generated
by an economy in expansion, industry and state-owned enterprises absorbing the full
complement of graduates produced by the system and industry's growing share of training
costs (50 percent). Because of this strong demand and its economic impact, upgrading and
efficiency of the system is part of a continuing process of reform the project was able to
facilitate. Since the major part of funding of secondary vocational and technical education
has gradually shifted to the provinces and industry which are assuming full financial
responsibility, sustainability could also be seen on a case by case basis and according to the
economic development of each region. Most of the schools supported by the project
became national or provincial "key schools," which very often receive priority funding from
local governments both in recurrent and capital expenditures. In the case of Jiangsu, one of
the fast-growing provinces with high demand for skilled labor, the provincial government
has established an earmarked vocational training fund for the next five years. The fund will
be used to finance physical expansion and maintenance and qualitative improvements in its
VTE institutions, for which the project schools would be able to compete along with other
institutions. The fact that five out of twelve participating provinces are also involved in the
Vocational Education Reform Project speaks highly for sustainability, while the remaining
seven are now experiencing high demand for skills provided by project schools and have
also proven their high commitrnent to the project and its objectives.
6.    Future Operations. The project Operation Plan provides a Government strategy
with respect to the development and reform of vocational education and its plans to sustain
the project impact in project institutions and replicate to nonproject institutions. The
lessons learned from implementing this project are reflected and integrated in the design of
the Vocational Education Reform Project, approved in July 1997, which capitalizes on the
experience and strength provided by the Vocational and Technical Education Project.
7.    Lessons Learned.  The main lessons learned from the project are:  (a)
establishment of Industrial Liaison Committees is a useful vehicle in promoting increased
participation of industries and in advising VTE training institutions on policy, financing
and curricula renewal in response to market demand; (para. 7b) (b) a monitoring and
evaluation system is essential to track implementation and assess project impact. Under this
operation, the design of project performance indicators should have focused on project
impact and results on the ground rather than only quantitative targets. The extent of this
project's quite apparent improvements in VTE training quality could therefore not be
systematically monitored during implementation. (para. 15); and (c) under the project,
more supervision resources, both in terms of staff time and appropriate technical
expertise, should have been provided by IDA. Heavy supervision is essential during the
early years of implementation with a focus on sectoral issues rather than processes in both
supervision and reporting. (para.24)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2114-CHA)
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    Objectives. The main objectives of the project were to expand, upgrade and
increase the efficiency of the secondary vocational and technical education (VTE) system
with emphasis on improvements in the quality of the system, including its institutions at all
levels. The project concentrated on five highly industrialized provinces and municipalities2
while also covering eight other provinces.3
2.    Project Components. The project included four components:
(a)   Assist 59 secondary VTE schools in 9 provinces and 3 municipalities to
develop into vocational training centers (VTC) serving as models for further
development of VTE through the provision of construction, laboratory and
workshop equipment, library books and teaching materials, and related
technical assistance;
(b)   Provide similar inputs as in (a) to 9 technical teacher training colleges
(TTCs) and 3 university technical teacher training departments (TfDs) to
expand enrollments and upgrade the quality of laboratory and workshop
instruction;
(c)    Strengthen the management of the VTE system at all levels through
technical assistance (TA); and
(d)   Provide equipment and technical assistance required to establish a national
and two regional VTE research and development (R&D) centers to research
and recommend policy measures to improve the quality, efficiency, and
cost-effectiveness of the VTE system. Assistance for this component was
provided through parallel financing by the then Federal Republic of
Germany (through the GTZ, The German agency for technical cooperation).
2 The highly industrialized jurisdictions were Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Liaoning and Jiangsu.
3 The eight other jurisdictions were Shandong, Hubei, Hunan, Zhejiang, Sichuan, Shaanxi, Fujian,
Guangdong.



2
3.    Despite extensive prior lending operations of the Bank Group in Chinese education,
this was the first vocational and technical education project in China, which was initiated
through a sector study carried out late in 1986, followed within months by a Bank project
preparation mission in 1987. The project concept and objectives were generally well
designed and appropriate to the Government's strategy to expand and upgrade the VTE
system to meet the growing demands for technical manpower. However, in terms of the
research and development component and overall technical assistance, expected outcomes
could have been more clearly outlined. Also, the inclusion of eight additional provinces to
the five key provinces spread available resources too thinly.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Component One-Vocational Training Centers
4.    General. The development of the Vocational Training Centers (VTCs), a major
component of the project, absorbed about 65 percent of project funds. The financing of
construction, lab and workshop equipment, training materials and technical assistance
enabled 59 selected secondary vocational schools (SVSs), secondary technical schools
(STSs) and skilled workers schools (SWSs) from 13 provinces and municipalities to build
up capacity, initiate improvements and transform from a group of traditional narrowly
specialized, poorly equipped and exclusive preservice VET schools into a new generation of
multifunctional and adequately equipped training centers. Of the above schools, 31 or 53
percent of the total were located in the 5 highly industrialized provinces/municipalities
referred to as key provinces. Graduates from project schools have to a very high degree
been employed in industry in positions they have trained for.
5.   Infrastructure.  Construction, mostly of laboratory and workshop facilities
required to enable the above transition to take place, has been very satisfactory. Entirely
financed by counterpart funds and implemented early in the project, planned areas have
largely been exceeded and user satisfaction is quite positive as verified during site visits to a
representative sample of institutions. Similarly, in terms of equipment and training
materials, the outcome has been very positive. The institutions have been upgraded to a
level appropriate to the country's present level of industrialization and meet the demands
for classrooms, laboratories, workshop and practice equipment as required by the
curriculum.
6.    Quantitative Expansion. In response to the demand for skilled workers, the
project set out as one of its essential goals the expansion of regular enrollment at the
selected 59 schools. Based on data from all the institutions, full time enrollment increased
by about 98 percent over the period 1988-1995 from 43,052 to 87,019. The project also set
out to expand inservice training enrollments and to make the equipment and facilities
available to students from nearby schools. Expansion of enrollment in short and part-time
upgrading and retraining programs increased by about 620 percent from 11,929 to 73,886
annually, compared with an expected increase of about 330 percent. These courses were
expanded more rapidly than estimated at appraisal in response to a heavy demand for these
skills from industry.



3
7.    Qualitative Improvements. A fundamental goal of the project, while supporting
the expansion of capacity, was to improve the quality of teaching, curriculum development
and management processes by piloting a package of quality improvement measures.
Reports from the VTCs also indicate efficiency improvements in specific areas designed
under the project and grouped under (a) immediately below:
(a)   improvement in the utilization rates of facilities and equipment, which have
doubled, averaging about 90 percent of the target set in the SAR; weekly
teaching contact hours for technical teachers, which ranged from 6-10 hours
at the time of appraisal, have been increased to an overall average of 14
hours. This increase has also been a factor in increasing student/staff ratio
from an average of 9/1 to about 14/1, thus allowing for increased enrollment
without corresponding increases in staffing; the proportion of nonteaching
staff in the institutions has been reduced, with the ratio of teachers to non-
teaching staff increasing from about 1.4/1 to a value of 1.9/1.
(b)   a process was initiated to improve the participation of industry and foster
closer links between employers and training providers through establishing
Industrial Liaison Committees at each project school. These committees
appear to have had successful outcomes including: assistance with
placement of trainees for industrial training as part of their training
programs, sponsorship of trainees and associated payment of tuition fees,
donation of funds and equipment, advice on training needs, and employment
opportunities for graduates.
(c)   institutions are able to provide facilities for conduct of most of the practical
exercises required by the curriculum. Attempts were made in many schools
to diversify the mode of delivery by mounting new, short term, quick and
tailor-made courses to market demands, particularly in their inservice and
contract training programs. The project schools possess greater flexibility to
develop and revise their curricula and syllabus within a broader framework
set by national and provincial authorities and in response to demand for
skilled manpower. Practice has been prioritized in the total curriculum
requirement compared to a previous theory oriented curriculum. Also, new
courses have been established in Secondary Vocational Schools to satisfy
demand from industry.
(d)   the majority of institutions have set up arrangements for student counseling,
particularly to assist with job placement following the gradual elimination of
the system of guaranteed employment which prevailed, particularly at the
STSs, at the time of project appraisal; and
(e)   project institutions have supported nonproject institutions in a number of
ways, including making available their upgraded specialist laboratories and
workshop facilities to the trainees of those schools, and providing training



4
for their teachers. It appears that typically such dissemination activities
account for 5-10 percent of the project institutions' total work program.
8.    Assessment. In this major component of the project, quantitative expansion in
regular enrollments and even more in short-term/part time training exceeded all
expectations and targets set at appraisal. The full employment of graduates from project
institutions, in response to economic development and industrial expansion, was a very
positive and important outcome as well as the closer and more responsive links between the
VTCs and industry, which is also taking on an increasing share in the financing of these
institutions. Despite many efficiency improvements, continuing effort is needed in the
areas of improved curriculum and better trained teachers. Nonetheless, project-initiated
changes have had a positive impact on the participating institutions in terms of their
management, operations and, to a lesser extent, teaching processes, including utilization of
facilities and equipment. The impact is likely to be sustained in their future operations and
with high probability can be replicated through effective dissemination.
Component Two-Technical Teacher Training
9.    General.  Complementing the expansion and quality improvement of the
Vocational Training Centers, the project also assisted the technical teacher education system
to provide an adequate supply of well trained technical teachers. Since most of the
industrialized provinces had a Teacher Training Center (TTC) or Technical Teacher
Training Department (TTD) attached to a university, the project supported 12 TTCs or
TTDs in the relevant provinces. This support, utilizing about 25 percent of funds allocated
to the project, included: (a) provision of civil works; (b) procurement of workshop and
laboratory equipment; (c) teaching materials including books; and (d) a technical assistance
component consisting of overseas and domestic staff development programs. These inputs
have enabled the institutions to complete 100 percent of all lab/workshop exercises
prescribed by the curriculum and to improve the quality of their instructional programs
while greatly increasing their enrollments.
10.   Infrastructure. The process of upgrading and equipping facilities for both TTCs
and VTCs was very similar and the implementation process for both types of institutions
followed very much the same course. As for the VTCs (para. 5), physical expansion and
procurement of equipment and materials have been successful and the same comments
apply.
11.   Quantitative Expansion. As a result of the resources provided for expansion of the
TTCs and TTDs, the enrollment of students increased according to targets and in many
cases exceeded them. Preservice student enrollment in the key provinces increased from
5,200 in 1988 to 10,784 in 1996, while in the other seven provinces the figures were 6,400
in 1988 and 14,477 in 1996, respectively. In terms of preservice training, the key provinces
recorded enrollments of 1,300 in 1988 against 5,902 in 1996. At the same time, the
enrollment for inservice students went from 1,000 in 1988 to 3,828 in 1996. Altogether,
preservice enrollment of 11,500 in 1988 was forecast to rise to 21,500 by the end of the
project, whereas the final number in 1996 reached 25,261. The corresponding enrollment



5
for inservice training was 2,300 in 1988, forecast at 10,000 by 1994, but reached only 9,730
in 1996. In addition, enrollments at the 12 project TTCs and TTDs, which have provided
training for students in less developed provinces, were forecast at about 5,000 annually by
1994, but reached 4,900 in 1996 instead.
12.   Qualitative Improvements. Through the TA program, trainers benefited from
outside training both overseas and in the one-year national programs. While a positive
initial step, effectiveness of the training is difficult to measure in terms of improvement in
teaching methods as a result of training. Efficiency measures and indicators, common to
both VTCs and TTCs, which were introduced in the project and described under para.7
above for the VTC component, point toward quality improvements. The new facilities and
new equipment greatly facilitated lab/workshop practice. Curriculum changes have been
initiated but do not yet fully reflect the new approach.
13.   Assessment In the technical education system analysis in the SAR, it was stated
that technical teacher training needed upgrading and that a high percentage of the course
work was to be conducted in classrooms and lecture halls as theoretical instruction while a
rather small part was allocated to practice, such as workshop and laboratory practice and,
very importantly, industrial and teaching practice. It is of crucial importance that future
teachers, assigned to instruct and train skilled workers for industry, should have the
practical skills to carry out this assignment. The provisions under the project have initiated
the process of change but have not yet substantially changed the mode of operation of the
TTCs and TTDs, and continuing curriculum reform, to reflect the necessary practical
elements of technical teacher training, would be a very high priority. In this context, it
would also be important that the "trainers of trainers" should have the background and
experience to follow a new curriculum which would be technically and practically oriented
with much less academic and theoretical content.
Component Three-Upgrading of Management
14.   General. The primary objective was to improve management of the VTE system at
the national, provincial, municipal, and project institution levels. It was aimed at the top
VTE echelons including officials of the State Education Commission (SEdC), Provincial
Education Commissions (PEdCs) and Municipal Education Commissions (MEdCs) with
emphasis on management principles related to enrollment planning, data processing and
analysis, VTE financial and personnel management, evaluation of curricula, VTE
institutions and standards of graduates, facility and equipment planning. Less han 1
percent of project resources were allocated to this component which nevertheless provided
extensive local and overseas training programs for VTE administrators at all levels and
specialist services.
15.   Assessment. Although the training programs were implemented as planned, their
effectiveness was difficult to assess fully because of the absence of assistance for
establishing improved systems, including the provision of hardware and software and
comprehensive training of administrative support staff.  The vocational education
department of SEdC and the Central Research Institute designed and pilot tested a set of



6
instruments for evaluation of training performance, these appear not to have been fully
implemented on a routine basis.
IDA Financed Technical Assistance
16.   The IDA-financed technical assistance was similar for all three components.
Technical assistance was provided overseas and in-country as consultant services and long-
and short-term staff training for key teachers and principals, including some overseas study
tours. Consultants, both domestic and international, conducted seminars for institutional
staff in the VTCs and the TTC/TTDs (about 40 man-months of international experts and
about 1,020 man-months of domestic consultants). As regards short term staff training,
provisions were made for one, two and three months training benefiting about 2,200 staff
through domestic training focusing on instructor and management training as well as
industrial practice. Long-term training, about one year, mainly in pedagogic and instruction
methods, was given in-country to about 2,000 teachers and trainers from VTCs and TTCs,
respectively. Another 80 staff, mainly teachers, teacher trainers and principals from the
VTCs and TTCtlTDs, went through one-year training programs overseas. Also, about 35
administrative staff participated in a three week study tour abroad to study VTE systems in
other industrialized countries.
17.   The foreign part of the technical assistance was executed by Ohio State University.
For a variety of reasons, mostly foreign language capability, the fellowship program fell
short of the target set at appraisal by about 20 percent which were converted into local
training. The foreign consultant-led seminars were completed as planned, but the selection
of participants did not take sufficient note of prerequisite knowledge and skills. The
necessary Chinese-English interpretation during the seminars was in many instances
inadequate, since interpreters often lacked knowledge of the subject matter being discussed.
This raises concern whether this type of seminar is an effective method of transferring
knowledge and skills. As regards the domestic training, the targets were met, although far
from the full amount allocated was utilized because costs were overestimated at appraisal
and higher cost efficiency was achieved. As a result, some funds were reallocated to the
equipment category in connection with the extension of the Credit closing in late 1995.
Component Four-VTE Research and Development Centers
18.   General.  The objective of the component was to develop a research and
development (R & D) capability to address the problems of the VTE system, including
uneconomical use of facilities and equipment, imbalances between teaching and
nonteaching staff, inadequate links with industry and a narrowly based curriculum. The
project assisted in the establishment of a national R & D center in Beijing and two regional
centers located in Tianjin and Shanghai. No new construction was required since the R &
D centers were established in existing institutions. The project therefore included only
equipment, books and periodicals, and related technical assistance representing about 10
percent of the project, which was provided on a grant basis and through parallel financing
from the Federal Republic of Germany.



7
19.   Implementation. The National Center was established in Beijing and one regional
center in Shanghai. The third center, originally planned for Tianjin as a regional center
under the Ministry of Labor (MOL), was later transferred to SEdC and located in Shenyang,
Liaoning province. A steering committee for the centers was established with membership
from SEdC and MOL. The roles and functions for the three centers were planned in great
detail and the National Center in Beijing was to be the coordinating center. Major activities
for the centers were inter alia: linkages with industry related to trainee performance and
general feedback, curriculum review, job analysis, development of new programs and more
effective utilization of workshop and laboratory equipment. Implementation of the
component was delayed for a number of reasons, including MOL's decision not to
participate. Secondly, recruiting the necessary research staff for the centers proved difficult
and SAR targets for staffing were not met. Despite the foregoing, the National Center
prepared the framework and details for a national vocational education law, which was
approved by the Government in June 1996. The same center is responsible for preparation,
with the VTE department, of annual reports on Vocational Education and the first report for
1995 was published in Chinese and English. The center also publishes a monthly journal
on vocational education with a circulation of 40,000 copies. It has also been reported that
the center has been given an increased role in national policy formulation and development
in association with the VTE department. Most of the research staff has been trained in
Germany and the technical assistance team also comes from Germany.
20.   Assessment. The evolution and late inclusion in the project of this research and
development component, after the overall financing plan of the project had been agreed to
in principle, required seeking external financing to accommodate the component, placed it
outside IDA control, and resulted in some implementation delays. GTZ, on behalf of the
German government, conducted an implementation review of the three centers in March
1997, and shared with the Bank a summary of its findings. The GTZ review of the
component found it satisfactory but noted issues in recruiting qualified VTE research
specialists and provision of project staff as constraints in the implementation. While the
improvement made in the later stage of project implementation and the infrastructure the
project helped create in these centers, provide a base to be capitalized on, the expected
outcome of this component could have better supported formulation of VTE policy and
related strategy, considering demand from employers.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
21.   Implementation-Record. Negotiations for the project were completed early in
May 1989 and Board presentation was initially scheduled for mid-June of the same year.
This was delayed to March 27, 1990 due to the delays experienced during the previous year
in presenting China projects to the Board. Local funding, however, was not affected during
the abeyance period, thus allowing civil works, furniture procurement and some local
training to proceed as originally planned. Once the project was declared effective on
September 21, 1990, implementation proceeded smoothly. The high inflation prevalent
since 1990, coupled with depreciation of the local currency against the dollar did not appear
to affect implementation substantially. (The exchange rate was 1:3.8 between the dollar and



8
the Yuan at appraisal and was 1:8.3 at project completion.) A likely cause was the fact that
most civil works to be financed by counterpart funding were completed early in the
implementation cycle, mostly within the first and second year of implementation and before
the inflationary trend could have major repercussions. The local governments were able to
secure the planned counterpart funding. A one-year extension of the closing date was
granted (from 12/31/95-12/31/96), in order to allow for the completion of the training
program and the procurement of computers. As a result of the extension and upon request
from the Government, reallocations between categories of Credit funds were made to reflect
minor changes, some allocation for training was transferred to equipment, but did not
involve any use of savings or any change in the project description.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   The probability of maintaining the project's achievements in terms of expansion of
the VET system is high due to the demand for skilled manpower generated by an economy
in expansion, industry and SOEs absorbing the full complement of graduates produced by
the system and industry's growing share of training costs (50 percent). Because of this
strong demand and its economic impact, upgrading and efficiency of the system is part of a
continuing process of reform the project was able to facilitate. Since the major part of
funding of secondary vocational and technical education has gradually shifted to the
provinces and industry, which are assuming full financial responsibility, sustainability could
also be seen on a case by case basis and according to the economic development of each
region. Most of the schools supported by the project became national or provincial "key
schools" which very often receive priority funding from local governments both in recurrent
and capital expenditures. In the case of Jiangsu, one of the fast-growing provinces with
high demand for skilled labor, the provincial government has established an earmarked
vocational training fund for the next five years. This fund will be used to finance physical
expansion and maintenance and qualitative improvements in its VTE institutions, for which
the project schools would be able to compete along with other institutions. The fact that
five out of twelve participating provinces are also involved in the Vocational Education
Reform Project speaks highly for sustainability, while the remaining seven are now
experiencing high demand for skills provided by project schools and have also proven their
commitment to the project and its objectives.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
23.   When China decided to expand vocational education, a sector dialogue was initiated
with IDA which provided guidance, initially through the findings of the sector study,
followed by the formulation and development of the project. Although there was consensus
on the objectives, there was some divergence of views on project design. The Government
wanted to maximize project resources over a greater number of provinces and institutions,
while IDA's position was one of concentration in fewer provinces, resulting in manageable
supervision. The project resulted from a compromise where eight provinces were added to
the initial five key provinces. Also, the relatively late inclusion in the project of the
research and development centers (between preappraisal and appraisal), after the overall



9
financing plan of the project had been agreed to in principle, required seeking external
financing to accommodate the component.
24.   Project generation from the early stages of identification and preparation to
appraisal was carried out satisfactorily by IDA in terms of development and processing of
the project as well as completing these stages in a timely manner. IDA staff and consultants
assigned to these tasks, in terms of numbers and skill mix, were also appropriate. Project
supervision, however, was deficient with only three missions carried out during more than
42 months from  October 1990 (project effectiveness) to May 1994.  Supervision
coefficients during this period varied from one to two staff/weeks in the field per year
without the professional expertise required to assess and advise the Borrower. This situation
was beyond the control of the staff involved who, apart from the VTE project,
simultaneously supervised up to three other projects in the course of a single mission or
combined supervision with other lending operations because of budgetary limitations. As a
result of this situation, two project provinces were not visited and the mid-term review
rather than being a joint exercise as specified in the credit agreement was prepared by the
Borrower and submitted to the Bank without ensuing comments. From mid-1994 up to
completion of the project the situation improved with the raising of frequency of missions
and assigning a technical education specialist as task manager. Finally, the content of
annual reports should have been discussed and agreed in more detail with the implementing
agencies.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   As with other projects in the education sector, SEdC had overall responsibility for
implementing the project and acted as coordinating body at the central level as well as with
the project entities in the provinces. The Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO), the
coordinating and executing arm of SEdC and its affiliates in the provinces, was responsible
for day-to-day management of the project including equipment procurement, technical
assistance and accounts including withdrawals and audits.
26.   Areas of strength were in the phases of project design and preparation where SEdC
and the PEdCs/MEdCs provided all the necessary means, information and dialogue to move
the project ahead. Also, several aspects of implementation were handled well by FILO
including local and international procurement, accounting and disbursements and
submission of yearly audits on time. Regarding implementation in general, the project
benefited at the central level from the experience and procedures in place for other
Bank/IDA education projects; this being particularly applicable to procurement and
accounts. Procurement of equipment through ICB was contracted to the International
Tendering Company under the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade with
good results. The Technical Assistance program managed by FILO was effective in
organizing local training with its very large number of workshops and participants, signing
of the major TA contract and liaison with Ohio State University as well as the mechanics of
sending candidates on overseas training. With respect to selection of competent fellows,
advising on contents of workshops and training programs and the long term benefits of the



10
training, however, there were weaknesses in evidence in directing the program overall and
assessing its appropriateness in relation to the project's objectives.
27.   FILO, by engaging the technical vocational department of SEdC, could have
provided more necessary and specialized staff to travel to the provinces, organize regular
meetings either centrally or regionally to deal in a comprehensive way with
program/curriculum issues to achieve quality improvement of the system. From IDA's
perspective through travels to the various entities, it appeared that there was more interest
and knowledge at that level.
28.   Although  annual reports were prepared regularly  during  the course of
implementation in accordance with the Credit Agreement, information contained in these
reports proved to be of less value due to their submission three months after the end of the
reporting year. Also reporting on implementation by categories of the project with
emphasis mainly on equipment, contracts and disbursement gave a very limited view of
overall implementation. For the future, reports should provide a comprehensive view of the
project, its activities, problems and adjustments and, most important, the meeting of its
objectives. The format and contents for reporting need to be discussed with the Bank at the
beginning of project implementation.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.   The project is rated generally satisfactory in that it initiated a process of quality and
efficiency improvements in the VTE system that are now accelerating with the pace of
economic reform. The most important external factor in determining the success of the
project has been the growth of the economy with strong demand for the schools' graduates.
Also contributing to this outcome were a number of important reforms of the VTE system
introduced by the government during the project period, including: the elimination of
guaranteed employment and assignment of graduates; encouragement for progressive
increase in the number of and proportion of students sponsored by enterprises and by self-
support fee payment, improvement of teachers' qualifications, and improved conditions of
services and adoption of a national Vocational Education Law. With the exceptions noted
above, the development objectives were relevant and achieved.
30.   The transformation of 59 selected schools within the vocational system in 12
provinces and municipalities into Vocational Training Centers or "centers of excellence,"
through the proceeds of about 80 percent of the Credit, thus enabling a very significant
increase in enrollments and internal efficiency gains, has been a major achievement of the
project. Of equal importance is the fact that all graduates have been gainfully employed and
that, through establishment of Industrial Liaison Committees, more flexibility has been
introduced in the curriculum as well as the new institutions receiving increasing financial
assistance from industry. Similar achievements can be reported on the teacher training
institutions with respect to facilities, equipment, and enrollments. On practice-oriented
curriculum development and the "training of trainers," the introduction of system efficiency
measures and indicators points toward evolution and changes already in place. The three



11
research and development centers were established with some delay due to external
financing issues. GTZ, on behalf of the German government which provided parallel
financing for these centers, conducted an implementation review in March 1997, and shared
with the Bank a summary of its findings. The GTZ review found the component
satisfactory but noted issues in recruiting qualified VTE research specialists and provision
of project staff. Training for the VTCs and TTCs included overseas fellowships and in-
country workshops were provided through a program with Ohio State University. For
management training, the programs were implemented as planned. The TA program was
implemented mostly in terms of number of trainees, while some weaknesses in quality and
appropriateness were observed. Other weaknesses identified were related to difficulty of
measuring improvements in teaching or improvements in management as a result of teacher
and management training for the absence of a more effective monitoring and evaluation
system and some aspects of project management.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
31.   The Government prepared and submitted to the Association a draft Operation Plan
in December 1996. Integrating the comments provided by the Association, the Government
resubmitted the Operation Plan in April 1997, which is attached in this report as Annex C.
This plan provides a government strategy with respect to the development and reform of
vocational education and its plans to sustain the project impact in project institutions and
replicate to nonproject institutions. The lessons learned from implementing this project are
reflected and integrated in the design of a Vocational Education Reform Project, approved
in July 1997, which capitalizes on the experience and strength provided by the Vocational
and Technical Education Project.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
32.   The main lessons learned from the project are:
(a)   establishment of Industrial Liaison Committees is a useful vehicle in
promoting increased participation of industries and in advising VTE training
institutions on policy, financing and curricula renewal in response to market
demand (para. 7b);
(b)   a monitoring and evaluation system is essential to track implementation and
assess project impact.  Under this operation, the design of project
performance indicators should have focused on project impact and results on
the ground rather than only quantitative targets. The extent of this project's
quite apparent improvements in VTE training quality could therefore not be
systematically monitored during implementation. (para. 15); and
(c)   more supervision resources, both in terms of staff time and appropriate
technical expertise, should have been provided by IDA. Heavy supervision
is essential during the early years of implementation with a focus on sectoral
issues rather than processes in both supervision and reporting (para. 24).



12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives            Substantial        Partial     Negligible      Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                         X
Sector policies                                                                                X
Financial objectives                                                                           X
Institutional development                                     X
Physical objectives                           X
Poverty reduction                                                                              X
Gender issues                                                                                  X
Other social objectives                                                                        X
Environmental objectives                                                                       X
Public sector management                                      X
Private sector development                                                                     X
B. Project Sustainability                       Likely                Unlikely              Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                         Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                                                               X
Preparation assistance                                                       X
Appraisal                                                                    X
Supervision                                                                                      X
D. Borrower Performance                      Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                                                 X
Implementation                                                              X
Covenant compliance                              X
Operation (if applicable)                                                   X
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory         Highly
Unsatisfactory
x



13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
LOAN/CREDIT                              PURPOSE                      YEAR OF    STATUS
APPROVAL
PRECEDING OPERATIONS
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT  To strengthen science & engineering in 28 leading       1981      Completed
PROJECT                Chinese Universities. Objectives were to                    1986
(LN 2021-CHA, CR. 1167-CHA)   increase the quality & quantity of graduates &
research, to strengthen the planning &
management capabilities & to prepare
investments in the education sector.
AGRICULTURE EDUCATION   To assist agriculture higher education and research    1982       Completed
AND RESEARCH PROJECT           in 11 agricultural colleges and 7 institutions.             1989
(CR. 1297-CHA)
POLYTECHNIC/TELEVISION   To increase the number of students & to improve       1983       Completed
UNIVERSITY PROJECT           the quality of instruction in China's 17                    1992
(CR. 141 1-CHA)          polytechnic institutions & 28 television
universities.
RURAL HEALTH MEDICAL   The educational component of this project was           1984      Completed
EDUCATION PROJECT            designed to enhance the quality of education,               1991
(CR. 1472-CHA)           training & curriculum.
SECOND AGRICULTURAL    To improve & assist agriculture education in 23        1984      Completed
EDUCATION PROJECT            agricultural colleges, 12 agricultural technical            1992
(LN. 2444-CHA)           schools.
SECOND UNIVERSITY          To increase technical & managerial personnel     1985      Completed
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT            through policy & institutional changes related to           1992
(CR. 1551-CHA)           the engineering and economic/finance education
subsector.
PROVINCIAL UNIVERSITY    To provide direct assistance to 60 provincial        1986       Completed
PROJECT               universities in 28 provinces and planning                    1992
CR. 1671-CHA)            assistance for the higher education subsector.
FOLLOWING OPERATIONS
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT   To support the textbooks upgrading program by           1989       Completed
PROJECT                the Chinese Government. Objectives are to                 6/30/95
(CR. 2006-CHA)           improve the educational quality of textbooks at
all levels of schooling, to increase the variety of
available textbooks & to improve the efficiency
of textbook production.
VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL  To improve the quality of technical & vocational         1990     Completed
EDUCATION PROJECT            training in China through supporting 59 secondary          12/31/96
(CR. 2114-CHA)           vocational/technical schools in 10 provinces and 3
municipalities.
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES         To assist Changzhou, Luoyang and Shashi cities to  1991       To be
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT            improve overall and sector planning and                   completed
(LN. 3286-CHA)           management, including education.                            6/30/97
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT To support the government's plan to reform the            1991       To be
PROJECT                management of science and technology programs.            completed
(CR. 2210-CHA)           It consists of support for research and graduate            6/30/97
training in 133 State Key Laboratories and Special
Labs affiliated with Universities and with the
Chinese Academy of Sciences.
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT  To support three main goals for the development of        1992        To be
IN POOR PROVINCES           education in relatively poor provinces - Shanxi,          completed
(CR. 2339-CHA)            Shaanxi, Hubei, Hunan, Guizhou and Yunan.                  12/31/98



14
LOAN/CREDIT                             PURPOSE                      YEAR OF    STATUS
APPROVAL
EFFECTIVE TEACHING         To contribute to improved learning at the lower   1993       To be
SERVICES PROJECT           middle school level by providing teaching                 completed
(CR.2471-CHA)            services, including instructional methodology,            12/31/98
teacher training and management of teachers
training and assignment.
BASIC EDUCATION IN POOR  To support the attainment of universal primary         1994       To be
AND MINORITY AREAS           education and expansion of coverage of lower              completed
PROJECT               secondary education in poor and minority areas in        12/31/2000
(CR. 265 1-CHA)          6 provinces: Xinjiang, Sichuan, Inner Mongolia,
Ningxia, Guangxi, and Jiangxi.
THIRD BASIC EDUCATION    To support the attainment of universal primary        1995       To be
PROJECT               education and expansion of coverage of lower              completed
CR. 2831 -CHA           secondary education in poor and minority areas in         12/31/2001
7 provinces: Anhui, Fujian, Gansu, Hebei, Henan,
Jilin and Qinghai.
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION   To improve and increase the supply of skilled labor,    1996       To be
REFORM PROJECT             raise the quality and efficiency of the VTE system       completed
(CR.4063/Ln2898-CHA)        and build up capacity for monitoring and                  12/31/2002
evaluation in four high growth provinces and
Tianjin municipality.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                     Date planned                       Date actual
Identification                               04/23/87                          04/23/87
Preappraisal                                 01/15/88                          01/15/88
Appraisal                                    01/20/89                          01/20/89
Negotiations                                 05/01/89                          05/01/89
Board presentation                           06/15/89                          03/27/90
Signing                                      05/23/90                          05/23/90
Effectiveness                                08/21/90                          08/21/90
Project completion                            12/31/94                          12/31/95
Loan closing                                  12/31/95                          12/31/96



15
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal estimate             3.0    28.0    42.0    48.0    49.0    50.0      0       0
Actual                                 6.2    15.7    35.0    40.21   43.7    52.6    53.8
Actual as % of adjusted estimate      22.1    37.4    72.9    82.0    87.4
Final date of disbursement                                                            02/25/97
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Quantitative Indicators   Vocational Training Centers      Technical Teacher Training
Institutes/Departments (12)
Start     Target     Actual      Start     Target      Actual
Full-time Enrollment        43,967      66,819     85,359     13,517     21,500      25,261
Inservice Enrollment         11,907     40,680     55,370      4,267      9,890      9,730
Full-time Teachers           4,703      6,120      5,406       4,021      3,408      1,906
Student/Teacher Ratio          9          11        13.9        4           6          13
Teacher/Nonteaching Staff     1.4        1.86        1.9         1          2          2
Ratio
Teacher Weekly Contact        n/a         12        13.8        n/a        12         11.6
Hours
Facility Utilization          n/a         90         90         n/a        90          88



16
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Key Qualitative Indicators            Status at Start            Actual at Completion
Effectiveness of Management
(a) positive effect on work of nonproject         n/a              majority of schools report
schools                                                        increase in support for
nonproject schools by making
aval able specialist labs for
student/teachers for practice and
training of teachers comprising
a 10 percent school load.
(b) improved utilization of physical       low utilization rate    overall facility/equipment
facilities                                                     utilization factor is reported to
have increased to a value based on
criteria agreed at appraisal.
(c) increased contact hours for teachers  low weekly contact hours    average teacher contact hours in
VTCs increased to about 13 hours
per week, double that at appraisal.
(d) reducing proportion of nonteaching     high proportion of      overall teacher to non teaching
staff                                   nonteaching staff      staff ratio reduced from 1.4 to I to
1.9 to 1.
(e) reasonable cost sharing with other        not in place         a user fee was introduced by
participating schools                                          participating schools for the use of
labs/works to contribute to
maintenance costs
(f) maintenance, including adequacy of        not in place         all schools report the
maintenance budget                                             establishment of
arrangements/budget for
maintenance.
(g) effectiveness of student counseling and   not in place         majority of schools report
job placement                                                  establishment of counseling
services, particularly in job
placement.



17
Key Qualitative Indicators           Status at Start           Actual at Completion
Improved Quality of Project and
Nonproject Schools
(a) effectiveness of VET teacher training       n/a              volume of staff upgrading training
and retraining                                               has exceeded the amount planned
under the project
(b) allocation of teaching responsibilities     n/a              project-trained staff participated in
and teacher performance                                      development of VET programs.
Many schools report promotion of
staff after training to positions of
responsibility and to their
designation as key teacher status.
(c) improved utilization of teachers in         n/a              majority of schools report
nonproject schools                                          improved utilization ofteachers.
Improvement of VET and Industrial
Liaison
(a) establishment of Industrial Liaison     not in place         majority of PEdCs/schools report
Committees (ILC)                                             establishment of ILCs
(b) meetings between PEdC and ILC           not in place         meetings are reported normally
taking place 2 or 4 times a year
(c) effect of work of ILC on school         not in place         outcomes include placement of
curriculum and student training and                         trainees for industrial trainin
placement in industry                                        employment of graduates, advice
on training needs, financial
support and technical support
including teaching by industrial
staff.
Improvement of Senior Management
(a) management staff training                   n/a              most schools report participation
in overseas or domestic training
for senior managers but needs to
be continued and expanded.
(b) arrangement and participation in            n/a              most schools report participation
conferences and seminars etc.                               in overseas or domestic seminars
and conferences but needs to be
expanded.



18
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(Yuan million)
Item                   Appraisal Estimate               Actual/latest Estimate
Local     Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total
Civil Works                   47.6        5.3       52.9       171.8       0.0      171.8
Furnitur                       7.9        0.9        8.8        17.4        1.7      19.1
Equipment                     76.6       92.7      169.3       373.5      94.6      468.1
Books and Teaching materials   2.2        0.9        3.1         4.9        1.7       6.6
Overseas Training              0.4        6.8        7.2         0.8        1.7       2.5
Local Training                11.8        0.0       11.8         1.7        0.0       1.7
Foreign Specialists            0.2        1.5        1.7         0.8       3.3        4.1
Local Specialists              0.6        0.0        0.6        24.1       0.0       24.1
Total Base Costs       147.3      108.1      255.4          -         -         -
Physical Contingency          14.1       10.4       24.5
Price Contingency             27.8        5.3       33.1
Total             189.2      123.8      313.0       595.0      103.0     698.0
R&D Centers (FRG financed)     5.5       20.5       26.0        12.5      45.7       58.1
Total                                   339.0                            756.1



19
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Item                      Appraisal Estinate                    Actual/latest Estimate
Local    Foreign      Total            Local      Foreign       Total
Civil Works                       12.8        1.4       14.2            20.7          0.0         20.7
Furniture                          2.1        0.2        2.3             2.1          0.2          2.3
Equipment                         20.5       25.2       45.7            45.0         11.4         55.8
Books and Teaching materials       0.6        0.2        0.8             0.6          0.2          0.8
Overseas Training                  0.1        1.8        1.9             0.1          0.2          0.3
Local Training                     3.2        0.0        3.2             0.2          0.0          0.6
Foreign Specialists                0.1        0.4        0.5             0.1          0.4          0.5
Local Specialists                  0.2        0.0        0.2             2.9          0.0          2.9
Total Base Costs           39.6       29.2       68.8              -           -             -
Physical Contingency               3.7        2.8        6.5
Price Contingency                  7.4        1.3        8.7
Total                50.7       33.3       84.0             71.7        12.2         83.9
R&D Centers (FRG financed)          1.5       5.5        7.0              1.5         5.5          7.0
Total                                      91.0                                      90.9
TABLE 8c: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Category                  IDA             Government             FRG                 Total
Estimates   Actual   Estimates   Actual   Estimates   Actual   Esimates   Actal
Civil Works                     0         0        17.5     20.7       0         0        17.5      20.7
Equipment, Books and Furniture  46.5     49.6      16.5      9.3       0         0        59.2      59.1
Technical Assistance            5.8       4.13      0         0        0         0         7.3       6.13
R&D Centers                     0         0         0         0        7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0
Total               50.0     53.73     34.0      30.0       0         7.0     91.0      90.9



20
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Covenant   Present   Original    Revised
Agreement     Section       type      Status   fulfillment  fulfillment   Description of covenant     Comments
date        date
Credit      3.01.A            10        C                              Project to be carried out with
due diligence through SEdC
and to provide funds,
facilities and services as
required.
Credit      3.01.B            10        C                              Project to be implemented in
accordance with the
implementation program set
forth in part A of schedule 4.
Credit      3.01.C            3         C                              proceeds of credit to be made
available to provinces under
the project.
Credit      4.01              1         C                              Annual Audit report to be
submitted to the Association
no later than August 31 of
each year.
Credit      Sch.4, A. 1. a  9, 10       C                              Submit annual progress report
in accordance with indicators
agreed with the Association
no later than September I of
each year.
Credit       Sch.4, A. I.b    9         C      12/19/1992              Conduct mid-term review with
the Association no later than
December 31, 1992.
Credit      Sch.4, A.2        10        C                              Training under the project to
be carried out in accordance
with program agreed with the
Association.
Credit       Sch.4, A.3       10        C                              Each province shall maintain a
PIO during the project
implementation period.
Credit       Sch.4, B.2       10        C                              provinces agree to undertake
measures agreed with the
Association to make the
vocational/technical
education system more
efficient.
Credit      Sch.4, B.3      10, 5,4     C                              provinces are to carry out their
components with due
diligence through SEdC and
to provide funds, facilities,
and services as required.
Credit      Sch.4, B.4       4,3        C                              provinces are to allocate
sufficient funds for the
maintenance, repair and
purchases of spare parts for
schools and institutions.
Covenant Class:                                                                 Status:
I = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not         CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the           allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy!
6 = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other



21
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Not Applicable
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Project Cycle                     Planned                                  Actual
SWs            $'000                     SWs            $'000
Preparation to Appraisal            n/a             n/a                     171.7           389.9
Appraisal                           n/a             n/a                      12.0            24.7
Negotiations to Board               n/a              n/a                      9.2            18.5
Supervision                         n/a             n/a                      57.8          191.8
Completion                          n/a             n/a                      19.0            28.6
Total                   n/a             n/a                    269.7           653.5
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of project  Month/year  Number Days in  Specialized staff     Performing rating       Type of
cycle                  of persons  field  skills represented La                       problems
Implementa- Development
tion status Lb   objectives
Identification     07/87         3      n/a       PO/EC/Ed            -            -            -
Preparation         11/87        5       28    TEd/PS/EdC/Ar          -            -            -
Preappraisal       02/88         4       20    TEd/PS/EC/EdC          -            -            -
Appraisal          06/88         4       17    TEd/PS/EC/EdC          -            -            -
Supervision 1      11/90        2        15         EC/Ed             I            I            -
Supervision 2      10//91        1       7           EC              2             1            -
Supervision 3      09/92        2        14         EC/Ed             I            I            -
Supervision 4      09/93         1       10          EC               1            I            -
Supervision 5      06/94        2        7        STEd/TEd            I            I            -
Supervision 6       10/94       2        5         STEd/E            S            S             -
Supervision 7      01/96        3        20      STEd/IS/OA          S            S             -
Supervision 8      06/96        3        20     STED/OA/TS           S            S             -
Completion          12/96       3        14      STED/IS/OA          S            S             -
La Ar: Architect; EC: Economist; Ed: Educator; EdC: Education consultant; IS: Implementation specialist;
OA: Operation Analyst; PS: Procurement specialist; STEd: Senior technical educator.
/b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory.
L/ Typical problems included: implementation delays in technical assistance and studies.



22
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.   Introductory remark  This appendix was prepared in accordance with the new
Bank procedures for ICR preparation replacing the original guidelines for ICR
preparation.
2.    Comments on the Two parts of the ICR prepared by the Bank. The Borrower
recognizes that, on the whole, the brief descriptions of the project objectives, contents,
implementation and outcomes contained in Part I of the ICR are clear, conform to reality,
and acknowledges that the tables of statistical information given in Part II are sufficient
for illustrating the key factors relating to the project implementation. The Borrower
agrees in general with the views, analysis and comments of the Bank on the project
execution.
3.    Project Background. After the "Compulsory Education Law" of 1986 mandated
universal basic education through grade 9, the Chinese government has strongly
emphasized the development of secondary vocational and technical education (VTE) to
provide the technical manpower required by the rapid expansion of national economy and
decrease the pressure for admission to upper secondary schools and higher education
institutions. Although the Chinese VTE has a certain solid foundation, there are
deficiencies in enrollment, school building and equipment (some of them are dilapidated),
major construction, teachers' quantity and quality, teaching method, management
capability and financing of school and VTE research. To address these problems, the
government designed the VTE developing program that led to this project with the World
Bank.
4.    Project Objective.  To expand and upgrade the secondary vocational and
technical education system and technical teacher training system that provides teachers to
secondary VTE schools. The project emphasizes improvements in the quality of the
project institutions and institution building in the VTE system at all levels, concentrating
on five highly industrialized provinces and municipalities.  The project has four
components: (a) to assist 59 secondary VTE schools in 10 provinces and 3 municipalities
to be promoted into vocational training centers (VTC) which would serve as models for
further development of VTE; (b) to assist 9 technical teacher training colleges (TTCs)
and 3 university technical teacher training departments (TTDs) to expand enrollment and
upgrade the quality of laboratory and workshop instruction; (c) to establish one national
and two regional VTE research and development (R&D) centers to conduct research and
recommend policy measures to improve the quality, efficiency, and cost effectiveness of
the VTE system and to develop inexpensive teaching materials and equipment for the
VTE schools; and (d) to improve the management capability of the VTE system. The



23
project would provide construction, instructional equipment, books and teaching
materials and related technical assistance (TA).
5.    Project Implementation. The project was executed by SEdC at the central level.
In order to ensure the smooth implementation of the project, a series of implementing
units (some of them are belonged to other ministries) were closely organized at various
level and a number of appointments were assigned to take responsibility for the
implementation. During the five years of the project circle, under the successful
administration and of SEdC according to the guidance of the World Bank, the overall
implementation went well in disbursement, civil works, equipment procurement and
training and technical assistance and administration at all levels. The project was
successfully completed by the closing date on December 31, 1996, which was extended
from December 31, 1995 as the requirement of the project implementation. The total
credit amount was disbursed and the total local counterpart fund was expended. In
another aspect, most of the key indicators for monitoring the overall progress of the
project development were met or exceeded. In addition, the management capability in
different levels are improved. It is natural that there are also a few of deficiencies losses
in work to be corrected in future, e.g., the teacher training should be further strengthened
in model, contents and arrangement for better servicing education and economic needs.
Quite a lot of items illustrating the achievement of project objectives have been listed and
analyzed in Part I of the ICR in detail. The Borrower agrees in general with the
comments and will not take any further review in detail.
6.    Project Sustainability. Although the project is affirmed successfully, there are
still work to be done to sustain the project benefits in the future. Attention should be
given to the following respects to the sustainability: (a) Further expand vocational
education; (b) Continue and disseminate project initiated improvements; (c) Strengthen
technical teacher training; (d) Further improve links between the project institutes and
industry; and (e) Continually investment in project institutes.
7.    Bank's Performance. The bank officials and staff participating the project's
proportion appraisal and initial operation were highly professional and qualified with the
task. Moreover, having been involved in the work of the previous education projects,
most of them had established close and efficient working relationship with the counter
Chinese staff and were efficient working relationship with the counter Chinese staff and
were familiar with the working situation of Chinese projects. In the later period of the
project's life, however, quite the number of Bank officials were transferred to new
positions in the Bank and some were retired. It had affected, to certain extent, the
understanding of each other and weakened the familiarity with the project.
8.    Borrower's Performance. It was the first time for the project institutions to deal
with the World Bank financed project. Hence most of them need indeed time to
familiarize themselves with the situation of their task. In addition, the evolution and
implementation of the project were simultaneously with economic and education reform
and great development of the vocational and technical education in China and hence



24
affected by frequent changes of condition and policies. These difficulties, on the other
hand, turns into a positive factor to the enthusiastic and diligent staff of the project
entities under the well directed leadership of SEdC and other relative parts of China
government. To accelerate the reform and development of education, the project has just
served the central purpose of such accelerated reform and development in the vocational
and technical education in China. The impressive achievements of project are conclusive
evidences of the performance and quality of the participating institutions of the Borrower.



-25 -                     ANNEX B
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
November 25 - December 6, 1996
GENERAL
1.    A completion mission for the Technical/Vocational Education Project, Cr. 2114-
CHA, visited China between November 25 and December 5, 1996. The mission
consisted of Jan Segerstrom (mission leader), Dingyong Hou, Gordon Hunting, Wenjin
Wang, Rene Welter, and Wenbin Hu (RMC). The mission met with officials of
SEDC/FILO to review progress in implementation since the previous supervision visit in
June 1996, collect data and information for the preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR), and discuss the respective inputs into the report by the Bank
and the Borrower.
2.    During 1996, and in anticipation of the completion process, the Bank visited a
representative sample of project institutions in the provinces of Hubei, Hunan, Liaoning,
Sichuan and the Beijing prefecture. The mission wishes to express its appreciation for all
the assistance provided including the arrangements made and hospitality extended by
FILO, SEdC, officials and staff of the provinces and institutions visited.
OVERALL IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
3.    With less than one month left until completion of the project on 31 December
1996, almost all activities related to implementation have been completed. The project
was extended by one year in order to provide the necessary time for an additional
technical assistance and training program to be carried out (replacing previously planned
training programs which could not be carried out) and procurement of personal
computers for selected project institutions. At this point in time, both of these major
activities have been carried out satisfactorily with only minor exceptions.
4.    Construction and Procurement. Civil works and procurement of equipment has
been successfully carried out. Almost all construction, using Government counterpart
funds, was completed in 1995 and exceeded original planned areas by about 32 percent.
Designs are functional and of good quality. Equipment for laboratories and workshops
was procured and installed. Altogether there were five major procurement exercises in
the project totaling $44.8 million, of which three ICB, one LCB and one through Direct
Purchase.
5.    Technical Assistance. The program as defined in the SAR was mostly completed
by the end of 1995. One to two month training programs for: (a) teachers, lab instructors
and technicians on pedagogy and in industry; and (b) administrators on management,



-26-                       ANNEX B
largely exceeded the SAR figures on the average by a factor of four. There was,
however, a considerable shortfall in the one-year full-time domestic study program (1,385
actual versus 2,000 planned) and to a lesser extent in the one-year overseas training
program (104 actual versus 128 planned). The initialized project funds resulting from
these two shortfalls were reallocated in order to purchase more equipment.
6.    Consultant Services. Twenty four foreign expert-led workshops were conducted
out of a planned twenty six for faculty groups from the TTCs, TTDs and VTCs and were
completed by the end of 1994. These workshops absorbed the foreign expert man/month
provided in the SAR.
7.    Disbursements/Audits. At completion, the Credit of SDR 38.5 million or $50.0
million will be fully disbursed.   Audits were submitted annually throughout
implementation in a timely fashion, reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank, with the
final Audit falling due on 01/08/97.
IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Development of Vocational Training Centers(VTCs)
8.    The implementation of this component has been overall successful. The intended
project objectives have been achieved.  The project financed technical assistance,
construction, lab and workshop equipment and training materials which enabled 59
selected SVS, STS and SWs from 13 provinces and municipalities to build up the
capacity, initiate improvements and transform from a group of traditional narrowly
specialized, poorly equipped and exclusive preservice VET schools into a new generation
of multifunctional, and adequately equipped training centers.
Quantitative Expansion
9.   In response to the anticipated demand for skilled workers, the project set out the
expansion of the regular enrollment at these 59 training center as one of its essential
goals. Based on data from 49 of the 59 project institutions, the enrollment in full time
increased by about 93 percent over the period of 1988 to 1995 from 37,134 to 71,581,
compared with a planned expansion of about 52 percent.
10.   The project also set out to expand inservice training enrollment and to make the
equipment and facilities available to students from nearby schools. The expansion of
enrollment in short and part-time upgrading and retraining programs increased by a factor
of about 10 times, from only 4,496 to 51,507 annually, compared with an expected
increase of about 250 percent.
11.   The infrastructure at these training facilities has been upgraded to the level
appropriate for the current level of industrialization meeting the demands for classrooms,
laboratories, workshop and practice equipment as required by the curriculum.



-27-                        ANNEX B
Qualitative Improvements
12.   A fundamental goal of the project while supporting the expansion of capacity, is
to improve the quality of teaching, curriculum development and management processes
by piloting a package of quality improvement measures in these project institutions.
13.   The reports from 49 of 59 project institutes indicated efficiency improvements in
the following specific areas designed under the project:
(a)   utilization rate of facilities and equipment has been improved, including
the abandonment of the previous practice of scheduling laboratory and
workshop activities only in the afternoons. Utilization rates were reported
to have doubled, averaging about 90 percent in line with the target set in
the SAR;
(b)   weekly teaching contact hours for technical teachers, which ranged from 6
to 10 hours at the time of appraisal have been increased to an overall
average of about 14 hours per week, compared with a target of about 12
hours per week. This increase has been a factor in increasing student staff
ratio from an average of about 9 to 1 to about 14 to 1 compared with the
target of 11 to 1 thus allowing for increased enrollment without
comparable increases in staffing;
(c)   the proportion of nonteaching staff in the institutions, which at appraisal
was relatively large, has been reduced, with the ratio of teachers to
nonteaching staff increasing from about 1.4 to 1 to a value of 1.9 to 1.
Tlhis ratio is short of the target, and the potential for further improvement
is indicated by the large variation in the reported ratio from individual
institutions ranging from 1:1 up to 8:1.
(d)   a process was initiated to improve the participation of industries and foster
closer links between employers and training providers through
establishing Industrial Liaison Committees at each project school. These
committees appear to have had successful outcomes including: assistance
with placement of trainees for industrial training as part of their training
programs, sponsorship of trainees and associated payment of tuition fees,
donation of funds and equipment, advice on training needs, and
employment opportunities for graduates.
(e)   institutions are able to provide facilities for conduct of most the practical
exercises required by the curriculum. Attempts were made in many
schools to diversify the mode of delivery by mounting new, short term,
quick and tailor-made courses to market demands, particularly in their
inservice and contract training programs. The project schools possess
greater flexibility to develop and revise their curricular and syllabus within
a broader framework set by national and provincial authorities and the



- 28 -                    ANNEX B
practice has been prioritized in total curriculum requirement compared to a
previously theory oriented curriculum. Despite these gains, curriculum
development and the quality of teaching by inter alia doing away from
rote-learning remain the priority areas for further improvements.
(f)   the majority of institutions have set up arrangements for student
counseling, particularly to assist with job placement following the
elimination of the system of guaranteed employment which prevailed at
the time of project appraisal.
(g)   project institutions have supported nonproject institutions in a number of
ways including: making available their upgraded specialist laboratories
and workshop facilities to the trainees of those schools, and providing
training for their teachers. It appears that typically such dissemination
activities account for 5 to 10 percent of the project institutions, total work
programs.
Upgrading of Management
14.   The upgrading of management of the VET system was focused on training for
senior managers, particularly for improvement of planning, management and financing
and evaluation. Although the training programs were implemented as planned, their
effectiveness was limited because of the absence of assistance for establishment of
improved systems, including the provision of hardware and software and comprehensive
training of administrative support staff. One example is that of the monitoring and
evaluation of performance of the VET system. Although the Vocational Education Dept.
of SEdC and the Central Research Institute designed and pilot tested a set of instruments
for evaluation of training performance these appear not to have been implemented on a
routine basis. Furthermore, the evaluation carried out by foreign and local consultants
under the supplementary Technical Assistance program during the project extension has
little value as a structured evaluation of performance of the sampled institutions because
of weaknesses in the instruments employed and absence of measurement of outputs.
Policy Development in the VET Sector
15.   During project implementation the Government introduced a number of important
reforms of the VET system including: the elimination of guaranteed employment and
assignment of graduates; encouragement for progressive increase in the number and
proportion of students sponsored by enterprises and by self support fee payment,
improvement of teachers' qualification and improved conditions of service. The most
important external factor in determining the success of the project has been the growth of
the economy with the strong demand for the schools' graduates.



-29-                      ANNEX B
Financing of the VET System
16.  In line with the government policy prevailing at the time the project was
launched, the SAR for the project makes no explicit proposal for increasing cost sharing
or diversification of fmancing sources. However, since 1993, the government has
encouraged VET institutions to obtain funds from sources other than government
allocation including tuition fees, contributions from enterprises, school run ventures and
other donations. A survey conducted by SEdC and the Bank during preparation of the
vocational education reform project showed that in a group of 75 large technical
institutions such nongovemment sources accounted for about 50 percent of total
operational expenditure. Although the survey was not aimed at the institutions in the
present project, there is no doubt the findings apply to the entire VET system including
the project schools.
17.   The overall implementation experience of this component points to the fact that
the project instituted changes have had a positive impact over the project institutions in
their teaching, management and operational processes and the impact is likely to be
sustained in their future operations and with high probability to be replicated if an
effective dissemination strategy and system is put in place.
Technical Teacher Training Component
18.  In order to support the expansion and quality improvement in the Vocational
Training Centers the project also provided assistance to the technical teacher education
system. As most of the industrialized provinces have one TTC (Technical Teacher
Training Center) or TTD (Technical Teacher Training Department, attached to a
university) the project supported 12 TTCs or TTDs in project provinces. This support
can be summarized as provision of civil works, procurement of workshop and laboratory
equipment, other instructional equipment and teaching materials including books. In
addition, the project assisted a technical assistance component consisting of an overseas
and domestic staff development program. The overseas training program consisted of 42
one-year scholarships for key province staff in eight major industrial specialization and
was complemented by 17 man-months of international consultant services to update the
TTD/TTC faculties in pedagogy and institutional management. With regard to domestic
staff training there has been provision for inservice teacher training as one year courses
aiming at upgrading in both technical and pedagogical subjects benefiting about 400
teachers. Also, about 65 specialized teachers and workshop instructors have been
exposed to industrial practice for about two months each to gain industrial experience.
Finally, 60 domestic experts have provided advice to TTC/TTD trainers and
administrators for an average period of three months each.
19.   As a result of the resources provided for an expansion of the TTCs and TTDs, the
enrollment of students have increased according to project plans and in many cases
exceeded them. Preservice student enrollment in the key provinces has increased from
5,200 in 1988 to 10,784 in 1996, while in the other seven provinces it was 6,400 in 1988



-30-                      ANNEX B
and has reached 14,477 in 1996. In terms of inservice training the key provinces recorded
1,300 in 1988 against 5,902 in 1996. At the same time, the enrollment of inservice
training students in the remaining provinces went from 1,000 in 1988 to 3,828 in 1996.
All in all, preservice enrollment was 11,500 in 1988 and was planned to have risen to
21,500 at the end of the project and in 1996 it is 25,261. Corresponding enrollment for
inservice training was 2,300 in 1988 and was planned to have reached 10,000 in 1994 and
is 9,730 in 1996. In addition the 12 projects, TTCs and TTDs have provided training for
students in less developed provinces planned for about 5,000 annually in 1994 and has
reached 4,900 in 1996.
20.  In terms of physical expansion and procurement of equipment and materials this
component has been successful. Also, the enrollment of students have mostly exceeded
the plans laid down in the SAR. In the analysis of the technical education system in the
SAR it is stated that technical teacher training needs upgrading and that a high percentage
of the course work is conducted in classrooms and lecture halls as theoretical instruction
and a rather small part is allocated to practices such as workshop and laboratory practices
and very importantly industrial and teaching practices. It is obviously of crucial
importance that those future teachers to be assigned to instruct and train skilled workers
for industry have the practical skills to successfully carry out this assignment. It appears,
though, that the provisions under the project have not substantially changed the mode of
operation of the TTDc and TTCs and a curriculum reform to reflect the necessary
practical elements of technical teacher training would be a very high priority. In this
context, it would also be important that the "trainers of the trainers" have the adequate
background and experience to follow a new curriculum that would be technically and
practically oriented with much less academic and theoretical content.
VET Research and Development Centers
21.   The objective behind the research and development component was to develop a
research capability that would address the problems and issues affecting the efficiency of
the VET system. Under the Project was established a National Center in Beijing and a
regional center in Shanghai. The third center originally planned for Tianjin as a regional
center under Ministry of Labor, MOL, was later transferred to SEdC and located in
Shenyang in Liaoning province. A steering committee for the research centers was
established with membership besides SEdC also of MOL The roles and functions for the
three centers were planned in great detail and the National Center in Beijing was to be the
coordinating center. Major activities for the centers were inter alia linkages with industry
in terms of trainee performance and general feed-back, curriculum review, job analysis,
development of new programs and related materials, and studies of the effective
utilization of workshop and laboratory equipment. At a rather late stage in the processing
of the project, the then Federal Republic of Germany volunteered to finance the entire
research and development component through parallel grant financing of about $7
million.



- 31 -                    ANNEX B
22.   The implementation of the component has been delayed for a number of reasons
including the fact that Ministry of Labor wished not to participate in the component as
planned. Secondly, it proved difficult to recruit the necessary research staff for the
centers and, at the end of the IDA project, the staffing complement was below what was
planned during appraisal. Even so, the national center (Central Institute) has prepared the
framework and details for a national vocational law which was approved by the
Government in June 1996. The Central Institute is also responsible for preparation, with
the VTE department, of annual report on Vocational Education. The first, for 1995, is
published in both Chinese and English languages. The Institute also publishes a. monthly
journal on Vocational Education with a circulation of 40,000 copies. It was also reported
that the Institute has been given an increased role in national policy formulation and
development in association with the VTE department. Most of the present research staff
has been trained in Germany and the technical assistance team also comes from Germany.
As a result, a substantial number of publications from the centers are published in
German; however,: the central institute has started to publish important materials in
English as well as in Chinese in order to have a wider spread and use of the research
publications to benefit as many participants as possible in the Chinese VET system. The
evaluation of the three centers is not complete as the mission was informed by GTZ that
the German Government is making a thorough review of the progress  of the research
centers in March 1997 and will share its findings with the Bank. This information will
constitute a very important input to the ICR.
AGREEMENTS ON ICR
23.   The revised guidelines prepared by the Bank (April 1994) were discussed between
FILO/SEDC and the mission and the following respective inputs with submission dates
were agreed upon.
Operational Plan
24.  It is expected that the Operational Plan to be prepared by SEdC in consultation
with the project provinces and institutions will include steps to address the following:
(a)   continued upgrading and revision of teacher training and retraining;
(b)   continued strengthening and expansion of links with industry;
(c)   establishment of effective systems for moritoring and evaluation of
vocational education, particularly evaluation of outcomes; and
(d)   continued upgrading and modernization of teaching content and method
relevant to modem sector industrial employment, e.g., upgrading of the
training in computer application. SEdC will prepare an interim OP by
January 15, 1997 and final version by March, 1997.



-32-                       ANNEX B
Key Indicators (ICR Tables 5A and 5B)
25.   Draft table format of indicators are attached and SEdC agreed to update them and
submit to the Bank by January 15, 1997.
Financial Tables (ICR Tables 8A and 8B)
26.   The two tables, Project Costs and Project Financing, include data related to Local
Costs. The mission requested that a first draft or interim data be submitted as soon as
possible, preferably before the mission's departure. Final Local Cost figures are to be
submitted to the Bank following the closing of the project accounts and final
disbursements made.
ICR Preparation
27.   Part I of the ICR will be completed by the Bank and sent to SEDC/FILO not later
than March 15, 1997. Part II of the ICR, prepared by the Borrower, should be completed
and sent to the Bank by April 30, 1997.



-33-                      ANNEX C
ANNEX C: OPERATION PLAN
Introduction
1.    The Vocational and Technical Education Project has been completed successfully.
The project assisted to create an expanded and improved infrastructure for the delivery of
training of skilled labor and initiate improvements in technical teacher training and
management at system and institutional level.  This plan intends to outline- the
government strategy and actions to sustain the project benefits and impact in the area of
vocational education beyond the project period.
2.    Vocational education constitutes one of the four important pillars of China's
education system. As set out in its ninth Five-Year Plan (1995-2000), the Chinese
government will continue to vigorously promote the development of vocational education
including fuirther improvement in its secondary vocational system and plans to expand its
tertiary vocational education system. In 1996, the last year of project implementation, a
Vocational Education Law was enacted which provides a legal framework for the
Government to guide the further development of vocational education in China.
Action Plan
A. FURTHER EXPAND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
3.    As outlined in its ninth Five-Year Plan, the Govermment has set out to further
expand vocational education mainly at post-lower-secondary level with bifurcation
occurring at post-primary, post-lower-secondary and post-upper secondary stages. A
target set for total enrollment in all type of vocational schools is to pursue an average
annual growth rate of 6.3 percent comprising about 60 percent of the total secondary
enrollment.
B. CONTINUE AND DISSEMINATE PROJECT INITIATED IMPROVEMENTS
4.    Project initiated changes in qualitative improvements in management, teaching,
curriculum and textbook development, teaching methodology and pedagogy will be
continuously carried out beyond the project life in the project institution and expand to
nonproject institutions in the project provinces and possibly into the entire vocational
education system as part of a system reform effort.
C. STRENGTHEN TECHNICAL TEACHER TRAINING
5.    To improve the quality of technical teacher training, SEdC will launch a study on
technical teacher training with a view to identify the issues and develop plans as how to



-34-                      ANNEX C
further improve the training for technical teachers. The study will particularly focus on
the institutions supported under the project which are the key institutions in vocational
training in the country.
6.    During the ninth Five-Year Plan period, the project supported 12 Technical
Teacher Training Colleges/Departments will be further strengthened in quality
improvements and quantitative expansion as to better equip teachers to address the issues
in curriculum  development, mode of training and industrial practice.   These
developments will not only aim at meeting current national guideline but also at re-
orienting the training programs to reflect science and technology development and market
needs for skilled human capital in economic development.
D. FURTHER IMPROVE LINKs BETWEEN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS AND INDUSTRY
7.    The project supported establishment of Industrial Liaison Committees and Board
of Trustees will be maintained. The institutions will continue to seek the advice of these
committees on the overall development and/operation of the institutions.  These
institutions will continue to develop as multifunction training institutions to provide
training of skilled labor for the needs of local economic development.
E. CONTINUE INVESTMENT IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
8.    Following project completion and project evaluation, SEdC will develop
guidelines and urge the local governments to continue and increase the investment
through regular budgetary resources in these institutions as to capitalize the initial
investment under the project and sustain them as models for other institutions.



