Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
R.won No. 7672-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
VOCA"IONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
MAY 15, 1989
Population, Human Resources
Urban Development end Water Supply Operptions Division
Country Departmentt111
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted clistribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



CURRWNC
US$1.0 - Yuan (Y) 3.7
Yl - us$ 0.27
(May 1989)
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
ABBREVIATIONS
FILO   - Foreign Investment and Loan Office
FRG    - Federal Republic of Germany
GSS    - General Secondary School
MEdC   - Municipal Education Commiss. -
MOL    - Ministry of Labor
PEdC   - Provincial Education Commission
PIO    - Project Implementation Office
PPI    - Proposed Project Institution
R&D    - Research and Development
SEdC   - State Education Commission
SOE    - Statement of Expenditure
STS    - Secondary Technical School
SVS    - Secondary Vocational School
SWS    - Skilled Workers School
TA     - Technical Assistance
TTC    - Technical Teacher Training College
TTD    - University Technical Teacher ':raining Department
UBE    - Universal Basic Education
VTC    - Vocational Training Center
VTE    - Vocational and Technical Education
GLOSSARY
Key Provinces: Municipalities of Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin, and Provinces
of Jiangsu and Liaoning are called Key Provinces in this
report.



aL _ t,, ,AL L     UNILY
CHINA
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC    DATA  .........................................................           .   ...... iv
CREDIT AND PROJECTSUAY  ..........................................                       v
I.  VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION SYSTEM ..................                    1
A. Overview ................................................                   1
B. Secondary Vocational and Technical Education ............                   2
Secondary Technical Schools .............................                   3
Skilled Workers Schools .................................                   3
Secondary Vocational Schools ............................                   3
Demand and Supply of VTE Graduates ......................                   3
C. Technical Teacher Training System .......................                   4
D. Vocational and Technical Education Research .............                   4
E. Issues in the Vocational and Technical
Education System ......................................                  5
11tii7t4ninv rnf nA-il1i-4pq.                                               5
Availability of Equipment .................... ..........                   5
Teacher Qualifications and Utilization ..................                   5
School Administration ...................................                   6
Curriculum.                                            ..........   6
Industrial Liaison.                                                         7
Manpower Forecasting.                                                       7
F. Public Expenditure on Education.                                            7
G. Government Strategy and Objectives.                                         8
H. Bank Group Strategy.                                                        8
I. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement.                                       9
J. Experience with Past Lending .. .........................                  10
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
China in October/November 1988 comprising M.H. You (mission leader and senior
economist), R. Montague (architect), J. Stewart (technical educator and
engineer-consultant), C. Yang (general educator-consultant), J.K. Lee
(information system specialist-consultant), R. Ritchie (technical educator-
consultant); and an appraisal mission which visited China in January/February
1989 comprising M.H. You (mission leader), J. Steward, C. Yang, and J.K. Lee.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
PwN.
II.  THE    PROJECT ...............................................      10
A. Project Objectives                    ....................        10
D. Project Component.                                                11
Vocational Training Cnters.                                    11
Technical Teacher Training Colleges and University...
Technical Teacher Training Departmnts .15
VTE Research and Development Centrs .17
Training for Management of VTE System .18
Project Concentration on the Key Provinces .19
Project-Supported Improvements of VTE System                  20
III.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. AND IMPLMENTAHION .23
A. Costs .23
Summary of Costs .23
Basis of Cost Estimates .24
Foreign Exchange Component .25
Contingency Allowances .25
B. Financing .25
Capital Costs .25
Operating Costs.                                               2
C. Implementationp.                                                  2
Project Monitoring and Evaluation.                             28
Status of Project Preparation .29
D. Procurement .29
E. Disbursements .31
F. Accounts ard Audits.                                               3
IV. BE_EFITS AND RISKS    ..33
A. Benefits .33
B. Risks .34
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .34
LISTS OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
2.1  Vocational Training Centers - Enrollment Expansion Under Different Modes
of Training
2.2  TTCs and TTDs - Enrollment Expansion Under Different Modes of Training
3.1 Summary of Project Costs by Component
3.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
3.3  Overall Financing Plan by Category of Expenditure and Source of Funds
3.4  Procurement Arrangements
3.5  Disbursement Forecast



- iil -
ANNEXES
1.   The System for ProvLding Technieal/Vocational Education at the Secondary
Level
2   YVocational and Technical Education System
3.  basic Project Instit4tionx Data, VTCU, 1988
4.   Technical Asistance Program
5.   Basic Project Institutions Data, TTCs and TTDs, 1988
6.   Projections of Vocatlonal and Technical .ubject Teacher Demand by
Province, 1988-94
7.   Plan for Establishing Research Centers
8.   Project Concentration on Five Key Provinces
9.   Project Costs by Component and Category of Expenditure
10. Government Administrative Structure for Project Implementation
11. Project Implementation Schedule
12. Kay Implementation Dates
13. Estimated Schedule of Project's First Year Activities
14.  Project Monitoring Indicators
15. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
MAP IBRD No. 21582 - Location of the Project Institutes



- {v -
CHIN
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCTION PROJECT
Basic Data (1986)
Population                       1.06 billion
Adult Literacy rate                 80% (1987)
Per capita income                  US$300 JA
Education
Lower                           Post
PrimaXy   secondary    URRer secondary secondary
Grades                        1-5 or 6      7-9            10-12           13-16+
Enrollment (million)              132        41               8               4
Gross enrollment ratio (%)        107        52              16               4
Vocational and Technical Ecducation Subsector (1987)
No. of
TvpXe of institution                                   institutions   Enrollment
Teacher Training Schools
Technical Teacher Training
College                                                12          16,400
Preservice Secondary Schools
Secondary Technical Schools (STSs)                    2,854       1,222,000
Skilled Workers Schools (SWSs)                        3,548       1,040,000
Secondary Vocational Schools (SVSs)                   8,381       2,676,000
ExRenditure on Education (1986)
Total education expenditure as % of GNP:                                2.8%
Gov't education expenditure as % of total government expenditure: 11.4%
Distribution of public recurrent exp. on education:  Primary           33.0%
Secondary     46.0%
Higher         21.0%
/a The 1988 World Bank Atlas.



-V 
VOCAT OALAD  EHNCL  DCATION
Credit and ProietsGw_arvU
Borr,over:            People's Republic of China
Ffletsrvsficiax:      State Education Comission and Provincial/Municipal/
Government
Amount:               SDR 38.5 million (US$50.0 million)
ITems:                Standard with 35 year maturity
Relending Terms:      Annual interest rate of 2.5%, repayable over a period of
20 years, including a 5 year grace period
Proiect Obiectives
and Description:   Project objectives are to expand and upgrade the
secondary vocational and technical education (VTE) system
and the technical teacher training syscem that provides
teachers to secondary VTE schools. Thc project
emphasizes improvements in the quality of the prLject
institutions and institution building in the VTE system
at all levels, concentrating on five highly
industrialized provinces and municipalities. The project
has four components: (a) assist 59 secondary VTE schools
in 10 provinces and 3 municipalities to develop into
vocational training centers (VTC) which would serve as
models for further development of VTE; (b) assist 9
technical teacher training colleges (TTCs) and 3
university technical teacher training departments (TTDs)
to expand enrollments and upgrade the quality of
laboratory and workshop instruction; (c) establish a
national and 2 region   VTE research and development
(R&D) centers to resee zh and recommend policy measures
to improve the quality. efficiency, and cost-
effectiveness of the VTE system and to develop
inexpensive teaching materials and equipment for the VTE
schools; and (d) improve the management capability of the
VTE system. The proposed project would provide
construction, instructional equipment, books and teaching
materials, and related technical assistance (TA).
Parallel financing (approximately US$7.0 m) by the
Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) would finance equipment
and TA required for the establishment of the R&D centers.



- vi -
Benefits and Risks: The principal aneafit4 of the proposed project would be
an improvement in the quality of VTE in China through an
expansion in enrollment and improvement in quality and
cost-effectiveness of the VTE schools selected to become
MsCs; their subsequent wide demonstration effect
throughout the project provinces and muricpalities; and
enhanced planning and management capability in the VTE
system, particularly through development of a sorely
needed R&D capability concerned only with VTE. The
project would have an especially strong impact on five
heavily industrialized key provinces by concentrating 58%
of the proposed Credit and the contributions of the
Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) in those provinces.
The major risk of the project would lie in the
inexperience of provincial and municipal VTE authorities
in the implementation of a Bank Group-financed project.
Project implementation risks would be reduced
considerably by the participation of the State Education
Commission (SEdC) which is experienced in the
implementation of six Bank Group-financed education
projects. There is also a risk that over the long-term
new project approaches may not be sufficiently replicated
because of financial constraints in some provinces.
Prospects for new forms of financing from industry vould
be studied under the project. The Bank Group would
support this work by synthesizing relevant lessons oL
international experience.



*viL
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign    Total
-- (US$ million) ------
Vocational Training C-nters (59)                   28.6        20.0      48.6
Technical Teacher Training Colleges (9)
and Departmnts (3)                              10.9          8.9      19.8
Training for Management of VTE System               0.1         0.3       0.4
base  Cost                                      3LZ                    68
Physical Contingencies                              3.7         2.8       6.5
Price Contingencies                                 7.4         1.3       8.7
Total IDA Financed Project Cost                  0 7                   AAA
VTE R&D Centers (3) - FRG financed                  1.5         5.5       7.0
Total Proiect Cost                             52.. 291
Financing Plan:
IDA                                             16.7         33.3      50.0
Government                                      34.0          0.0      34.0
FRC                                              1.5          5.5       7.0
Total                                       52.2         38.8     91.0
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY        1990    1991    1992    1993       1994    1995
--------------- (US$  million) ---
Annual                        2.5    25.5    14.0       6.0       1.6     0.4
Cumulative                    2.5    28.0    42.0    48.0       49.6    50.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Note:  Figures in parenthesis deaote the number of project institutions.



- 1 -
CHINA
VOCATIONAL. AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
I. VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
A. Overview
1.1      The 'Compulsory Education Lawo of 1986 mandated universal basic
education (UBE) through grade 9 in cities and coastal areas by 1990, in towns
and villages with a medium level of develupment by 1995, and in more remote
areas at a rate commensurate with their economic development. The additional
impetus thus given to rapid expansion of the lower secondary school system
(grades 7-9) will subsequently generate increased pressure for admission to
upper secondary schools (grades 10-12). If the bulk of these applicants to
upper secondary schooling were to be accommodated in general secondary schools
(GSS), which prepare students for the national college entrance examination
and do not equip students with specific skills useful for employment, the
result would be great numbers of upper secondary school leavers who would be
unable to gain admission to any form of higher education and who might
experience difficulty in gaining employment. Yet at the same time, the
national economy is experiencing serious shortages of manpower with technical
skills.
1.2      The Government therefore has increasingly emphasized the development
of secondary vocational and technical education (VTE) to provide the technical
manpower required by the rapidly expanding national economy. This emphasis
has resulted in a 3.13 m increase in VTE annual enrollment during 1980-87 from
a base of 2.46 m in 1980. The Government's increasing emphasis on VTE is
further evidenced in the following objectives of the Education Reform of 1985
(Annex 1):
(a)  to attain a goal of 502 of all entrants to upper secondary schooling
in VTE by 1990 to meet the needs of social and economic development;
(b)  to link general education with the specialized courses in VTE;
(c)  to give "full play" to the initiatives of enterprises in developing
VTE; and
(d)  to develop programs to correct the serious shortage of specialized
teachers in VTE.
1.3      A World Bank sector report 1/ questioned the rationale for the
unl.form 50Z VTE enrollment and examined in detail the financial implications
of enrolling 50? of all upper secondary school students in China in VTE and
l/ Technical/Vocational Education for China's Development, August 7, 1987
(Report No. 6789-CHA).



- 2 -
concluded that the costs would be prohibitively high. The Government has
since com to the same conclusion and is proceeding to increase the percentage
of upper secondary school students enrolled in VTE at a more deliberate pace
than required by the 1990 target, consistent vith the financial capabilities
of the provinces and municipalities to fund the incremental costs of VTE, the
existing differences in development of secondary education, and labor market
requiremn ts among the various provinces and municipalities.
14       Human resource statistics available from the key industrial provinces
indicate a serious shortage of technical manpower. For example, engineers and
technicians comprise only 4.3Z of the five million employees in the machine
building industry. In addition, there are imbalances among levels of
technical manpower. For example, the current ratio of engineers to
technicians in industry, 7:1, is almost the reverse of what is found in
industrialized nations. In general, the skill level of Chinese workers is
low. Among 40 m technical workers in China in 1986, low level skilled workers
(grades 1-3 in an eight-grade scale) accounted for 71Z; middle level (grades
4-6), 26Z and high level (grades 7-8), only about 3!. This distribution is
too skewed to the lower end of the skills spectrum to constitute a labor force
commensurate with the nation's economic development objectives.2/ The
Government has set the goal of training 8 m new technicians and skilled
workers during the Seventh Five-Year Plan period (1986-1990).
B. Secondary Vocational and Technical Education
1.5      The VTE system is designed to prepare secondary school students for
employment, and consists of three types of schools (Annex 2): secondary
technical schools (STSs); skilled workers schools (SWSs); and secondary
vocational schools (SVSs). These schools accounted for about 40Z of the
upper secondary school enrollment in i987. The VTE schools are operated and
funded by a variety of types and levels of Government agencies and state
enterprises. This diversity of sponsorship is due to the Government decision
that individual provinces and municipalities and some larger enterp.,ises are
primarily responsible for operating their own schools as a means of obtaining
the required manpower.
1.6      The Central Government, however, plays no direct role in assuring
that the supply of VTE graduates is commensurate with labor market demands at
the local level. The SEdC, the Central Government's agency responsible for
education and training, is concerned primarily with maintaining standards of
quality of the VTE system, as it is for all forms of primary and secondary
education. Because the responsibility for financing and operating VTE schools
rests with the provincial and municipal governments, assisted in many
instances by local enterprises, it is at these levels that decisions regarding
increasing or decreasing enrollments in various specializations are made.
Economic forecasting data are, however, provided by the Central Government to
the provincial and municipal planning and education authorities as an aid in
planning economic and manpower development.
2/ By comparison, the skill levels are represented in the United States
labor force in the ratio of 10:57:33, respectively.



- 3 -
1.7      Secondary Technical Schools (STSs).  The STS was originally designed
to enroll mainly upper secondary graduates to be trained as cadres and
technicians. These schools have recently been instructed by the State
Education Coission (SEdC) to enroll mostly lower secondary graduates. Upper
socondary programs are for two or three years, depending on the
specialization, and lower secondary schools programs are three _o four years.
The longer length of the lower secondary school courses is intended to provide
a measure of the general education which the student would have received if
he/she had enrolled in a GSS. Graduates of STSs are guaranteed employment and
are assigned to jobs by the agency or enterprise that operates the school.
Under the broad supervision of the SEdC, the schools are operated by the
central technical ministries and their provincial and municipal bureaus, and
provincial or municipal education commissions (PEdCs or MEdCs). In 1987,
1.22 m students were enrolled in 2,854 STSs.
1.8      Skilled Workers Schools (SWSs).  The SWS is designed to produce
middle level skilled workers at entry level, which encompasses grades two to
four on an eight-grade scale. Applicants are generally lower secondary school
graduates. Course durations are three years for lower secondary graduates and
two years for upper secondary graduates. Graduates are well qualified in
narrow skills and are guaranteed employment by the Ministry of Labor (MOL)
which regulates admissions to conform to sponsored positions and provides
overall supervision of the schools. The SWSs are managed by central technical
ministries, provincial and municipal labor bureaus and large enterprises, with
about half of their resources coming from enterprises. The schools have close
linkages with employers and generally arrange substantial internships in the
sponsoring industry for their students prior to graduation. In 1987, 1.04 m
students were enrolled in 3,548 SWSs.
1.9      Secondary Vocational Schools (SVSs).  The SVS is designed to produce
middle level technicians and skilled workers. The SVSs have developed into
two distinct types of schools: agricultural schools, and predominantly urban
vocational schools. Most courses last three years, although some are for two
years. Although graduates are not guaranteed employment, demand for admission
is high and in some cities the ratio of applicants to admissions is seven to
one. local education authorities under the guidance of SEdC usually operate
these schools, but somie are operated by enterprises and some jointly by local
technical bureaus and local education commissions. In 1987, 2.3 m upper
secondary and 0.4 m lower secondary students were enrolled in 8,381 SVSs, a
16Z increase over the 1985 enrollment. The SVS system is expected to continue
to be the fastest growing portion of the VTE program, as additional upper GSSs
will be corverted into SVSs.
1.10     Demand and Supply of VTE Graduates.  Labor market demands and the
supply of STS and SWS graduates are maintained in an apparent balance as a
result of the system of sponsorship and employment guarantees and the manpcwer
forecasting methods employed. The numbers of students admitted to the STSs
are determined on the basis of manpower estimates prepared through surveys of
local enterprises or by industrial liaison committees, where they exist. The
MOL regulates admissions to the SWS to conform to the numbers and types of
positions that enterprises have agreed to sponsor. Because course durations
range from two to four years in the STS and two or three years in the SWS, one
year forecasts of demand have obvious limitations. Moreover, as the STS and



- 4 -
SWS graduates are guaranteed employment in their specializations, manpower
estimates that determine the volume of admissions to these schools tend to be
conservative. This system protects against an over-supply, but evidences of
under-supply abound.
1.11     The situation at the SVS level is dramatically different.  Estimates
of the types of specialized skills most likely to be needed in the local labor
market are prepared in the same manner as above, but these estimates tend to
be more optimistic and influenced by the national objective of increasing the
percentages of secondary school students enrolled in VTE (para. ..2). As the
SVS students are not given as intensive training in specializations as the STS
and SWS students and many are in the service sectors, it is believed that the
training in the SVS will make them adaptable to the labor market's needs and,
although not guaranteed employment, they will be able to find employment in
China's rapidly developing economy either in, or closely allied with, their
fields of training.
C. Technical Teacher Training System
1.12     The technical teacher training system of China consists of 12
technical teacher training colleges (TTCs) and technical teaciler training
departments (TTDs) of various universities and normal colleges. The TTCs were
established and are operated by PEdC/MEdC with the approval of the SEdC.
National direction and coordination are provided by the SEdC and, in the case
of the Tianjin TTC, also by the MOL. The TTC and TTD offer three types of
programs: (a) training for specialized theory teachers in a four-year B.S.
degree program; (b) two years of skill training leading to a certificate for
laboratory and workshop instructors; and (c) inservice training, typically two
years, for VTE teachers. In 1988, the TTCs, TTDs, and other higher
institutions produced about 10,000 new specialized teachers and workshop
instructors, corresponding to about 172 of the estimated annual requirements
of the VTE system for specialized teachers. The technical teacher training
system is in need of upgrading. As much as 65? of the course work is
conducted in classrooms or lecture halls, largely due to serious shortage of
trained teaching staff and appropriate instructional equipment and materials.
D. Vocational and Technical Education Research
1.13     Until the " Education Reform" of 1985 (para. 1.2), VTE research in
curriculum and other important issues related to VTE (paras. 1.15-1.23) was
only conducted on policy by government sectors. Since then, some measures
have been taken to develop VTE research, but the process is still in early
stages. A Division of VTE has been established within the Acaaemy for
Educational Research in Beijing with a professional staff of 13. Their
activities have been concentrated on theoretical issues in VTE, rather than on
operational research. The provinces and municipalities have established their
Institutes for Educational Science, which thus far have displayed little
interest in VTE and have not influenced VTE development in the provinces and
municipalities. Consequently, at a time when the VTE system is beset Dy a
host of growing problems, (paras. 1.15-1.24) the research capability to assist
in the development of appropriate solutions to these problems is woefully
inadequate.



-5-
E. Issues in the Vocational and Technical Education System
1.14     The issues affecting the development of VTE in China were first
identified by Bank staff in the VTE sector report (para. 1.3) and were later
confirmed by the Bank preappraisal and appraisal missions. Discussions by
these latter missions with officials of the SEdC, PEdCs, MEdCs, and each of
the proposed project institutions revealed a keen awareness of the problems
confronting the VTE system. The understanding of issues by these key
officials, together with their avowed intentions to correct these
shortcomings, constitutes a fertile environment for effective Bank Group
assistance.
1.15     Utilization of Facilities.  In all three types of VTE schools and in
the TTCs and TTDs as well, a classroom is generally reserved for the exclusive
use of one section of students, consistent with the present practice of
scheduling all classroom activity in the mornings and all workshop/laboratory
activizies in the afternoons. This practice results in an uneconomical use of
space, as classrooms are vacant in the afternoons and workshops and
laboratories are vacant in the mornings. Classroom, laboratory, and workshop
periods need to be rescheduled to ensure the most efficient utilization of
equipment and space. In some instances, if all rooms were fully utilized, the
number of teaching spaces would be sufficient to accommodate planned increases
in enrollments.
1.16     Availability of Equipment.  The shortage of equipment that exists in
all three types of VTE schools, TTCs, and TTDs is a more serious problem in
the short-run than even the overall shortage of qualified teachers. In
schools fortunate enough to have qualified teachers in adequate numbers, the
teachers are unable to work to full potential because they lack necessary
equipment. The percentage of required laboratory experiments and workshop
exercises that can be performed with available equipment is reported to be
about 50 to 60Z across the provinces. The availability of relevant equipment
to enable students to conduct the full range of required laboratory
experiments and to practice on workshop equipment is an absolute prerequisite
for the development of the quality VTE system that China requires.
1.17     Teacher Qualifications and UTtilization.  Teachers of general subjects
are generally well-qualified, but many of the teachers of technical subjects
and workshop instructors are much less qualified. This is especially true cf
teachers in the SVSs that have been recently converted from GSSs; many have
been transformed into technical teachers without adequate preparation.
Strenuous efforts are being made to upgrade the technical capabilities of
these teachers through inservice training programs, but the number of teacher
who require such training far exceeds the capacity of existing programs.
1.18     The number of teachers, without regard to qualifications, employed in
the VTE system appears to be more than adequate. Student-teacher ratios in
the three types of VTE schools (paras. 1.7-1,9) are extremely low, ranging
from 5:1 to 10:1, compared with international standards for these types of
schools of about 14:1. Such low student-teacher ratios and low average weekly
teaching hours result in uneconomical use -f teachers. Weekly teaching hours
per teacher average only 6 to 8 in the STSs and SWSs, 8 to 10 in the SVSs and
4 to 6 in the TTCs and TTDs. In add4tion, the balance between general subject



teachers and specialized teachers is often not appropriate. The result is
that general subject teaching is increased (Annex 2) or teachers with general
subject qualifications are required to teach specialized subjects. In either
case, the technical standards of the graduates suffer.
1.19     School Administration.  Although dedicated to the task of improving
the standards of their respective VTE schools, many of those in chargn of the
recently converted SVSs are former GSS principals or vice-principals with no
previous experience or training in VTE.   These administrators require
considerable training and practical experience to be able to carry out new
responsibilities such as curriculum organization, selection of new technical
teachers, employn3nt of workshop technicians, efficient use of workshops and
laboratories, ,.nd liaison with industry. In particular, leadership is needed
to generate and implement new ideas. The PEdC and MEdC therefore need to
review the credentials and performance of the VTE administrators within their
jurisdiction and to devise comprehensive training programs for those
administrators identified as not having the appropriate qualifications and
training.
1.20     The number of non-teaching staff in many VTE schools is very large;
in some cases, greater than the teaching staff. Overall, in 1987 non-teaching
staff comprised about 402-55Z of the total VTE staff, much higher than
international standards (about 25Z). Also, in many schools the average salary
of non-teaching staff is higher than that of teachers. The result is that the
funds being provided by provincial and municipal governments are not
channelled into the most important function of the schools: the teaching
program itself.
1.21     Curriculum.  In most countries, the foundation of all VTE is basic
trade courses.   Many of China's VTE schools place more emphasis on the
service sector of industry, rather than on basic trade courses. This is due
to the additional cost of basic trade courses and greater difficulty in
recruiting qualified teachers. Specialized theory and practice courses, which
typically represent about 50-70Z of the VTE curriculum (Annex 2), are much
less uniform alxd standardized than the general education portion because they
are developed from a variety of sources. Greater consistency in the content
and interpretation of specialized courses would be achieved if teachers taught
both the theory and related practical work or supervised practical work
instruction. This, together with better design of courses by te3chers trained
in methodology, would help to reduce the present variations in the standards
of graduates among the provinces and municipalities.
1.22     Job descriptions in industry are narrow, requiring proficiency in a
relatively few tasks. Curricula in all types of VTE schools are
correspondingly narrow and, in varying degrees, are both the cause and result
of the narrow job descriptions in industry. This narrow training reduces the
flexibility of graduates to cope with innovation and technology changes and
also reduces their mobility from one kind of job to another.  The narrow
curriculum also does not provide a sufficient base for the more advanced
training which will be required as advanced technological processes are
introduced into the future industries of China.



-7-
1.23     Industrial Liaison.  Efforts are made in varying degrees by the
provincial and municipal authorities to determine the needs of local
industrial enterprises on a year to year basis in order to determine the
number of students to be admitted to various fields of training offered by the
local VTE school. A much broader effort is also required to ascertain whether
the curriculum is appropriate to produce a graduate with all the skills that
future employers would require.  The need for improved linkages with industry
is especially critical because of the narrowness of the training provided in
typical VTE schools. Industrial liaison committees, which exist in one form
or another at the national, provincial/municipal, and institutional levels,
need to be strengthened to ensure that the school's curriculum is well-
targeted to the actual needs of industry. Properly designed tracer studies of
VTC graduates would produce the type and volume of data that would enable the
VTE authorities to determine the degree to which their training matched
employers' needs and would be of valuable assistance to the industrial liaison
committees' deliberations on desired curricula changes.
1.24     Manpower Forecasting.  The Labor Contract System, which will allow
employment of workers on a contract basis, will have serious repercussions on
the present system of determining admissions to the STS and SWS if it gains
widespread adoption, as expected. The present sponsorship system would be
undermined if sponsoring firms are not assured that STS and SWS graduates
would remain employed in the spcnsoring firms. The MOL, which regulates
admissions to the SWS completely on the basis of sponsorship (para. 1.8),
would be most seriously affected. Employers of STS and SWS graduates could
experience shortages of skilled workers if the graduates should transfer to
another employer. This will produce a heightened demand for regional, longer
term manpower forecasting, as opposed to the present short term forecast based
upon individual firms' willingness to sponsor trainees. Such improved
manpower forecasting will be possible only with the participation of broader
based, more effective industrial liaison committees above, aided by the
improved long range forecasting techniques to be introduced through the
proposed project and to be adapted to the Chinese environment by the project
R&D centers.
F. Public Expenditure on Education
1.25     From 1980 to 1986, China increased public recurrent and capital
expenditures for education by 152 and 21? per year, respectively. During the
same period, the share of the total education expenditures (recurrent and
capital) as a percent of the total national budget 3/ averaged 11.62.
Education expenditures at all levels comprised only 1.82 of GNP in 1986,
(almost constant during 1980-86), which is much smaller than those in other
developing countries (about 41 - 52) and developed countries (62 or higher).
The State Council recently proposed increases in the level of education
expenditures that would increase education's share of GDP as follows: 1988,
3Z; 1990, 42; and 1995, 5Z. The People's Congress will review this proposal
in March/April, 1989. In 1986, about 46Z of recurrent expenditures in
education was allocated to secondary education. It is estimated that about
10 of the total secondary recurrent expenditures was allocated to VTE.
Recurrent expenditures per VTE student in 1987 averaged about Y 876 (Y 480 for
3/ The national budget includes expenditures by the central, provincial,
municipal and prefecture governments.



-8-
SVS, Y 1,000 for SWS, and Y 1,200 for STS). and about Y 2.200 for TTC.4/ The
costs of the VTE schools are kept high by low student-teacher ratios and low
average weekly teaching hours (para. 1.18) and high proportion of
administrative and support staff relative to teaching staff (para. 1.20).
These issues will be futher explored in a seminar on education finance to be
conducted in China in July, 1989, organized by the Bank Group and SEdC.
G. Government Strategy and Objectives
1.26     The Government recognizes that the VTE sector is the weakest link in
China's education system. The Seventh Five-Year Plan gives top priority to
the development of the VTE sector, and the next plan is also expected to
accord high priority to VTE. To alleviate the shortage of intermediary level
manpower, the Education Reform of 1985 identified secondary VTE education as
bearing a major burden in the preparation of technicians and skilled workers
(para. 1.2). The Government has made several major policy changes to achieve
its objectives in meeting the demand for technicians and skilled manpower.
The policy changes include "training before empJoyment" as a principle which
shifts responsibility for training from the enterprises to schools and
individuals. In still another major policy change, the 1986 regulations on
recruitment by state enterprises established standards for employment of
persons through the "Labor Contract System." These standards allow the
employment of workers, on a contract basis, using employment criteria based
solely on the workers' skill levels. The reg lations are expected to create
an upward spiral of demand for technical manpower, which will have a major
impact on the development of VTE. The Government recognizes that success in
development of VTE will be crucial in provIsion of trained technical manpower
in quantities adequate to meet the requirements of China's growing economy.
H. Bank Group Strategy
1.27     To date, the Bank Group has focused much of its attention in the
education sector on higher education, in accordance with the Government's
earlier priorities. Since the announcement of the wEducation Reform' in 1985,
the Bank Group's lending strategy has evolved around three principal
Government objectives: (a) to universalize nine-year basic education; (b) to
expand upper secondary VTE enrollment; and (c) to improve the efficiency of
current enrollment planning, job assignment, and management of higher
education. The Bank Group's involvement in basic education began with the
education component of the Garnsu Provincial Development Project and a sector
report on the production and distribution of textbooks and preparation of a
project in this area. The Bank Group has recently approved a Teacher Training
Project (Credit 1908-CHA) to assist the Government in its effort to achieve
UBE directed at the expansion and improvement of inservice training of lower
secondary school teachers (73Z of teachers are currently unqualified). In
addition, in view of pressing needs for scientific and professional manpower,
the Bank Group will continue its strategy of further strengthening higher
education through development of key research laboratories.
4/  Unit recurrent cost is average cost of 27 VTCs and 8 TTCs of the
project.



-9-
1.28     The proposed first VTE project in China, as part of the Bank's
lending strategy above, is designed to assist the Government in its efforts to
expand and upgrade the VTE system to meet the growing demands for technical
manpower. Under the *Compulsory Education Law' of 1986, local governments are
responsible for achieving UBE and financing UBE and secondary VTE education.
The Bank Group assistance is therefore directed at provincial and municipal
governments, as in the teacher training project. However, as policies in VTE
are decided and prescribed at the national level, planned actions leading to
greater cost-efficiency and effective management would be instituted also at
the national level. Hajor planned improvements in vocational and technical
teacher qualifications and utilization, secondary VTE and technical teacher
training curriculum, equipment and facilities utilization, and VTE management
capabilities will be critical to achievi1ig increased cost-efficiency and
responsiveness of the VTL system to changing needs in key economic sectors.
1.29     Accordingly, the Bank Group would focus its support on:
(a)  conversion of selected VTE schools to serve as vocational training
centers (VTCs) which would become models for future development and
investment in VTE;
(b)  improvement and expansion of technical teacher training institutions
to help alleviate the shortage of trained technical teachers and to
upgrade the level of teaching in VTE schools;
(c) establishment of research and development (R&D) capabilities in VTE
at national and regional levels; and
(d) institution building, focusing on management, planning, pedagogy,
curriculum development, student counseling, and coordination with
industries/employers.
I. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
1.30     As part of its support to help China's success with its ongoing
economic reforms, the Bank Group has identified the rapid growth and
qualitative improvement of the VTE system as one of the critical elements for
smooth progress in implementating the reforms. The Bank Group's extensive
international experience in VTE, knowledge about the Chinese educational
system through six education projects under implementation, and its recent
policy dialogue through the VTE sector work (paras. 1.3 and 1.14) puts it in a
unique position to l;elp the Government in its efforts to expand and improve
the VTE system rapidly. Since VTE development is largely a provincial/
municipal responsibility, the Bank Group involvement will allow stronger
coordination among governmental bodies, particularly SEdC, provincial/
municipal autnorities, and MOL, which will have their role to play in
improving the quality of the VTE system and its responsiveness to changing
skill needs.



- 10 -
1.31     Through this project, the Bank Group is beginning the development of
a new strategy for supporting education in China.  Previous projects
implemented by SEdC have typically spread resources relativaly equally among
provinces and municipalities. In a departure from these practices, the
present project would focus on five highly industrialized provinces and
municipalities (Liaoning, Jiangsu, Beijing, Tianjin and Shanghai), hereafter
referred to as the key provinces, which will serve as models for VTE develop-
ment and effective use of resources in the VTE system.
J. Experience with Past Lending
1.32     Nine Bank Group-financed projects in China have supported education
under three ministries. Six are being implemented through the SEdC. The
first project, the University Development Project (Loan 2021/Credit 1167-CHA,
US$200 m), assisted 28 major national universities in the fields of science
and technology. It was approved in 1981 and was satisfactorily completed.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) dated September 30, 1987 indicates that
the project met its objectives of increasing enrollments and enhancing the
quality of graduates in science and engineering, and helped to improve the
quality of university management. Another project was approved in 1983 for
the development of polytechnic and television education (1411-CHA, US$85 m).
The Second University Development Project (Credit 1551-CHA, US$145 m approved
in 1985) is helping to strengthen education in engineering, economics and
finance in 35 universities.  In 1986, the Ptovincial Universities Project was
approved (Credit 1671-CHA, US$120 m) to expand enrollmenits and improve the
quality and management of provincial higher education programs with special
emphasis on teacher education programs in normal universities. Under the
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, two loans/credits
were extended in 1982 and 1984 for the development of professional
agricultural manpower (Credit 1297-CHA, Loar 2444/Credit 1500-CHA, total
US$144 m). A Rural Health and Medical Education Project approved in 1984
(Credit 1472-CHA, US$85 m) included about US$43 m for support of medical
universities under the Ministry of Public Health. The Gansu Provincial
Development Project approved in 1987 (Loan 2812/Credit 1793-CHA) has an
education component (US$20 m) that will assist the province to meet cbjectives
for the education reform. It is also the first operation specifically
focussing on basic education, followed by a Teacher Training Project in 1988
(Credit 1908-CHA, US$50 m) to support UBE in 14 selected provinces and three
municipalities. Implementation of the projects is satisfactory. Policy
initiatives are being implemented as agreed and other quantitative and
qualitative targets in ongoing projects are generally being achieved as
scheduled by provincial and municipal education commissions.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1      The objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government in
its efforts tc expand and improve the secondary VTE system and thereby provide
qualified manpower required for key economic sectors. Emphasis is on
improving the quality of the VTE schools and teacher training systems and on



- 11 -
institution building. The project would also focus on formulation and
implementation of measures to make the VTE system more efficient, cost
effective and responsive to changing manpower needs of the economy. The
specific project objectives are to:
(a) develop selected VTE schools to become 'centers of excellence" (VTCs)
and to serve as models for other VTE schools in the provinces and
municipalities in which they are located;
(b) increase the output of urgently needed middle level technicians and
skilled workers and qualified technical teachers;
(c) upgrade the quality of the secondary VTE school system and related
technical teacher training institutions;
(d) establish a research and development (R&D) capability in VTE; and
(e) strengthen the management capability of key VTE administrators in
SEdC, PEdC, MEdC, and project institutions.
B. Proiect Components
2.2      The proposed project would comprise the following components:
(a) construction, laboratory and workshop equipment, library books and
teaching materials, and related technical assistance (TA) for 59
VTCs, 9 TTCs, 3 TTDs, and 3 VTE R&D centers; and
(b) TA to strengthen the management of the VTE system at all levels.
Vocational Training Centers (VTCs)
2.3      Fifty-nine VTE schools, selected from the key STSs, SWSs and SVSs in
10 provinces and 3 municipalities (see Table 2.1), would be developed under
the proposed prcject into VTCs with the following objectives:
(a)  to upgrade the q_ality of curricula, teaching, and laboratory and
workshop exercises while increasing the numbers of graduates;
(b) to serve as model for future development of the VTE institutions
within the province or municipality where the VTCs would be located
by demonstrating the effectiveness of the above improvements; and
(c) to multiply the benefits of the better equipped laboratories and
workshops by providing inservice training and extending facility use
on a part-time basis to substantial numbers of students and their
instructors in nearby VTE schools.
2.4      The VTCs would offer three types of training programs:
(a) three-or four-year programs for lower secondary school
graduates;



- 12 -
(b) long-and short-term inservice training (one year or several
months or weeks) for enterprise employees to upgrade their
technical skills; and
(c) part-time training of students and teachers from nearby VTE
schools.
2.5      The proposed project institutions were selected on the basis of two
distinctly different objectivest one was concerned with the long term; the
other, the short term. Consequently, 31 VTCs would be concentrated in the
five heavily industrialized provinces (key provinces) where demand for
technically trained personnel is acute. Efforts in these areas are expected
to produce an immediate impact upon the supply of skilled workers.  One of the
10 VTCs to bs established in Liaoning Province would serve as an audio-visual
center for the five key provinces by producing and distributing VTE audio-
visual teaching aids. Conversely, 28 VTCs are proposed to be located among 8
provinces. While satisfying manpower needs within the area of the VTCs, they
are intended to provide a demonstration role of the VTC as a model for center
of excellence' and experience in VTC training to the provincial decision
makers. Project provinces/municipalities were selected on the basis of the
stage of development of their economies and education systems, their interest
in and commitment to the VTC concept, commitment to project-supported measures
to improve VTE systems (para. 2.29), ability to defray the incremental
recurrent costs of the VTCs and to repay in foreign exchange their share of
the proposed Credit. Within these parameters and the limitation imposed by
the amount of the Credit, project institutions were selected by the SEdCs,
PEdCs, and MEdCs on the basis of their ability to meet the following
requirements:
(a) strong leadership dedicated to the improvement of VTE;
(b) sufficient development in terms of teaching staffs and facilities to
be able to benefit fully from the project;
(C) geographical location that would facilitate provision of inservice
training to employees of enterprises and part-time training to
students from nearby VTE schools; and
(d) curriculum of training programs that would have a direct impact on
the improvement of the labor force in the major economic sectors in
the province or municipality.
2.6      With the assistance to be provided by the proposed project, the 59
VTE schools selected to become VTCs would be greatly improved over the typical
VTE schools. All VTCs, unlike many VTE schools, would possess all the
classrooms, laboratories, and workshops required by the curricula. Every VTC
would be provided with a sufficient quantity of up-to-date equipment to enable
students to perform all the laboratory experiments and workshop exercises
prescribed by the curricula, as opposed to the low percentages in these
activities in other VTE schools (para. 1.16). Because of the need for better
trained teachers to utilize the more expensive and sophisticated equipment to
be provided by the project, priority would be given to the participation of
the VTC technical teachers in the project's extensive teacher upgrading
programs (para. 2.11) and to the recruitment by VTCs of technical teachers
from the expanded and upgraded technical teacher training (para. 2.12) to be
provided by the project. The curricula would be updated and made more



- 13 -
relevant to the needs of industry through the efforts of the proposed R&D
centers (para. 2.17) and through the increased effectiveness of provincial and
municipal industrial liaison committees concerned with VTE (para. 2.29(f)).
The combination of all of these improvements--better facilities and equipment,
better teachers, and better curricula--would produce graduates better able to
perform the tasks required at present and eventually able to perform a wider
variety of tasks than now required.
2.7      Quantitative Expansion.  The proposed project would enable the 59
VTCs not only to improve the quality of their training programs but also to
increase greatly the number of students to whom they could offer cuch improved
training. Table 2.1 summarizes the present enrollments and planned expansion
of the proposed VTCs under different modes of training (See Annex 3 for more
details).



- 14 -
Table 2  1   VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS - ENROLLMENT EXPANSION UNDER
DIFFERENT MODES OF TRAINING
1988                1994
province/         No. of       Regular    Inserv.  Regular   Inserv.
municipality      VTCr         enroll-    student  enroll-   student
ment       annual   ment        annual
total               total
Beijing               8         5,294       5,989    8,890    13,985
Tianjin               2         1,539         166    2,400      1,920
Shanghai              2           862           0    2,000        440
Liaoning /a          10         6,991       1,256   11,430      4,524
Jiangsu               9         7,149         702    9,749      5,505
Key provinces
subtotal         31       21,835       8,113   34.469    26.374
Annual increase                                     8.0%      22.02
Shandong              4         3,355          70    5,700      4,716
Hubei                 6         4,903         160    6,160      2,105
Hunan                 4         3,526         375    4,700        390
Zhejiang              2         1,323         477    2,200      1,240
Sichuan               6         3,785       1,599    6,620      2,765
Shaanxi               2         2,543         414    3,100        300
Fujian                2         1,227           0    1,770        300
Guangdong             2         1,468         699    2,100      2,490
Subtotal           28        22,132      3,794   32,350    14,306
Annual increase                                     7.02      25.02
Total              59        43,967     11,907   66,819    40,680
Annual increase                                     7.0%      23.OZ
5 Key provinces
as Z of total    53Z            502         68Z      522        65Z
La  One of the 10 VTCs would serve the key provinces as an audio-visual center
(para. 2.5).
2.8      The combined enrollments of students in the regular full-time
programs of the 59 project VTCs would increase from 44,000 in 1988 to a
planned 66,800 in 1994, a 522 increase. Both the existing and planned
enrollments will be divided about equally between the key provinces and the
other 8 provinces that comprise the network for future expansion of the VTC
concept.



- 15 -
2.9      In addition, as part of the effort to utilize more fully the existing
facilities and the equipment to be provided under the proposed proiect, these
centers would expand the number of part-time training programs that enroll
workers already employed in industry.  The number of such inservice trainees
is projected to increase from the present 11,900 to 40,700 annually in 1944.
an increase of almost 2422.  These programs would be mostly offered in the
evenings.
2.10     Nearby VTE school students, together with their laboratory and
workshop instructors, would perform laboratory experiments and workshop
exercises in the VTCs under the tutelage of VTC instructors on equipment that
is not available in their cwn schools. The program's objectives are to
achieve a modest percentage increase, in the neighborhood of 202 to 602, in
the experiments and workshop practices required by the curriculum that the
visiting students wouid be able to perform. The experiments and workshop
exercises would complement those performed in the visiting students' own
schools, but in most cases would not be sufficient to meet 100Z of the
curriculum requirements. Because of scheduling constraints VTCs are likely to
have difficulties in accommodating much more than about 50Z of their full-time
students enrollments. This would translate into an average of about five
nearby VTE schools per VTC, with a total of about 21,200 students to receive
instruction annuallly under this p.ogram in the VTCs. A detailed plan that
would include daily schedules for the use of VTC laboratories and workshops by
students from nearby schools would be prepared by each VTC principal by June
1990. These would be reviewed by the SEdC and representative samples would be
forwarded to the Association for comment.
2.11     Technical Assistance.  TA (Annex 4) would be included in the project
to assist in upgrading the specialized knowledge, pedagogical and management
skills of the VTC staff. Sixteen staff-months of international expert services
would be provided to assist in the upgrading of the teaching staffs of all
VTCs. Pedagogical experts in machine shop work, building construction trades,
electrical technology, electronics, food processing, finance and accounting
management, audio-visual technology and computer application would conduct
week-long or month-long seminars in four strategically-located centers. With
an average group size of 30 trainees, approximately 640 VTC staff are expected
to benefit from this program. The project would also include two months'
pedagogical courses to be offered to 840 VTC teachers. These courses would be
taught by 298 local experts. In addition, approximately 1600 VTC staff would
b, enrolled in one-year programs in pedagogy, and vocational specialization in
the local TTCs, TTDs, and 330 and 55 supervisory staff (including TTC/TTD
supervisors) would be provided with one and three months of management train-
ing, respectively. Three hundred and sixty VTC practice instructors would be
sent to factories and companies for two months for upgrading training in their
specializations and practical knowledge. A substantial overseas training
program would be included in the project to allow 86 teachers and supervisory
staff to study for one year as visiting scholars in overseas universities to
upgrade knowledge of their fields and to become more familiar with vocational
training methodologies used in industrialized countries.
Technical Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs) and University Technical Teacher
Training DePartments (TTDs)
2.12      As the viability of the proposed VTC concept is heavily dependent
upon an adequate supply of well-trained technical teachers, the proposed



- 16 -
project would upgrade nine technical teacher training colleges (TTCs) and
three technical teacher training departments (TTDs) in parallel with the
conversion of the 59 project VTE schools into VTCs. Through the provision of
additional facilities, instructional equipment, teaching materials, and TA,
the proposed project would enable these institutions to complete 1002 of all
labGratory experiments and workshop exercises prescribed by the curriculum,
and to improve the quality of their instructional programs while greatly
increasing their enrollments. Like the VTCs, the project TTCs and TTDs would
aultiply the benefits of the better equipped institutions by extending their
use to a substantial number of students under different modes of training.
2.13     Table 2.2 summarizes the present enrollments and planned expansion of
the proposed TTCs and TTDs under different modes of training (see Annex 5 for
more details).
Table 2.2: TTCs and TTDs - ENROLLMENT EXPANSION UNDER DIFFERENT
MODES OF TRAINING
1988                   1994
Regular     Inserv.   Regular    Inserv.
enrollment  student   Enrollment student
TTCs and TTDs
Beijing United University, TTC        1,178          0        1,800       760
Dandong Normal College, TTD             400        400          700       440
Changzhou TTC                           478        400        1.850       650
Tianjin TTC                           1,277        500        1,200       730
Shanghai TTC                          1,820          0        2,500    1,080
Key provinces Subtotal             5,153      1,300        8.050    3,660
Annual growth rate                                            82       192
Nanchang TTC                          1,724        150        2,630       730
Hebsi TTC                             1,001         60        2,320       500
Hunan TTC                               445         50        1,500       500
Henan TTC                             1,333        180        3,000    2,500
Jilin TTC                             1,221        505        2,900    1,300
Zhejiang Engineering College (TTD)    329           33          400       280
Shandong Agr. Mech. College (TTD)       315          0          700       500
Subtotal                            6,368        978       13,450    6 310
Annual Growth Rate                                            132       362
Total                              11,521      2.278       21,500    9,970
112      282
Key Provinces as Z of total             45Z        57Z          372       372



2.14     Quantitative Expansion.  With an annual growth rate of 8?, the
regular student's enrollment in the TTD and TTCs in the five key provinces
will increase from 5,200 in 1988 to 8,000 in 1994. The regular student's
enrollment in 1994 in the TTCs and TTDs in the other seven project provinces
will increase by 7,082 students with an annual growth rate of 13X.  By
completion of the project, enrollments in all project TTCs and TTDs will
increase by 861 to a total enrollment of 21,500 in 1994.  The capacity of
inservice teacher training programs in the project TTCs and TTDs would be
drastically increased.  The TTCs in the fivs key provinces would expand their
inservice training by two folds.  In the other seven provinces, inservice
teacher training would grow at a rate of 36Z annually and reach about 6,310
trainees by 1994.  By opening their facilities to non-project TTCs and TTDs
and other secondary VTE institutions in the vicinity, the project TTCs and
TTDs would offer the benefit of using their advanced equipment to a substan-
tial number of students and VTE teachers in the 12 provinces. The 12 project
TTCs and TTDs would also provide training for the less developed provinces and
minority regions by enrolling 'TE teacher trainees from those provinces and
regions. The estimated such enrollment would be more than 5,000 annually by
1994.
2.15     Technical assistance would include a large overseas and domestic
staff development program (Annex 4). The overseas program would comprise 7
study tours of about 20 days each to enable 16 VTE administrators to become
familiar with the operation of similar institutio.as in industrialized
countries and 42 scholarships of one year duration for university studies in
the teachers' fields of specialization. The domestic training program would
include participation by 314 teachiers in two months' pedagogical training
courses and 401 teachers in one year university pedagogical training courses.
In addition, 66 workshop instructors would receive two months of training in
local industries. Sixty local experts would conduct 3-month management and
pedagogy training courses. Seventeen foreign experts would visit China in
one-month terms to conduct weekly or monthly seminars in management and
pedagogy.
VT! Research and Development (R&D) Centers
2.16     The objective of this project component is to develop an R&D
capability that would address the problems besetting the VTE system
(paras. 1.15-1.24), including uneconomical use of facilities and equipment,
imbalances between teaching and ncn-teaching staff, and inadequate link with
industry, and narrow and flexible curriculum. The proposed project would
assist in the establishment of a national center to be located in Beijing as
part of the Academy for Educational Research under the SEdC, a regional center
on the campus of the Tianjin TTC under the MOL, and a regional center in
Shanghai on a site to be determined.  Each regional center would have ready
access to the parent institution's laboratory and workshop equipment, but
would have its own office space, office and research equipment, and research,
adminiAtrative, and support staff. No new construction would be required, as
the parent institutions would provide existing space to the centers. The
project would provide the centers with office and specialized equipment, books
and international periodicals, and related TA.



- 18 -
2.17     Roles and functions of the proposed national and regional R&D
centers, areas of R&D activities, and division of specific responsibilities
among the three centers are detailed in Annex 7. Major activities of the
centers include reviewing with industry the desirability of broadening the
curricula to increase the versatility of VTE graduates, and proposing measures
and timing for accomplishing such revisions, where deemed desirable. The
Steering Committee would be established in the national R&D center to ensure
smooth and effective interagency coordination (Annex 7, page 3). The MOL
would be an important member of the Committee, as it will be responsible for
the administration of the regional R&D center in Tianjin. This center would
provide several important services including job analysis, development of
training programs and materials, and equipment studies (Annex 7, page 4). The
directors of the three centers have been named. There are 13 and 35
researchers at the national and Tianjin regional R&D centers, respectively,
tat no researcher has yet been appointed at Shanghai Regional RED center. The
recruits are expected to come from university and college faculties, industry,
ard fellows who have recent'y completed overseas training in some VTE special-
izat'on.
2.18     The Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) has provided a commitment to
provide parallel financing for the costs of equipment, local and overseas
training, and foreign specialists required for the R&D centers to assume the
roles and functions described in Annex 7. A FRG mission to China in April/May
prepared terms of reference for the Steering Committee and detailed action
plans for each R&D center. The agreement on the action plans by the
Government of China, the FRG and the Association, and the completion of all
necessary arrangements for the provision of the FRG grant would be the condi-
tions for the Credit effectiveness. Detailed costing of the various elements
of the program has not yet been completed, but the program is expected to
amount to approximately US$7 m.
Training for Management of VTE System
2.19     The primary objective of this proposed component is to improve the
management capability of the VTE system at the national, provincial,
municipal, and project institution levels. This component would concentrate
on management principles and techniques applicable to the following functions
and aim exclusively at the top VTE echelons at all levels:
(a) VTE enrollment planning and statistical data processing and analysis;
(b) VTE financial and personnel management;
(c) evaluation of VTE curriculum in terms of changing skill requirements;
(d) evaluation of VTE institutions and monitoring standards of VTE
graduates; and
(e) planning for physical facility and instructional equipment and
utilization.
2.20     This project component would provide extensive local and overseas
training programs for VTE administrators at all levels and specialist
services. Under the domestic training program, 25 SEdC and PEdC/MEdC
administrators, and 55 TTC/TTD administrators would be sent to selected local



- 19 -
universities for three-month training courses covering various aspects of VTE
management. Another 90 administrators selected from SEdC and PLdC/MEdC, and
330 administrators selected from the project institutions would participate in
one-month seminars conducted by foreign management specialists (10 staff-
months) on management skills at local universities. Fifty-four staff-months
of local experts services would also be provided to SEdC, PEdCs/MEdCs, and the
project institutions to assist them in modernizing VTE management. Under the
overseas staff development program, month-long study tours would be organized
for seven VTE managers in SEdC, 12 PEdC/MEdC administr-tors, and 16 selected
TTC presidents and VTC principals to learn experiences of similar type of
overseas' institutions in administration, financing, and utilization of
facilities and equipment. In addition, six TTC/TTD and VTC administrators
would be sent abroad for one-year study program to learn specifically modern
management including VTE management information system.
2.21     The SEdC, PEdCs, and MEdCs have prepared detailed action plans
including implementation timetables and TORs for the proposed TA for the VTCs,
TTCs!TTDs, and VrE management'. These were discussed during negotiations, and
the Govertment provided assurances that. it would carry out the TA programs
(Annex 4) as agreed with the Association.
Proiect Concentration oa the Key Provinces
2.22     Previous Bank Group-financed education projects in China provided
assistance to institutions in a large number of provinces and municipalities
to achieve a wide geographic effect. In a departure from this practice, it
was decided to concentrate a major share of the proposed Credit in a limited
number of provinces and municipalities to achieve a greater immediate impact
that would stimulate a duplication effect. To be selected as a key province,
each province or municipality had to: (a) be already heavily industrialized
with an urgent need for greater numbers of trained technical personnel;
(b) have a relatively well developed primary and secondary school system, and;
(c) have the financial resources to make an early beginning in replicating the
improvements in VTE agreed between the Government and IDA for the proposed
project (para. 2.29), once these benefits have been demonstrated.
2.23     The selected key provinces satisfy the above criteria (Annex 8).
They have greater percentages of their populations with higher educational
achievements and, most importantly, have higher proportions of students in the
lower and upper secondary school levels at which the proposed project is
targeted. In each key province, the industrial sector dominates all other
economic activities, ranging from 52Z to 732 of the national income. Their
combined industrial output represents 33.8Z of China's gross value of
industrial output. This level of industrial output helps to ensure that the
key provinces have the financial resources to replicate the project
improvements in VTE.
2.24     Thirty-one VTE schools would be converted into VTCs in the five key
provinces to produce a significant increase in enrollment. Their combined
enrollments in the regular programs are expected to rise from 21,800 in 1988
to 34,500 in 1994, an increase of 58Z. Inservice student enrollments are
planned to increase about three fold during the same period. Of equal
importance would be the higher standards of training that would result from
the project and which would have wide demonstration effects. The major



- 20 -
specialties to be assisted in the five key provinLes are machining, electrical
installation and repair, electronics, chemical engineering, printing, computer
technology, food processing, materials technology and accounting/financial
management.
2.25     One of the 31 VTCs in the key provinces would serve as an Audio-
Visual Center and would be established in Dalian, Liaoning province. This
center provided with appropriate equipment and TA would develop educational
audio and visual tape. based on the curriculum developed and tested by the R&D
centers (para. 2.17) and disseminate them to the project institutions within
the key provinces.
2.26     Each of the key provinces has its own TTC or TTD which it can
regulate to keep pace with the expansion of the VTE system. These are
included in the proposed project.  Regular enrollments in these institutions
are planned to increase from 5,200 in 1988 to 8,000 in 1994, a 56Z increase
(Table 2.2). Enrollments in inservice study programs are expected to increase
from 1,300 to 3,660, about twice more. Ifn addition to the provision of much
needed instructional equipment, these institut`.ons would benefit from the
upgrading of tha technical and pedagogical qualifications of their teaching
staff that would be made possible by the large local and overseas training
programs included in the TA portion of the proposed project (Annex 4).
2.27     The decision to locate the three proposed R&D centers in Beijing,
Shanghai, and Tianjin lends further importance to these key provinces. The
innovative concepts in VTE that would be conceived and developed in the R&D
centers (Annex 7) would be tested in pilot projects in the 30 VTCs to be
established and 5 TTCs/TTD to be upgraded in the key provinces. In addition,
project-supported improvements in the VTE system, such as strengthening VTC
ties with industry and improving the effectiveness of industrial liaison
committees (para. 2.29(f)), would also be field tested in these industrial key
provinces.
2.28     The concentration of such a large share of the proposed Credit and
FRG contributions (about 592 of US$57.0 m equivalent in total external
financing) in these five key provinces is expected to result in a significant
increase in over a short period in the number of students enrolled in VTE.
This allocation would direct resources where demand for better trained
personnel is greatest. Morever, such concentration would produce an
integrated package of relevant institutions and pilot projects - VTCs, TTCs
and TTDs, R&D centers, and audio-visual center - that would result in a
coordinated development of VTE in the key provinces. Expected success of the
proposed project in the key provinces would generate wide demonstration
effects not only for the key provinces but also other 12 project provinces.
Project-Supported Improvements of the VTE System
2.29     The SEdC, project PEdCs and MEdCs have agreed to undertake during
project implementation period (1989-94) the following measures to make the VTE
system at all levels more efficient, cost-effective and responsive to changing
needs:



- 21 -
(a) to ensure that high utilization rates would be realized to make more
effective use of facilities and instructional equipment, starting
September 1990 the VTCs, TTCs, and TTDs would abandon the present
practice of scheduling classes only in the mornings and laboratories
and workshop activities in the afternoons (para. 1.15). Instead, all
the activities would be scheduled in both mornings and afternoons
throughout the school year. All non-project VTE schools would also
implement the above measure by 1997;
(b)  the VTCs, TTCs and TTDs would be unable to fund from their present
budget the additional recurrent costs incurred by participating
nearby secondary VTE schools (para. 2.10) and others (para. 2.14) for
maintenance, repair, and spare parts for the newly equipped
laboratories and workshops. Arrangements to share these costs by
assessing users' fees upon participating schools would be cumbersome
and could result in lower rates of participation because of
insufficient funds in participatIng schools.  The participating
provincial and municipal governments would increase the recurrent
btudgets of VTCs, TTCs and TTDs to cover these additional costs,
including foreign exchange as needed to purchase spare parts for
imported equipment;
(c) the SEdC, project provinces and municipalities would increase the
minimum weekly teaching hours (para. 1.18) per VTC teacher to 12-14
hours (SWSs and STSs to 12 hours and for teachers in SVSs to 14
hours) by 1995. The measure will cover 4,700 of the project VTCs
teachers in 1988 and about 6,000 in 1994. Similar increases would be
applied to non-project VTE schools (338,300 teachers at 6,200
schools) by 1997. Consequently, the average student-teacher ratio at
the project VTCs will be increased from the present 9:1 to 11:1 by
1995 and will reduce the demands on the technical teacher training
system. The number of VTCs teachers needed to cater for the
enrollment expansion of 52Z in the project provinces and
municipalities will be an increase of only 30Z. The TTCs and TTDs
would also increase the minimum weekly teaching hours per teacher
from the present low average of only four to six hours (para. 1.18)
to a minimum of 10 hours per teacher. This would increase the
student-teacher ratio from the present 5:1 to 6:1, 5/ and the planned
862 increase in enrollments would require only a 482 increase in the
number of teachers required;
(d) the SEdC would establish by December 31, 1989 teacher qualification
standards against which teachers in the project institutions would be
evaluated by the PEdCs and MEdCs. These commissions have agreed to
upgrade by 1993 all teachers in project institutions who do not meet
the qualification criteria. Teachers in need of training in either
pedagogy, technical specialization, or industrial experience, would
be sent to short-term or long-term training courses as appropriate;
(e) as an additional economy measure and to demonstrate to the other VTE
schools the savingb that could be realized by a better balance
5/ This ratio dres not take into account the greatly increased inservice
training (6.7 times) which is also taught by the VTC teachers.



- 22 -
between the numbers of teaching and non-teachina personnel, the SEdC,
project provinces and municipalities would reduce the current large
number of non-teaching personnel in the VTCs, TTCs, and TTDs
(para. 1.20). An experimental program to achieve this objective is
underway in Beijing and would be adopted by other project provinces/
municipalities if proven to be effective. Other possible measures
include halting all recruitment of non-teaching personnel,
redeployment of existing non-teaching personnel, and not replacing
such staff when they retire;
(f) to ensure that the changing needs for skills would be reflected in
the development of the VTE curriculum, the provincial and municipal
authorities would increase the effectiveness of industry liaison
committees (para. 1.23) by improving the composition of these
committees to reflect better the major employers in the province or
municipality and by improving operating procedures so that the views
of such emplovers would be made effective. SEdC has agreed to
provide guidelines for the composition and operation of these
coumnittees. As a further aid, tracer studies would be conducted by
each VTC yearly beginning 1990 (para. 1.23). In addition, regiona.
long-term manpower forecasting techniques would be introduced through
the proposed project and adapted to the Chinese environment by the
project R&D centers (para. 1.24).
(g) to adapt to the new job allocation policy and development of a market
economy, each project VTC would set up a Student Counseling Office
staffed by a trained counselor who would be familiar with placement
issues and the job market. The SCOs would be responsible for
organizing pre-semester study/training orientations and pre-
graduation seminars for career choice. The project TTCs and TTDs
would add 'counseling" as a teaching subject in order to train
student counselors beginning 1991 school year;
(h) the project would help improve the opportunity for technical teacher
training for less developed non-project provinces and autonomous
regions by setting aside student places each year in the project-
sunported TTCs and TTDs (para. 2.14). Exact number of student places
will be determined at the SEdC's June 1989 meeting on VTE project
implementation;
(i) as an economy measure, the proposed project TTCs in Shanghai and
Jiangxi province and TTD in Beijing would gradually reduce the number
of students enrolled in the departments/sections that now train
teachers of general subiects such as languages and basic sciences by
at least 50, in order to concentrate all of their resources and
energies solely on training technical teachers;
(j) as a measure to improve consistency in the content and interpretation
of specialized course, VTC teachers would teach both the theory and
related practical work or supervise the practical work instruction
(para. 1.21) beginning 1990 school year; and
(k) each project provincial and municipal authorities would provide
additional funds each year starting 1991 specifically to upgrade
equipment in non-project VTE schools progressively so that teachers



- 23 -
completing the improved VTE teacher training programs in project TTCs
and TTDs could teach the more advanced and modern practices to
students of non-project schools.
2.30     An agreement to undertake the above actions by the provincial and
municipal governments is a condition for inclusion in the proposed project
established by the SEdC. The Government has prepared detailed action plans
including implementation timetables (1989-1995) for the above measures which
were discussed at negotiations. The Government assured the Association that
it would ensure these measures are carried out, based on the understandings
reached.
II!.    JECTCOSTS           ING AN  IMPLEMEhTAUT0O
A. Costs
Suamary o2Lf osts
3.1      The total cost of the project including contingencies is estimated
at Y 339 m or US$91 m equivalent. The estimated cost by major project
components is summarized in Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in
Table 3.2. Detailed costs by component and category of expenditure are shown
in Annex 9.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  as % of
---- (Y million) ----   --- (US$ million) ---   total
VTCs (59)                   106.1    74.0   180.1    28.6    20.0    48.6       41
TTCs (9) and TTDs (3)        40.8    33.1    73.9    10.9       8.9    19.8     45
Training for VTE Management  0.4       1.0     1.4     0.1      0.3     0.4     75
R&D Cen'ers (3)
(financed by FRG)           5.5    20.5    26.0      1.5     5.5      7.0     79
Total base cost         152.8  1286   281.4    41 1    34.7    75.8         46
Contingencies:
Physical                   14.1    10.4    24.5      3.7      2.8     6.5     42
Price increase             27.8     5.3    33.1      7.4      1.3     8.7     16
Total IDA financed
project costs         194.7   144.3   3390    5.2 2      8       91 0     43



-24-
T-ble32a:  SUMKARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  as s of
---- (Y *llion) ----    --- (US$ *illion) ---   total
Civil works                 47.6      5.3    52.9    12.8      1.4   14.2       10
Furniture                    7.9      0.9      8.8     2.1     0.2    2.3        9
Equipment                   76.6     92.7   169.3    20.5    25.2   45.7        55
Books and teaching
materials                  2.2      0.9      3.1     0.6     0.2    0.8       25
Overseas training            0.4      6.8      7.2     C.)     1.8    1.9       95
Local training              11.8      0.0    11.8      3.2     0.0    3.2        0
Foreigzl specialists         0.2      1.5      1,7     0.1     O.     C .      90
Local specialists            0.6      0.0      0.6     0.2     0.0    0,2        0
Totdl Base Cos           Ji.3   1CL 1   55.4   3I9l    222              8     . 42
Contingencies:
Physical                  14.1     10.4    24.5      3.7     2.8    6.5       42
Price increase            27.8      5.3    33.1      7.4     1.3    8.7       16
Total IDA Funded         189.2    123.8   313.0   50Z     LI   84.0           40
Proiect Costs
R&D Centers (FRG-financed)  5.5      20.5    26.0      1.5     5.5    7.0       79
Total Project Cost                           339.0                    "d.0
Basis of Cost Estimates
3.2      Base costs refer to actual costs or to estimated costs as of May 1989
prices.i/ Costs of civil works have been estimated on the basis of unit costs
per o2 in recent buildtng contracts awarded by the provincial and municipal
governoents, taking Into account the types of building to be constructed and
the regional cost differences. Space requirements have been based on SEdC
standards.2/ Equipment costs are based on bid prices for recently imported
similar equipment and on recent local prices for miscellaneous items included
in the equipment list for each type of institution. Local training costs are
based upon current costs at Chinese universities, appropriately adjusted for
the shorter lengths of the training sessions and for the travel and
I/ Date of negotiations.
2/  The Finance and Planning Department of SEdC sets standards for the unit
area per student for different levels of education. These standards
are reasonable and are used throughout China to allocate capital
expenditures for enrollment increases.



-25-
subsistence costs required to bring vocational and technical teaching staff to
central locations for the pedagogical inservice and upgrading specialization
courses and for industrial experience. The visiting scholar program has been
estimated at US$12,000 per year, and overseas study tours at US$7,000 per
tour. Costs of foreign specialists have been estimated at an average of
US$8,000 per man-month for fees and per dies, plus US$600 for travel within
China, and US$2,000 for travel to and from the home office.
Foreign Exchange Comonn
3.3      The foreign exchange component is estimated as follows:  civil  works
and furniture, 10%; instructional equipment, 55%; books and teaching
materials, 30%; overseas training, 95%; specialists, 90%; and local training
and local specialists, 0%. The foreign exchange component of instructional
equipment and books and teaching materials is based upon an assessment of the
probability of foreign suppliers winuiing equipment procurement contracts, and
the probable proportion of books and teaching materials that will be foreigrn-
produced.
^ttaDSDcy Allow-nees
3.4      Physical contingencies are escimated at 10% of the base costs of
civil works, furniture, equipment, books and teaching materials, and 5% for
all otner categories. Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis
of expected international price increases of 5.3% for 1989 and 1990, and 4.1%
for 1991 and subsequent years, and expected domestic price increases of 15%
for 1989, 10% for 1990, 10% for 1991, and 8% for 1992 and subsequent years.
Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at about 12% of baseline
costs plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies are estimated to be
22% of base costs.
3.5      The project cost includes the indirect cost of import duties and
taxes on building materials and materials for locally manufactured equipment,
which have not been identified separately because the amount is negligible and
is financed by the Government. Most of imported instructional equipment and
technical assistance are exempt from import duties and taxes, respectively.
B. Financing
Capital Costs
3.6      The proposed IDA Credit would finance 55% of the estimated total
project costs. The FRG government will parallel-finance US$7m grant for the
three R&D centers. The provincial and municipal governments would contribute
US$34.0 million equivalent (37% of total project costs) to finance 100% of the
costs of civil works j/ and furniture and about 25% of equipment. The IDA
Credit would finance about 75% of the costs of equipment and 100% of the costs
of books and teaching materials, overseas fellowships, foreign specialists'
services and local training within the IDA financed portion of the project.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Central Government would make
the proceeds of the Credit funds available to the project provinces and
municipalities on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The
Credit funds would be onlent at an annual interest rate of 2.5%, repayable
over a period of 20 years, including a 5 year grace period.
I/ The project costs do not include the approximately US$16.6 a in
construction of VTE schools that is now underway.



-26-
able 3.3:  OVERALL FINANCING PLAN (JULY 1989   DECEMBER 1994)
BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE AND SOURCE OF FUNDS
Gov't    FRG      IDA     Total       * IDA
------- (US$ million) ----------   financing
Civil works                17.5              0.0      17.5           0
Furniture                   2.8              0.0       2.8           0
Equipml nt                 13.7             41.6      55.3          75
Books and material-         0.0              1.1       1.1         100
Overseas training           0.0              2.0       2.0         100
Local training              0.0              4.5       4.5         too
Foreigrs srecialists       0D0               0.6      0.6         10
Local t,pecialists          0.0              0.2       0.2         100
R&?M centers                -        7.0     -         7.0
Tpta                  li       Lo OQ  .0S   Q1. .
Ooeratina Costs
3.7      If the present average weekly teaching hours per teacher and the
student-teacher ratio were kept for the planned enrollment expansion during
the project implementation period from 1989 to 1994, annual incremental recur-
rent expenditures for the proposed VTCs, TTCs and TTDs generated by this proj-
ect would increase to about Y 16 m in the five key provinces for which data on
education budgets are available. This increase represents less than 1% of the
present recurrent budget of the key provinces allocated to secondary educatiun
which receives about 43% of the total recurrent budget of the key provinces.
These additional expenditures, which do not include possible savings arising
from increasing teaching hours per teacher, could be accommodated without
undue financial difficulties to the key provinces within the anticipated
growth of education budget. It is estimated that by increasing the minimum
weekly teaching hours per teacher under the proposed project (para. 2.29(c)),
teachers' salaries and subsidies would be saved by about 15% from estimated
1994 operating costs.
C. Imnlementation
3.8      Similar to implementation arrangements for other Bank Group-financed
education projects, SEdC would be responsible for implementing the project and
would be the Government's interlocutor with the Association on project
matters. Overall direction would be provided by a Steering CommiLtee com-
prising the Vice-Minister of the SEdC and senior officers of the various
departments of the SEdC that would be involved in project implementation--the
Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO), the Planning and Finance Depart-
ment, the VTE Department, and the International Cooperation Department. Such
comprehensive representation would assure that any issues affecting project
implementation that might arise and which would require either comment or
approval of such SEdC departments would be promptly brought to the attention
of the relevant department at a sufficiently high level for early resolution.



- 27 -
A senior officer of the VTE Department, in cooperation with the FILO, would be
responsible for all pedagogical aspects of the project, including the enact-
ment at the provincial and municipal level of agreements reached with the
Association. FILO would be the coordinating and executing arm of the SEdC for
day-to-day management of the project. FILO would directly manage domestic
staff training, overseas fellowship program, and recruitment of domestic
specialists, but would engage an agency to implement the recruitment of
foreign specialists included in the technical assistance portion of the proj-
ect. It would also be responsible for procuring the equipment through direct
purchase or Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) and submitting withdrawal requests
and maintaining financial accounts. For the procurement of equipment through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), FILO would contract the International
Tendering Company of the China National Technology Import Corporation (CNTIC)
under the Ministry of Foreign Econcmic Relations and Trade, which is res-
ponsible for the international procurement of equipment.
3.9      Asthoug.h the SEdC would be the focal point of project impiementation
and is responsible for maintaining naLional standards of education, including
VTE, considerable responsibility for the proposed project wouild be devolved to
the provinces and municips.lities included in the project.  In essence, each
project province and municipality would be responsible for the fin&rocing and
supervision of the civil works program in the proposed project, the approval
of the respective project institute's requests for additional equipment to be
forwarded to SEdC for purchase under the proposed project, the review and
financing of the project institute's staff development plans through local
training programs to be forwarded to the SEdC, and the approval and forwarding
to the SEdC of the project institutes' requests for overseas training of proj-
ect institutes' staff and the services of foreign specialists. The specific
responsibilities of the project provinces and municipalities and the SEdC will
be formalized in Project Implementation Agreements acceptable to the Associa-
tion which will be signed by the governors of the project provinces and mayors
of municipalities and the responsible vice-chairman of the SEdC. The Govern-
ment would bring these agreements in draft form to negotiations for discus-
sion. Assurances were provided at negotiations that the Project Implementa-
tion Agreements would be concluded as a condition of Credit effectiveness.
3.10     To carry out these responsibilities, each project province and  muni-
cipality has established a Project Implementation Office (PIO), typically
staffed as shown in Annex 10. A PIO has also been established in each project
institute (Annex 10). Either the president/principal or the deputy president/
deputy principal of the project institutes has been named as the director ot
the PIO. The director would forward periodic progress reports to the Head of
the Provincial and Municipal PIO and all requests for assistance to the
PEdC/MEdC and the SEdC. During negotiations, the Government agreed that -he
PIOs would continue to function throughout the project implementation period
with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association.
3.11     The SEdC officials would provide guidance and assistance to the
provincial and municipal and project institutes' officials, which would help
to overcome their lack of experience with Bank Group-financed projects.
Implemencatio.a of the various project components is therefore likely to follow
the implementation schedule shown in Annex 11. Key implementation dates are
shown in Annex 12. The estimated schedule of activities in the first year is



- 28 -
detailed in Annex 13. Most equipment, books and teaching materials are
expected to be purchased by the end of 1991. Staff development, both local
and overseas, however, would not be completed until mid-1993 (see Annex 4 for
details of TA component), and would require a Completion Date of December 31,
1993. The Closing Date would be December 31, 1994.
Proiect Monitorina and Evaluation
3.12     Progress towards meeting project objectives would be monitored in
two broad areas and with three tools. The two areas would be: (a) achieve-
ments in the VTCs, TTCs and TTDs and R&D centers; and (b) progress in imple-
menting project components. The three tools would be: (i) annual progress
reports using indicators to track progress; (ii) the Association's progress
review missions; and (iii) a mid-term review. IDA missions would review the
status of progress towards the achievement of targets, but in addition would
review the overall progress of the project and would, when needed, focus on
specific issues. The mid-term reiriew would take place in the second half of
i991.  Overail evaiation would be after project completion in December i993
and the resuAlts wCould be included i.a the project cotepletion report (PC?,) due
ir, June 1995.  Responsibility for preparing the camptetion repors- would rest
with the Steering Committee (para. 3.8), which would be assisted by the
provincial and municipal PIOs and departments/divisions involved in the
project.
3.13     In addition to the SEdC assistance to provincial, municipal, and
project institutes' officials on project implementation matters (para. 3.11),
it would play an important role in the achievement of project-supported
improvements in the VTE system (para. 2.29). The SEdC would bear primary
responsibility for providing advice and guidelines to the PEdCs and MEdCs to
ensure a desirable degree of uniformity of approach and timing in the achieve-
ment of the improvements for which the PEdCs and MEdCs bear responsibility.
As most of the actions required to achieve project-supported improvements
would be either taken directly by the PEdCs and MEdCs or by institutions
immediately under their supervision, the PEdCs and MEdCs would be the
principal agents of change within the project. In addition to initiating
measures for which they would bear primary responsibility, the PEdCs and MEdCs
would work closely with the project institutions' administrative staffs to
assist them in taking the steps required to realize the desired improvements.
The PEdCs and MEdCs are therefore the logical centers for monitoring progress
in these areas.
3.14     Each project institution would prepare annual progress reports
detailing the actions taken to-date and during the reporting period to achieve
the project-supported improvements for which they would be responsible. The
PEdCs and MEdCs would evaluate each report and determine whether progress had
been satisfactory and, if not, the corrective measures that they would recom-
mend to the institution's administrative staff. Each project PEdC and MEdC
would forward to the SEdC the project institutions' progress reports, together
with a brief summary that it would prepare on the status of the improvements,
including those improvements for which the PEdCs or MEdCs would bear primary
responsibility. The SEdC would forward its views on each annual report to the
respective PEdC or MEdC. Assurancres were provided during negotiations that:



- 29 -
(a) annual progress reports would be prepared and reviewed as described
above;
(b) the SEdC would forward by September 1, 1990, and annually thereafter
a summary of all PEdC and MEdC progress reports in a brief format to
be agreed between the Government and the Association during negotia-
tions that would clearly indicate the progress in achieving each of
the project supported improvements described in pars. 2.29; and
(c) the SEdC would hold a mid-term review of the implementation of the
new measures jointly with the Association not later than December 31,
1991. Project monitoring indicators are shown in Annex 14.
Status of Proiect Prearation
3.15     The proposed project is at an advanced stage of preparation.
ConstructiorL will be started in mnid-1589 and coz4pleted by eerly 1991.  Equip-
ment lists and TA implementation plans are being prepared by the SPdC vith a
%roup of local exnerts in cooperation witr, the project provinces and
!          municipalit.es and project institutes.  The procurement of equipment is
expected to begin soon aftter Credit effectiveness. Efforts will be made to
complete fellowship selection by mid-1990 for the first group of scholars and
to place them in overseas institutions in September 1990.  Local training is
expected to commence in September 1989.
D. Procurement
3.16     Procurement arrangements and procedures are summarized below:



- 30-
Table 3.4:  PROCUflEYNT ARRANGEKENTS
(US$ million)
--- aurmnt me. thod           Total
ICs       LCB        Other JA    cost
Civil works                                            17.5                  17.5
(0.0)                (0.0)
Furniture                                               2.8                   2.8
(0.0)                (0.0)
Equipment                                  30.0        22.8       2.5       55.3
(30.0)       (9.1)    (2.5)      (41.6)
Books and materials                                               1.1         1.1
(l1.1j)    (1 .1)
Overseas training                                                 2.0         2.0
(2.0)      (2.0)
Local training                                                    4.5        4.5
(4.5)      (4.5)
Specialists                                                       0.8        0.8
(0.8)      (0.8)
Iotal gf IDA                                     41        10.9          40
(30.0)     (9.1)    (10.9)        (50.0)
3 R&D Centers - Financed by FRG                                   7.0          7.0
Total                                 30.2 0kLI 43.2                    210
LA    Other includes direct purchase for proprietary items, or where justified
by need for standardization, international and local shopping for goods
and services, and non-decided procurement methods for FRC - financed
items.
Note: Figures in parentheses denote the amount of the Association's financing.
3.17     All civil works and furniture would be procured using their own
procedures and financed by the provincial and municipal Governments. The
Credit would finance about US$42.7 m equivalent of instructional equipment,
including books, journals and teaching materials, and about US$2.6 m
equivalent of TA. About 54% of the equipment would be procured through ICB
and the remainder through LCB, international and local shopping or direct
contracting.
3.18     Equipment requirements would be consolidated and divided into
procurement groups of related items in terms of foreign and local marketplace
interest and then advertised so as to assure the widest reasonable market
response for each group. All groupings and the choice of procurement method
would be reviewed by the Association prior to release of bidding documents.
ICB would be used for any tender with an anticipated value of US$200,000 or
more. Equipment groups with values under US$200,000 may be procured using LCB
provided procedures, provided there are adequate local sources which zan offer
competitive prices are pre-determined to be available. The LCB groups and
procedures would be reviewed and approved by the Association before further



_ 31 -
LCB action would be undertaken. Groups valued at less than US$200,000 for
which local competition is concluded not to be available would be tendered
using ICB procedures. Equipment groups with a value of less than US$50,000
(up to an aggregate of US$1,500,000) may be procured by international shopping
on the basis of written quotations from three or more suppliers or by local
shopping from three or more independent competitive local suppliers. Procure-
ment by direct contracting of necessary proprietary items, or items from sole-
source suppliers which must be standardized, may be purchased following
negotiations with suppliers who either hold the proprietary interests or are
the sole manufacturers of the items requiring standardization. Each such
direct purchase would be agreed to in advance by the Association and such
purchases would be limited to an aggregate of US$500,000.
3.19     Books and printed teaching materials in the amount of US$1.6 m would
be obtained by direct negotiations with copyrighted publishers or suppliers.
Such purchases would be subject to rtndom Bank review.
3.20     The Domestic Preference for Goods as set forth in the Guidelines for
Pro:urement may be used in ICB.  In additicn to the foregoing, the prioc
review of procurement decisions in accordance with the Guidelines for Procure-
ment shall apply to all ICB transactions and to the first LCB transaction of
any PIO or FILO. Technical assistance would be procured in accordance with
the Association's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. During negotiations, the
Government assured the Association that equipment procured under the proposed
Credit would not be used for purely-commercial production in any project
school affiliated factories.
E. Disbursements
3.21     The credit of US$50.0 m equivalent would be disbursed over a period
of 5 1/2 years (Table 3.5). Disbursements would be made on the basis of:
(a) 1002 of the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment, books and journals, or
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment and 752 of
local expenditures for other items procured locally; 9/
(b) 1002 of total expenditures for specialists;
(c) 1002 of total expenditures for overseas fellowships and study tours;
and
(d) 1002 of total expenditures for local training of the project school
teachers.
The disbursement profile of the proposed project reflects an anticipated rate
of withdrawal much higher than the average education project, because of an
advanced stage of project preparation.
9/ Exclusive of the US$13.5 m of equipment to be financed by the
Government under its own procedures.



_ 32 -
Table 3.5: DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
Disbursement
IDA                           Disbursement          Cumulative      profile (2)
fiscal year            Semester      Cumulative       as X of          China
and semester           ---- (US$ million) ----          total       Ed. projects
FY90
1st                     0.5            0.5               1.0
2nd                     2.0            2.5               5.0            '.0
FY91
lst                    14.0           16.5             33.C
2nd                    11.5           28.0             56.0            16.0
FY92
lst                     8.0           36.0             72.0
2nd                     6.0           42.0             84.0            49.0
FY93
1st                     4.0           46.0             92.0
2nd                     2.0           48.0             96.0            70.0
FY94
1st                     1.0           49.0             98.0
2nd                     0.6           49.6             99.2           83.0
FY95
1st                     0.4           50.0            100.0
2nd                                                                   94.0
FY96
1st
2nd                                                                  100.00
Closing Date: December 31, 1994
3.22     In order to facilitate the Association's processing of disbursement
applications, the minimum level of withdrawal would be US$500,000.
Disbursement applications for contracts valued at US$200,000 or more would be
submitted to the Association with two copies of the contracts and, if
applicable, other supporting documents. For goods and services contracts,
each valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent, and study tours and
fellowships, SOEs certified by authorized provincial and municipal government
officials would be used. Under SOE procedures, contracts and/or other
supporting documents would be retained by the provincial and municipal PIOs
and FILO and, upon request, would be made available for review by visiting
missions from the Association. Disbursements against SOEs would be made on
the basis of a consolidated summary, each not less than US$500,000.



- 33 -
Disbursements for other project expenditures would be made against full
documentation.
3.23     A Special Account would be opened and maintained in US dollars in a
bank acceptable to the Association to facilitate payment of all eligible
project expenditures. An initial amount of US$4.0 m would be deposited into
the Special Account. This should be sufficient to cover all eligible project
expenditures during any four months of the implementation period except for
the peak year of FY91. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account
would be submitted monthly to the Association, or when amounts withdrawn are
about 5OZ of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
F. Accounts and Audits
3.24     Project accounts and details of the Special Account wo"ld be
maintained by FILO. The Audit Administration of the People's Republic of
China would audit these cash flows accounts.  During negotiations, agreement
was reached that:
(a)  project accounts would be maintained by the FILO and all the PIOs
according to normal and satisfactory accounting practices;
(b)  annual audit reports prepared by the State Audit Administration
would be submitted to the Association within eight months of the end
of the Government's fiscal year; and
(c) a separate opinion on the SOEs would be submitted to the Association
together with the audit report.
Within six months of the Closing Date, the Steering Committee, assisted by the
PIOs, would submit a PCR to the Association.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1      The principal benefits of the proposed project would be:
(a) an expansion and improvement in the quality of 59 secondary VTE
schools selected to become VTCs as 'centers of excellence';
(b) a wide demonstration effect throughout the provinces and
municipalities in which the VTCs would be located;
(c) an expansion and quality improvement of nine TTCs and three TTDs;
(d)  development of a sorely needed R&D capability to bring about the
necessary changes in curriculum, teaching methods, and coordination
with labor market;



- 34 _
(e) enhanced capability in planning, management, and evaluation in the
VTE system; and
(f) rapid and coordinated development of the entire VTE system in five
key provinces through the concentration of 58? of the total Credit
and FRG funds to assist all segments of VTE in these provinces -
VTCc, teacher training, research and development, and audio-visual
and teaching materials production.
B. Risks
4.2      The major risk is del.' arising from the inexperience of provincial
and municipal officials in the implementation of an IDA-financed project.
This risk would be reduced considerably by involving in project implementation
the provincial and municipal officials who are responsible for implementation
of the IDA-financed teacher training project (Credit 1908-CHA) and at the
national level by FILO (para. 3.8) which is experienced in the implementation
of six Bank Group-financed education projects. Moreover, IDA staff would
provide assistance and training in project implementation through frequent and
extended review missions.
4.3      An objective of the project is to improve the quality of VTE in
China. This operation aims to do so within financial constraints operating at
this time. While there are likely to be considerable gains in efficiency and
cost-effectiveness of VTE through the project, there may be difficulty in
spreading the use of the model, especially if China's labor market undergoes
further change. There is a risk that over the long-term provincial govern-
ments may not be able to continue providing the budgetary allocations required
to improve VTE or to sustain new approaches. Prospects for new forms of
financing from industry and other sources would be studied as part of research
activities of the proposed R&D centers (Annex 7, page 1). The Bank Group
could support this work by synthesizing relevant lessons of international
experience.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1      During the negotiation the Government has agreed to the  following:
(a)  the Government would carry out the TA program as agreed with the
Asso:iation (para. 2.21);
(b)  the Central Government would make the proceeds of the Credit funds
available to the project provinces and municipalities on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.6);
(c) PIOs would continue to function throughout the project implementation
period with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the
Association (para. 3.10);
(d) the SEdC would: (i) forward by September 1, 1990, and annually
thereafter a progress report that would indicate progress in



- 35 -
achieving each of the project-supported improvements described in
para. 2.29; and (ii) hold a mid-term review of the implementation of
these new measures jointly with the Association not later than
December 31, 1991 (para. 3.14);
(e) equipment procured under the proposed Credit would not be used for
purely-commercial production in any project school-affiliated
factories (para. 3.20); and
(f) (i) the FILO and PlO would maintain project accounts according to
normal and satisfactory accounting practices; (ii) annual audit
reports prepared by the State Audit Administration would be submitted
to the Association within eight months of the end of the Government's
fiscal year; and (iii) a separate opinion on the SOEs would be
submitted to the Association together with the audit reports
(para. 3.24).
5.2      Conditions for Credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  approval by the State Council of the Development Credit Agreement;
(b) agreements on action plans for the proposed R&D component by the
Government, the FRG and the Association, and that all necessary
arrangements have been made for the provision of the FRG grant (para.
2.18); and
(c) conclusion of Project Implementation Agreements acceptable to the
Association, which will be signed by the governors of the project
provinces and mayors of the municipalities and the responsible vice-
chairman of the SEdC (para. 3.9).
5.3      Subject to the above conditions, the project would constitute a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 38.5 m (US$50.0 m equivalent) on
standard IDA terms, with 35 years maturity, to the People's Republic of China.



- 36 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
CHINfA
RESTRUCTURE SECONDARY EDUCATION AND VIGOROUSLY
PROMOTE VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Central Comuittee of the Comunist Party of China
May 1985
1.       Our socialist modernization not only requires senior scientific and
technical experts but also urgently requires millions of intermediate and
junior engineers, managerial personnel and technicians who have received
adequate vocational and technical education as well as urban and rural workers
who are well-trained vocationally. Without a huge contingent of such workers
and engineers, advanced sciences and technologies and sophisticated equipment
cannot be translated into productive forces. Vocational and technical educat-
ion constitute the weakest link in the whole chain of China's education.
Therefore, it is imperative that we take effective measures to change this
situation and strive for a major step forward in this respect.
2.       We have failed to make a genuine breakthrough in the development of
vocational and technical education, although we have stressed its need for
many years. An important reason for this failure lies in the fact that for a
long time we have not set political, cultural and technical standards for
those to be employed and that the worn-out concept of belittling vocational
and technical education is deeply rooted. It is, therefore, necessary to
conduct education for the purpose of fostering the concept inside and outside
the Party that it is an honor to work in any trade or profession, that each
promises brilliant careers for its best workers, and that anyone seeking a job
must meet certain political, cultural and technical qualifications. Moreover,
side by side with the restructuring of education we should carry out reform in
relevant rules and regulations of our labor and personnel system, putting into
effect the principle of "training before employment." From now on, all units
must, first of all, employ graduates from vocational and technical schools.
No one, particularly those to be engaged in highly specialized and technical
work, shall be allowed to take up the job unless he has received his qualifi-
cation certificate, just like a chauffeur who is not allowed to drive without
obtaining a driving license through examination. In this connection, the
departments concerned should work out rules and regulations for the gradual
adherence to this practice.
3.       To meet the rneed for vigorous development of vocational and technical
education, our young people, beginning at the middle school level, should
generally be divided into two groups, with one group of jtnior middle school
graduates engineering regular senior middle schools and tle other receiving
senior middle vocational and technical education; one group of senior middle
school graduates entering regular colleges and universities; and the other
receiving senior vocational and technical education. Those primary school
graduates who have received junior middle vocational and technical education
can either start work or enter higher-level schools. Those students who are
not admitted to regular senior middle schools, regular colleges or universi-
ties, or vocational and technical schools can get jobs after completing short-
term vocational or technical training. We should take maximum advantage of
existing specialized secondary schools and technical workers' schools by



-37-
Page 2 of 2
increasing their enrollment of new students and shou?d systematically trans-
form a number of regular senior middle schools into vocational ones or set up
vocational classes or start new schools of this type so that, within five
years, enrollment in senior middle vocational and technical schools will equal
that of regular senior middle schools in most places. This should put an end
to the existing irrational structure of our secondary education.
4.       In developing vocational and technical education we should focus on
secondary vocational and technical education and emnhasize the central role of
specialized secondary schools. At the same time, we should make an Affort to
develop advanced vocational and technical institutions that will first enroll
those who have graduated from secondary vocational or technical schools with
the required specialized training as well as those employees who are
experienced in their special lines and have passed the entrance examinations.
Thus, we shall gradually establish a system of vocational and technical educa-
tion with a rational structure, ranging from elementary to advanced levels,
embracing all trade and linking up with regular education.
5.       Secondary vocational and technical education should be geared to the
needs of economic and social development. It should meet the need for improv-
ing the technology and management of enterprises and expanding the tertiary
industry in the cities, and the need for readjusting the set-up of production
in the countryside and the peasants' need for achieving prosperity through
hard work. We must stress the training of professional skills, which should
cover a wide area and be coupled with an appropriate portion of general educa-
tion so that it will provide long-term and wide options for jobs and meet the
requirements of technical renovations and advanced studies. At the same time,
we should pay more attention to education in professional ethics and
discipline.
6.       We should bring into full play the initiative of enterprises and
establishments as well as the departments concerned in developing vocational
and technical education. We should encourage individuals, collectives and
other sectors to run schools and urge all units and departments to set up
vocational and technical schools on their own or in cooperation with each
other or with educational departments. Apart from training personnel for
their own units or departments, these schools can be entrusted with the task
of training personnel for other units and enroll self-supporting students.
7.       The serious shortage of teachers poses an acute problem in developing
secondary vocational and technical education at present. Units and depart-
ments that run vocational and technical schools should, first of all, recruit
teachers from among their own personnel. In the meantime, they car, invite
teachers and scientists and engineers from other units to serve as part-time
teachers, and also specialized technicians and master craftsmen to impart
their technical skills and expertise. Several vocational and technical normal
schools and colleges must be established, and the colleges, universities and
research institutions concerned should undertake the training of teachers for
vocational and technical schools, so that there will be no lack of specialized
teachers. The local authorities have the chief responsibility for running
such schools, and they are expected to assist and cooperate with the depart-
ments of the central authorities in the undertaking.



38                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
Secondary Technical Schools (STSs). The STS was originally designed
to enroll mainly upper secondary graduates to be trained as cadres and
technicians who were guaranteed employment after graduation through the labor
assignment system. They have recently been instructed by the State Education
Commission (SEdC) to enroll mostly lower secondary graduates.  The upper
secondary schools course lasts two or three years, depending upon the
specialization, and the lower secondary schools course, three to four years.
The additional length of the lower secondary schools course is intended to
provide a measure of the general education the student would have received if
he/she had enrolled in a upper GSS. Admission is highly competitive, with a
ratio of applicants to &dmissions of about three to one. Candidates identify
the specialization they wish to study, and sit far a national examination
prepared by the SEdC and administered by the Higher Education Department. A
Provincial Higher Education Recruitment Commission assigns successful
candidates to specific schools on the basis of examination scores and the
stated preferences, within the overall enrollment quotas prescribed ay the
school's sponsor and the relevant government agency (central technical
ministry, provincial or municipal technical bureau). Graduates are guaranteed
employment and are assigned to jobs by the agency or enterprise that operates
the school. The schools are operated under the broad supervision of the SEdC
by central technical ministries and their provincial and municipal bureaus,
and provincial or municipal education commissions (PEdC or MEdC). The
graduates are well qualified in narrow specializations. In 1987, 1.22 m
students were enrolled in 2,854 STSs. The official curriculum consists of
general education subjects (25Z), specialization theory (35Z) specialization
practical work (35Z), and mother" (5Z). In actual practice, however, due to a
shortage of specialized teachers and equipment, the portions of the curriculum
relating to general subjects and "other" usually are increased by about 102
and 5Z, respectively, at the expense of time for specialized theory and
practice. About five specializations directly related to local industrial or
commercial enterprises are taught in each STS. These vary considerably across
the vast regions of China, but for illustrative purposes may include such
fields as light industry automation, food technology, textile management,
computer science, and financial accounting.
Skilled Workers Schools (SWSs). The SWS is designed to produce
middle level skilled workers at entry level, grades two to four on an eight-
grade scale. Applicants are generally lower secondary school graduates.
Course durations are three years for lower secondary graduates and two years
for upper secondary graduates. Admission is highly competiti-re, with a ratio
of applicants to admissions of six to one in some cities. Graduates are well
qualified in narrow skills and are guaranteed employment by the Ministry of
Labor (MOL) which provides overall supervision of the schools. The SWSs under
the general administration of the MOL are managed by central technical
ministries, provincial and municipal labor bureaus and large enterprises, with
about half their resources coming from enterprises. They have close linkages



39                         Page 2 of 4
with employers and generally have substantial internships in industry for
their students prior to graduation. In 1987, 1.04 m students were enrolled in
3,548 SWSs. Because employment is guaranteed, the MOL regulates admissior1s to
conform to sponsored positions. The official curriculum consists of general
education subjects (112), specialized theory (252 to 492, depending upon the
specialization), and specialized practical work (402 to 602). In actual
practice, however, due to a shortage of specialized teachers and equipment,
general education content is increased by 20S at the expense of specialized
theory (262) and specialized practical work (411). 'Other' activities (2S)
are added. About five or six specializations are taught in each SWS, and vary
greatly from locality to locality. In aggregate, about 400 special subjects
are taught throughout the SWS system. They include such skills as lathe work,
welding, iron smelting, machinery repair, and printing.
Secondary Vocational Schools (SVSs). The SVS is designed to produce
middle level technicians and skilled workers in agriculture, industry, and
commerce. Originally established to provide pre-vocational training to
primary school graduates in urban areas prior to assignment to the countryside
or factories, they have now developed into two distinct types of schools:
agricultural schools and predominantly urban vocational schools. Host courses
last three years, some only two years. Although graduates are not guaranteed
employment, demand for admission is high and in some cities the ratio of
applicants to admissions is seven to one. Local education authorities under
the guidance of SEdC usually operate these schools, although some are operated
by enterprises and some by local technical bureaus and local education
commissions jointly. In 1987, 2.3 m upper secondary and 0.4 million lower
secondary students were enrolled in 8,381 SVSs, a 22Z increase over the 1985
enrollment. The SVS system is expected to continue to be the fastest growing
portion of the VTE program, as additional upper GSS will be converted into
SVSs to achieve the government's objective of enrolling 502 of the upper
secondary schools students in some form of VTE. To keep the capital and
recurrent costs of converting upper GSS within the financial capabilities of
the respective provinces and municipalities, the majority of SVSs so far have
had to restrict their curricula to the less expensive training for the service
and commercial sectors. The official curriculum consists of general education
subjects (452), specialization theory (30Z-35Z), and specialized practical
work (20Z-25Z). In practice, general education subjects are increased only
slightly (42), which results in about half of the curriculum allocated to
general education, and practical work is increased to 272. Due to a shortage
of specialized teachers and equipment, instruction in the theory of the
specializations is reduced to only 222, a small fraction of the time
originally intended for practical work. An average of three or four
specializations are taught in each SVS. Although some industrial
specializations (electrical equipment, pipework, chemical engineering) are
offered, most of the specializations ara in the commercial and services fields
(accounting, tourism, pre-school teaching, art design). The SVSs have less
formal linkages with employers. The links between SVSs and employers must be
built in order to ensure a market for SVS graduates.
Other Forms of Vocational and Technical Education. In addition,
about one million students were enrolled in apprenticeship programs in 1987
and about 2.0 m were in various preservice training programs conducted by



40                          ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
labor service companies, which are under the administration of MOL and its
local bureaus. Their financial resources come mainly from fees from employers
who contract with them for assignment of trained personnel. The SEdC provides
general leadership for inservice training programs which are substantial.
Some major companies and factories also run inservice STS training which
enrolls workers from the factories in either three year full-time course or
longer term part-time programs. In 1987, 1.1 m workers were enrolled in
employees' skill training schools and 4.4 m were enrolled in adult skill
training schools. In addition, 0.4 m were enrolled in over 2,000 inservice
STSs and 1.5m were enrolled in 4,200 adult STSs.



CHINA
Vocationtl-Technical Education Project
The Vocational.-Technical Education Systm
Target Population                        Reporting Agency
Training              ----------------------------------------------   ------------------ -----------------
Training Institution     Objectivw             Junior   Upper-    Lower-   Job-    In-serv.  Provinc. Sector   Labor  fn- Enter-
Collelge Second.   Second.  Wtiting Workers/  or Munic.Ninistry/ istry/    prise
Students Graduates Graduates  ouths  Eqployee  Ed.Com. Bureau    Bureau
PRESERVICE 2/
STS                      Technician                          x         y                x        x         y
SwS                      Skilled Worker                                y                x                            y         x
SVS                      Technician/Sk.Worker                          y        x       x        y
Labor ComWpny Trng. Schl.Sk.Worker-Single Subj.              x         x        y       x                            y
TTC/TTD                  VTE Teacher                         y                          x        y
Potytechnic/Jr.College   Engineer/Technician      y          y                          x        y
Enterprise University    Engineer/Technician      y          x                                             y
IN-SERVICE
In-service STS           Technician                                                     y                  y
Inst. of Education       VTE Teacher                                                 VTE Tcher.
1/ my" - mjor role; x" - minor role.
2/ All pre-service institutions do some sort of in-service training for state enployees and individuals,
but their mmin task is pre-service training for various techni:al personnel.
x
0



~c* isat- tcmcaLimai        moc
VtlCAIOtbL-TECOtICAL EIIIUCAIIIS PWCF
isse Project IrstitutMia  got  - VICs
vEACumj/o. OF                            samw, ,a
PNECI VATUIOUla-IEClIIC1                                                *EAUA      IllSEV.POJICTlED P.ECIfEO D0D  oF    s. 0F   I0. O1 StMIII 01113   IAU-   11. U               . U  5 3011     MA      u
EOUCATI   CENTERS GltEI0 ENI SlTD.    0.Ut    IllSEIVICE FULL-IIIE  1INI0S-   01111 hITEAC                                                        STlfF   TIN      _ICtC   Otl            1161 1F     6 1tAt
ALIAL ElSt.   SIISEMIS  TEACUPS  TRA*OSt    STAlF UF 10 RAT         10 tM         MIMS  1*AFF  OIle    Milo    1TlO
191     TOT*A    19K       CAM1_   tuM           i4        ir     iws 111           19 t_4    1_4    t_1   89           I,      "FL
Is"               1994
mailJ'
1 EiiJIK 110.1 tlIaII IMIIDUI SC"tt                                           1,001             1,200        ISO      101          S2     Y9       10        1     121      S2       d        Is         5       1
2 BEIJING V10.2 lIOlI lIUSIS   SCOOOt                                           S91     145      1,000       145       TI          40    iS         C        I     16        40      a        t2         S        I
3 KiJIiK IISIIIEIII AND WIENS li0USIEitA  SCOO                                  TI0     704     1,410      1,050       6I          35    127        tt S           in                as       12         6       1
4 BEIJING SCIODt Of 11CIIIE l'iUST                                              611              1,200       ISO       6           33     62         9       I     14S       *S                9         5        I
S IEln.' 911II SclOm                                                            493     360     1.000        560       71          11     46         r       I       U       la      A         Is        a       2          '
6 1*IJI*G ECtItS AiD FIIIE SCNIOOt                                              636     91.0    1,000      2,140        ?l         10     36        12       2      11       IS      i         11        7        2
7 EIJIIUH A1tU VtAlIlMt SCUM 01Of CIVIl FtfCCRICAL AtlIAICES                    370     aol     1.000      3,520       39          22      a        9        1      is      2*       TS       1          I       2
1  E IJIKG I0.179 VOCAII IL AND IECVIICAL SCNIODL Of EtLICIICS                  675   2.960      1,000     6,240       GS           9     14        10       3      le       12      42        1         a        I
1.* total                                                                  5,29K   5.99      8,890    11,900       SSZ         212    415        10       1      12     23.     5"         11        *       1
I- :
Z..
x
5S
o5



f ,ien n:t-,cdDl
VOCATIIIAL-TECNICAlI  EOUCAIIOU ISaAC?
Sesic Project institutin Date - VICs
. ... .. .. ...    . .    ...    ...    .....  .. ..... ..... ......... ... - - - - - - -- -- - - - -- ......... . ..... .... .... .... ... ... .. . ............... ..... .... .......... .............. .... .... .......................
TEACI/IS. OF                               S$" II TcIKUh
PROECI VCATIOAt-TFCN ICAL                                                  6ECUAQ   IlSweRv.PSJECIED PoJECIED do. OF           0a. OF    10. OF SltDEUiI 010    FUtL-   WS. OF   W. Of STOMu     u.t               ine
EDUCATION CEINIES                                                    f(WOINEII Slt.  NFSU3ll IISImVICE FULL-TIlE MMINIS-  OaIEJ  IEJACES  S Flt 11 0                    silu- ST=                 STAFF    STAFF
AJIL EUJ     L tt.   Stt IS  IECIIEmS  ITUalS    STap  RATO         tAlt 10          lUCAP  SI  l 1FF  AtlMMISI S    Mt UllO
19YI    TOTAt    1998       (AML)   IU             INS       Iva   low         If"      19111 119"        099    "PA      "M         tINS
1986               199
9 SMEViNG .ICIPAL SCNWCt oF  ACNIIIIV AO  ELECTRONICS IWIStU                       7111     170      1,800        700        97         68    141          a        6      1"       to      112         *         4        1        4-
10 LIUIeG PNWvIeCtA  SCea   Oa  LIGII IUtSlit                                      964      222      1,400        304       128          70     ?1         a        I     In        y e      7          9         $        I         W
11 LIA11ec PmIleCIAt SCNIO    af EtEClmIIC IN IStm  EtCIRmilCtmIuStm-               616               1, 20       600         78          34     77         9        1     142       63      163         9         4        I
12TI E m 0 ISKlttED SMEh    SCes      tc1t PAaGG        gUR IIAU                    912               1. 30        120        75         16    119         IZ        I     112       16      lie        12         A        I
1I SNmtSAe   maICIPAt VOAcTiOat EOtUICAuIN CENTER                                  6t0                1,000        160       69          32       5        10        2       S       27        6        IS        is       2
1. SMmut,aC MalMCPAt 10. I   uIII  WAKING VaAtIlN    SCNMt                          160      110      1.000 W0              SO          51      10        10        I      15       35        S        U6        M        2
IS  II t. M tNI VOCAlIONat  OUCATIIN CEITER                                        720      ISO    1l000         Soo         a           it     28         9        2      9        Is       b         11         a       2
16 0StUrI  VOCAICIAL AND  tuClaCI. SCUOM  OF EtEtSIMICS                             S000      94      1,          1 20       00           it      9        to        4      M        Ist     tO         is        IS       4
17 TRAINING MM IiEIMSmwIP CENTER OF  llatIM VCAllOMAt SC1110                          0      *20        1m         820       81            a      7         O        3      6s        a        i         r         S       S
IS LIAONING PaIKi%CI    P   0IICEICAl EA IifEIlUlG KS1101t                         891       90    1260         2M0        90          6      136         9       5      116      11       me         3        3         I
Sqk-tot.t                                                                      6,991   1,256    Il,30        4,78        a0"         381    199          9        I   1.m        go       itS        II         S        I
*eelZ
0
MiX
Cp



CNI.A
VOCATIONAL - FCMiCAt EDUCATION PnOJIC
S.ITC Project Instjtt.tn Dte - VICs
------- ~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ -- - . - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -  - - -  - - - - - - - -   -  ... ... .  -- - - -- - -  .... .. ....   .......        ..                            ......    ................ _.......... .............. _........ ........... ....
rich I-  -. OF - --   -i 16A-IEO/
P90JECI V1ICIOAI TIECiSICEt                                                  IAULAA    INMERVPIOJFCIlD POJECtIO IO. OF    nO. Of    IO. OF SIISUI OIDED   fi*Ut-   NO. 6                 W. OF SPdUtI ML             all"
EOUC*rA1    CEIIIES                                                     E*us1Imi   SILDO.  NEUWI      IuSFRVICE hUA.ti1m%  ADINIS-   OlIIE  IIACIER  SIAFF  I*lE   a_Ises- aim "M                     UIT    SAF
AMIAL ENNOtt.   STtgENtS  IEACNIES  11AtO1S    SIAFF RATIO A0*10   IEiCII  IRAI*                 L SlIMf   M1I1     mile      M1Tl
1968    1OAL    1996        IALt)   1966          1968       1966  1966       1901     19           _  1199    "e    96    99         1114
198a                1996
~~~~. .. ...             .. ........    ..... ..     .. .. . ... ............ .............. .. .. . . .
19 ICIII WHiiE  UlDIING SCIIOt                                                        891      IS2      1,640        670       10t          *2    122          a        1      1X        42      in
20 I83I VOCATuOINAL SOI     OF (tECTlRNIC                                              nO      160      1,0C0        940        9iS                 2          10       2      me        iS       42        ltl        3        2
21 SIIZIIIU SLii VOCAIO3 t SCIIO0lt                                                   6SS      127        960           0                    I          s  a   10               u        is       2S                   6        2
22 MOlau I=TIONII s5C0D  0F  ECIbOiIIcs                                               749               1.060      1.170        as3          I       n 26       9        2               IS       S         12         *        2
23 MAIJItG  OAICIPAL IO. 13 lIGN SC110t                                               891               1.129 UV                 0           20      is        II        2              2a        2S        iS         9        2
24 XU6 I    IIO*. IVOC6A I ALsCaM                                                     700                 900        650         n            a     U           9        I           n                      I 46s       r        I
25 TANCEW.  CUIQIGIA  VOCAIli(L SCN0                                                  6.1               1,0I 0       405        66            3     36         13       2        s        I       IF        I? 1                2
26 ZHEmJIAUG SKILttFONIEPS SCNmL                                                      706      263      1,000        680        6            11      67        le        I     1         23      lit         s         *         1
27 LiAlUlSlAMG  LONOXEG VOCAlCillAt SCl( t                                            836               1.160        30          75          1      4*5        I         I     lo        1i      46         2         1        2
S1.-tOtaI                                                                        7, 19      702     9,769       S,505       711         1"      617        10        I      I"       "1       S05        II         6        1
TI IAJIW
28 tiaJIn    SuN   Of IIEIEII AO V3 DO I100DSIVt                                     6a9       166      1,200        320       III          62   1Us            a        1     lt        as       is IH               16 
29 I lJIiN SICmt' VOCATIONAL  8  IECt4ICAJt SilCO  Of CVPUlfV                         680               1.200      1.600        96           26      Is         7       2      120       n        U         le                  2
S3b-tets                                                                         1,559      166     2.600       1,920       20s          68    160          a        1      23t       9s       Ss                   6        2
SNA8UGN8I                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .~
wt0 SWAGAI Fl IEll  VOCATIONlAL AND FFCNcat SCHoo                                    5IS               ,D000         440       So           9      4r        12         1     1*0        9       ffr                            2       eol  :g
31 SlF4GHZ  ECOllIC IEIIIN  SC:IIOO                                                   Soot              1.00                    Ssa          13     So         9         1      1S,      13                 is a5  to1*
s.h 101.3 -86                                                                                 0      2,D00       6*.0        8a          22      97        0        I      215       22      12          9         S        I
0
P%,



45                                    ANNEX  3
Page 4 of 6
~~~~~.X*v6*  *         ...    4          *~~N           P.       Nr        * 
i     ls|''
,5!,5z i*   3"            LIII g
+.  ;l,.N                      s'4 a              - ^                   Nas 
:   >,   :         ~-   -                 ,*O       0 _44 _          
* WC -
_1     :       -              vF 
=       S
j      ~-aW          -              -f   - E-  f -ng                     f 
-                    S- 2    g        31e2F    O        
t   ;  o w              W i a                   O < ! F            U < X40~   S
h   X             |   i 8. | .   a   |   i a i 2 0 i.  a   !   .-3    =
AK^E          a-sIw               ~X



is ISrw ibnb.,cdst
CElIA
WV*lSATIU-1lCNUIC*L. IOUICATII0 PIOJCI
Basic Project institution Daet - VICs
IFACIE6/b. w                                $"WISUJ 
NOJECI VMIC*ltUM-IECICAt                                                   i1GCAAR   IIURV.POOJICIF0 PIt)JIC1IE  NO. OF    go. Do        s. of s1io6MTi 01163   hALI.    M. W0   *. u   516.11. E.
ESMAIC*m0  C001161                                                    5160116  S1111. *5116L*   IMUENVICE FUut-II. MMWE5S-   OIm.R TuACNs.  STAFF   IMm    MORRS   OM   11110191611                  0      5160f
ANUL 13001.   511"NI(UI   IEACERES  IMICOIS    STAFF RATIO    "fie0  ll ama IumU     notU   Wm                   mlme    Ms
1966    1O5*1    1994       (AJAL)   19m          t9M        tI$    tIm        "aK    193        19106   iK    11101111,994
1966               1991.
2lmJ lANE
46 Z16flAMm  9106134*  SCNOO  OF CG6MOICATIOIS                                      716      350      1.20 6W40              128          39    113         6        I     146.      42      is0         7         6        1
4? ZEMJIANG PIOVIKIAL SCNOOL OF fACEIME ImusIN                                      607      12?      1.000        600        a0          Ss      Po        II       I      133       is      a3         S         4        I
Sub-totat                                                                      1.323      4??      7.200     1.240       206          94    192          6        I      M9      112      la          7        4        I
'.8OENCOIU601CNI30IU1ILDING SCNOOI                                                  632      659      1.600        193       130          36    112?        6        I     ID3       n        a         U          6        I
49 CUOKOGiEG VOCAIIOfAs  W  IECIUICAL EOUICAIIOU Clifli                             450      210        920        ?20        4           26     42        IS        I      163      II       ST         9         3        I
SO CMUM  ISUICIPAI VOCATIOIAL SCNOf Of A*CNIIVCTUAE                                 52*      310      1.060      1.200        '.0         is     is        13        I      3 Si               3        191       la        2
Si CNIUUI UMICIPAI Mll"mi  VOXAlIOAt SCNGOL                                         71.9              1.060        26         SI          24     41         9        I      to6      16       is        Is         7        3
32 25903  lull VOCAIIofAI SCHO1                                                     S80                 940        190        74          Is     41         a        I      532       is       7         7         3        3
33 1153N* 30.1 VOCATIONAL SCNOO                                                     646      200      1.00)0       IsO        M0           7     20        IF        I      96        12       6        M6         a        I
Sup- totill                                                                    3.735   1.599      6.620      Z.76S       40?         131    261          9        I     631      547      21s        is         7       2
54 16N6*11 NACNIUI WJItDING SCNODL                                                1.11.1     414      1,600                  196         140    76          A        S      142     46       M          Iso        a        0
SS 56N611X1 PROVINCIAL TS4C1 37 CONHSIATIONCS                                     1.1.00              1.500        300       120         250    230        12        0      lie      M        M         12%        3        0
Sibh- total                                                                    2.5465     'I4     5.100        300       316         390  1.017          8              292       1141    an         II         2       6        to 
56 FWNrJj IIICIPAt 70(61191A1 fOtiCATIOf CEtIll                                     571                 690                   95          12     21         4        3       so       6       34        14         a        I       l.A .
57 ElIONE VO(A1103A1  S(6IU OfF 5fCj*0slj(5                                         656               1.060        300        56          3?      7        12        I      IN6      N9        2 z                          3       0
Sth- total                                                                     1,?2?        0     1.170         S00      151          1.1     2o         a       2      ISO       16       16        12        I        2        co



47                              ANNEX  3
Page 6 of 6
Iis~
* o   %*                  !  
* oii                     *: W
e t e b ;~~~
o     Z                             -      
a -             jj   
a ~   ~~ *                    -      
o                  - o      -   



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
48
CHINA
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assist.ance Proaram
1.       The technical assistance (TA) component of the proposed project as
summarized in the attached Table 1 is designed to accomplish the following:
(a) improve the skills of key administrators of the 59 VTCs, the 12
TTCs/TTDs, the 17 provincial/municipal education commissions
(PEdCs/MEdCs), and the SEdC; and increase the efficiency and quality
of school management;
(b) upgrade the specialized teaching staffs of the VTCs and TTCs/TTDs in
terms of : (i) their training in pedagogy and basic teaching skills;
(ii) their knowledge of the most advanced teaching methodologies
emp'oyed in VTE courses in the classrooms, laboratories and
workshops; and (iii) updating and broadening the subject matter of
the specialization that they teach;
(c)  develop a capability in VTE research fo.used in creating one national
and two regional VTE research and development (R&D) centers to equip
the centers and staff them with training, particularly overseas in
the methodology of VTE research and the operation of such centers;
and
(d)  develop expertise in particular areas of the operation of VTE systems
such as curriculum development, educational planning, facilities
planning, audio-visual/teaching materials production and distribution
and the computer application in VTE management in the SEdC and the 3
R&D centers that will be responsible for disseminating developments
in these areas to the PEdCs/MEdCs, the TTCs/TTDs, and VTCs.
Vocational Training Centers (VTCs)
2.       Overseas Proaram.  The focus of this program would be on the
development of expertise by the VTCs in operating an efficient, cost-effective
and up-to-date system of training in the specializations offered in their
schools. It would consist of the following elements:
(a)  Visiting Scholars.  Eighty-six selected staff members (60 (70Z) from
the five key provinces) from the teaching posts of key specializa-
tions such as machinery, electronic, chemical engineering, computer
technology and food processing technology would participate in one-
year visiting scholar programs to study in the universities abroad to
upgrade their knowledge of the fields and to familiarize with thc
vocational training methodology popularly used in the industrialized
countries. This element is designed to allow the study of subjects
to suit the individual needs of each faculty; and



ANNEX 4
Pace 2 of 5
49
(b)  International Expert Services.  Sixteen staff-2onths of international
specialist services would provide one-month seminars on VTE pedagogy,
computer-assisted education, and teaching methods of various subject
matters. Faculty members from PPIs of all project provinces/
municipalities would be organized in groups of 30 to attend the
eminars. In addition, the foreign consultants would provide
individual and group consultation to the seminar participants on the
issues they run into in teaching.
3.       Domestic Proram.  This component would enable specialized teachers,
practice instructors and lab technicians in the specialties to be upgraded in
the following aspects of their qualifications:
(a)  Pedanogical Inservice Courses.  One thousand five hundred ninety-nine
staff members who have not previously had formal teacher training or
training in the specializations they presently teach would undertake
courses of one year full-time study in the higher institutions
approved by the SEdC. This program over the period of six years
would concentrate more in the beginning years and is estimated to
reach over 34Z of the full-time teachers and lab instructors of the
PPIs. Another 840 teachers and instructors from PPIs and PPI
attending VTE schools, who have limited or out-of-date teacher
training and specialized knowledge, would be offered intensive
pedagogical and specialized training of two months in di'ration;
(b) Industrial Experience. Three hundred sixty specialized teachers and
lab/workshop instructors who lack experience in industry would
participate in the work experience programs averaging two months in
duration. Initiated by the project, the practice of requiring VTE
teachers to have and to update their industrial/factory experiences
would be formalized by the SEdC guidelines (to be drafted); and
(c)  Domestic Export Services.  Two hundred n:nety-eight domestic
university professors, lecturers and industrial engineers will be
invited to lecture in three-month courses offered for VTC and non-PPI
teachers, instructors and lab technicians.
4.       The above program should be reviewed every two years in line with
growth in the VTE sector to see that it enables a continuing program to be
established that will enable teachers of VTE to be kept up-to-date on a
regular basis with both developments in thoir specialties and VTE teaching
technology.
VTE Teacher Training Institutions
5.       Overseas Training Program (TTCs and TTDs).  The overseas training
program would provide 42 one-year scholarship for 42 TTC/TTD teachers in eight
major specializations (namely, machinery, electronics, computers, chemical
engineering, food processing, garment making, automobile and printing) to go
abroad and study the pedagogy and the specialization they are going to teach.
The fellowship recipients are also expected to disseminate the new knowledge
and skills that they have learned abroad upon return. Eleven of the 42
faculty members would be from the five TTCs/TTDs of the key provinces. These



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
50
programs would have the flexibility to study a combination of subjects that
would best suit the particular needs of each area. The selected staff would
be required to come back to resume their teaching posts in the TTCs/TTDs.
6.       International ExDert Services.  Seventeen man-months of international
services would be provided to the faculty groups from the TTCs and TTDs,
organized by major specializations.
7.       Domestic Proaram.  This component would consist of the following:
(a)  Pedagogical and Specialization Inservice Training Courses.  401
faculty members would undertake one year full time courses in
pedagogy, teaching methodologies and specialization pertaining to
VTE. These members would be selected because: (i) they have entered
VTE teaching directly from industry and have not had the opportunity
for pedagogical training; (_i) they were originally general subject
teachers and became technical-subject teachers only when their
schools were converted from general teacher training colleges to
TTCs/TTDs; and (iii) some of them have been teaching for a long
period and need to upgrade their knowledge to the state of art.
Among these teachers, there would be a certain portion of lab
instructors who would be responsible for the use of the new equipment
produced under this project. Another 314 staff members from the TTCs
and TTDs as well as the non-project higher institutions which would
provide teacher training for the project institutions, will attend
two-month seminars or courses offered by domestic experts or
university departments of advanced technology;
(b) Industrial Experience. Sixty-six specialized teachers and lab/
workshop instructors who have not had or have limited experience in
industry would be sent to the relevant industries and enterprises to
acquire work experience for two months; and
(c) Domestic Expert Services. 180 man-months (60 experts in 3 months of
duration each) domestic expert service would be spent on training and
consultancy for TTC/TTD teachers and administrators.
Trainins for Hanagement of VTE System
8.       This program would consist of:
Overseas Proaram
(a) Seven study tours would be organized for seven SEdC managers, 12
PEdC/MEdC officials and 16 selected TTC and VTC presidents and
principals. Of the 12 PEdC/MEdC officials, there would be one from
each of the 5 key provinces and 2 would be from the other two major
provinces which have relatively larger numbers of VTCs. The
participants of the study tours are expected to spend about 20 days
of each trip and learn the VTE administration, financing, and
instructional management;



Page 4 of 5
51
(b)  Six TTC and VTC managers would be sent abroad for one-year study
programs to learn specifically how to operate VTE institutions. SEdC
would salect these 6 managers on the basis of the ability of the
managers and that their institutions can surely have exemplary roles
amon; all project institutions;
(c) Ten staff-months of international expert services in VTE management
would enable one month seminars on specific topics to be provided to
groups of SEdC and PEdC/MEdC managers averaging 30 persons per group.
When the consultants come to China, they would also be expected to
provide consultation to the SEdC and PEdC/MdEC administrators on VTE
policies, management and rules and regulations.
9.       Domestic Program
(a) Twenty-five SEdC and PEdC/MEdC administrators, and 55 TTC/TTDs
managers would be sent to the higher institutions designated by SEdC
and PEdCs/MEdCs to join the 3-month training programs for upgrading
management skills. Another 10 SEdC administrators, 80 PEdC/MEdCs
managers and 330 institution managers would participate in one-month
seminars either in the colleges and universities or lectured by
foreign experts to learn managerial skills such as using manpower
projection to plan VTE expansion and to use a cost-effectiveness
method to evaluate the training programs, and they would aiso be
expected to share their experiences in the seminars. Of the 100
PEdC/MEdC managers receiving domestic training, 54 (54Z) would be
from the five key provinces, and of the 385 proposed project
institutions (PPI) managers receiving management training, 252 (652)
would be selected from the PPIs in the five key provinces in order to
have major impact with concentrated effort for the key provinces.
(b) Thirty staff-months of domestic consultants and VTE experts services
would be provided at the earlier stage of the project to the SEdC and
PEdCs/MEdCs. There would also be 24 staff-months of domestic expert
services offered to assist the project institution presidents and
principals on school-based administration and modernizing the
administration means and methods.



ANQNEX4
52                                   Table 1
Page 5 of 5
CHINA
VOCATIONAL-TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Su.mary of Technical Assistance Proaram
2. knages nt
Domestic Training  Ov.ro  o Trainina  DOmetic Exe .rt  Forelsn Expert
Administration  8-month   I-month  1-year    20-day             --month          1-month
tour
SEdC                 6         1i         9          7            S                  0
PEdCn               29         80         0         12            6                  4
PPIs                65        830         6         16            8                  6
I2. TTCs and TTDo
Dometic Training  Oversoox Training  Domestic Expert    Foreign Expert
>1-year   2-month         1-year             3-month              1-month
491       380            42                  69                   17
Of which:
in school                314
in factory                68
III. VTCo
Domstic Training   Overseas Training  Domestic Export          Foreign Expert
>1-year   2-month          1-year             3-month               1-month
1,699     1,200             es                 298                    16
Of which:
in school                640
In factory               85



files: ITCbes 'c
SOCAT 1011- TECEAICAL EMACAT IO  PIOACI
Basic Projeet Institutio Pe ATa - TTCs/ TThO
1906 1/                                                                               9
((SPAAB    1N134*. SIUD. HO. OF   ma. Of   HO. OF   STUDENT/ TEACMIE/ STUDENTh  POOACYIEO PeOJCT(D PQOJIC-  H.09 10. Of W.O          60. Of   11531/ T(AC/ 1113661  a. a    ao. of
PROJECI TTCs AND (TOo                EStLEN STIm.   FBS  FUAL-f   AD0I3IS OGINS    ((EACnE  ADMI113   MNIIN I  KAM    IUSASWIU ISo STI.PULL-I    WINISS  0DIM                       TEM    MITI.&  SKIS  L IMUS    MCILIfTI
*WA0IAL  P     TEACIiES IRsTIIS*~   STAFf    RAT10    O15 SlAF 0TH STAP (NIOLL.   S11k(15  PUS lO= IEKES (MISSt  SWAIN    Mf10    OW6SIN  0ff owTAN  MIm                  MsIS
TOTAL   POM.                                         RATIO    RATIIO                (455? 9011ff                                             SIlO     SAIO    C316    STUISI
I 1990)                                                                                                                                                 NECIL II,
I 0(125 UNITED UNIVERSITY TIC              1.113       0     66       Ism       11I       34         7         I        4      1,330       760       49?      300       ISO       so         4                  4         4    1,53
2 mANma  1OWAk  COLL(GAE, TTO                400     400      60      Ia?       126       12         2         1        I        700       440       491      299       1(6        12        a         2                  9       40~
3aGZwomITC                                   4137    400      40      127        51       119        4         I        2      TUGr        610       491      261       inI       265        1         I        S         a    I.53 
4 TIABJIM  Tic                             1,21'?    SW0    46        22        149       91         6         I        3      1.200        no       491       100      IS10      126        4         I         2        I        M1
11SSa*AI TIC                               1,62        0      60      319        92      232         6         1        5      2,100     I.,oo       491       129      114       Mi         S         I         I        a       fl
6 NAMKG JIAINUI VIC                        1,7?24    ISO      60k     149        6?       134       (2         1               2,630        no0      491       358      (0        152        1         2        4        is    1.111 M
F LUA   TIC                               1.133      TOO     Al0      251        6       340         S         I        2     3,000      2,300       491      462       lieO      M          6         I        3         A       we
SEOKI TIC                                  1.001      60      be      206        94      210         $         I        2      2,.2        so        491      3(6        U        pie        6         I        3         a    1.31
9Uson TIC                                    441      10      be       60         3       41         7         I        3      1,100       so0       49T      2M         90      29          0         I         3       TW    I.53
Is JILIN IIc                                1,221     10o     64       20        129      131         6         I        3     2,900      1,300       491      307       III       meS        9         I        6        I2      403
It1MJ1*66(EUGIKERIWUCOLLEGE.,TTO              329      33      66       A?         6         I        4        12        4       400        M0        491       I0                    3       4         9        4         S       M
12sng"AT        AISA L    If   CENOTERUD      3iI       S     65        41        20       20         7        I         .        M0        s00       491       so        Go       Go         0         I        4         a      81
21                                                                                     2/
TOTAL                                  11.S71   2,213    616    2.032        994    1,4.07         6        1         3    23100O    9,913    1,06    3,405    1,53    1,033                                  3        91    6,81
Annual Growth nate:                                                                                                           11.0L    21.91    61.91
I (xcope lTralnlng far the Poor Prowixesr calaory whmch ndheat.. 1990 ligise.
21 SCK providgi, at the rlgetiMtiew withi the total figures u.( (reining Io. the poor provinmos for eti T2 TICs MO1N6 l1e. retaom wetI
be submitted to the I"6 after the Jew ameting on project ipmttinprapaatiet Otwiiiasd by (SOC.
I, tnaens-I Cheic



f i tron t  I if
llt-lEtalm       t (wU3gts taUCt
*rOjC ticnu Of VcatigulWid lgcfnica.l Ihject l  I r Saiw  VPr        e
GAP
Ptltt           1o01L itECw  63s 3xisvits 8  t1c3n IEA    ------    tOtAL 11 E W*C  ED 3E13ST15  I3IERS cCmS   W        301a8 I3E*tC la" ElI1   I       SI I     Z I
19a            I_9  1/            1,11             199e             1990             1911                      19SW     1ow              t1w
. . . . . ............    .....   -- - - - -   - - - - - - - -   -I ... .. ... .. ...    .. ...............    .................    ... .... ..........    .. ..............    .................
4E3IVINA  ICIClA. GEtta SPCIAL. 6EtAL SPECIAL. 0tt6  SPECIAL. 0EtU3  SKCIAL. GEttEU SPECIAL. CRIMUIN,  CIAL. CEtlE U                IAL. SEtlK  _ SCIAL.
lEIJltl             4,307   8,614   6,816    7,416  2,509)  1.196   4,767   9,414    6,203   0.616  (1,496)    P"    S,50?  11,014    5,35   11(              in        (2)
LItlC               t.792   17.,SO   135S9f   14. 73   (4.604)  2.97  9S,050   16.116  12,7S2   16.26   (3.314)  1,5 I      .592   19.16   11._3   9.26  (1,19,)    (451
JIlWm               9.U   t9,656   10.923  13.016  (1,106)  6.620   1.49   26.91 9   6.f252   16.576        245   4,413  11.23  23.66   8,9_   n.            2.93        6
IIAJIN             2.724   S.449   6.59"       36  (3.615) (1.139)  299"    5,96    6.191   6.6    (,20)   (926)  3,524    7,39   5.3?4  ?7.6,   (1,)                    I
6am1               4. 59   9.s19   6.64      9.I" (7e662) 3t1   4,959   9,919 SS1.6"   9.6*              S (3.14?  231   S,359  la,9    7.U37 .?     .1   (1.6m1)       (9)
61i_tC4            10.192  0z.335   14.650   16.206  (4.08)  4.135   10,s92  21.13f  13744   16.394  (3S2   2.7M1   11.392  22.n       11.961   n.M           (  S)
*AEI                9,402   11,64   12413   14,225   (1,016) (2,4211  16,069  20,133  11,650   I7.0TI  (I.Sa61   3.66?  11.462  22n,6   14.114  a. 762    I,            41
_AM                 &6436  12,672    F.761   926    (1.325   3.664    Y.103   14,205 m   r,261   11,132    (17IT  2.03   3.436  16.32   6.321  116.3W    2.15             2
2ttEJ16             S32   710,F"    6.26    7, S2S    (876)  3.239   5,915   11,331  s'n    9,671           4    216 6" .2   13.96   5s."?  13S."s    1is                I
sicu               165,372  20,744   13,S31   15,491  (3,1S9)  S,S2  11,039  22.077  12,64   1655 S  ,6SS)  3,S52   12,312  24,74 T"          'il   2it73.3   (.32 
SNAXI               4,1480   3,261   5$S    6,639  0(1,11)  1,642   4,47`4   8,947   S489    7,353  (1,015)  1.694   5,166   16,21   4.115 *,131l              3 '
Wilm                4,64,   9,297 9   ,1S     6,416    (1SS)  2,861    S,248   10,497   4,873   ,Siu       376   1,60    6,446   12,21r   4,236   12,9u2   2.214         5
_13                1,26   23.41.   9,66?   l,9r          002    ,441   10,876  21,1SZ   9,013  16,125   I.&   S,42    12.2   23,416   7.66    36,41s   4.35              5
Kai3                7,4115  14,63   19,307   11,426  (2.622)  3,543    7,635   15.369   9,670   13,026   (.1195)  2.343   3.93   16,169   6.93   16,36        (3(9)    (Sri
l                   Y.7133   14,36S   9,62   11,116  (2.679)  3,2S5   .So3   IS,f165   9.252  lW,99,  (I,69)  2.169   3.333   16,3 5   6*l2   (6,3            131       (3)
JINSug              5 754   11,56    6.666    7,46     (2)  4,066111  6,207   12,515    5,637   9,642       6S0   2,733    73Sr4   14.M     4,3M3   14,3M   2.461         2
JILIN               7,O1U  1S,626   9,136   10,S35  (1.323)  5,09       3,013   16,l10 iO *,571   12,767    (491)  S3.3   6.3   1T,221    7.441   i,n1    *1R7           (S)
I? PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                            3
P63IES TO0AL  119,426  231,5   IS7,166  179,46  (7,2  52.366  127,161  254,321  147,262  214,762  (20.121) 39539  142,62  215,24  112,33 23.3114  14,33              (6 6)
M3IO6AL 1Oa1   11,S99   3s51,91   12,491  293,39  (76,49s) s50sw   i9,32r 39e,.6S  236,73  359,594  (37,S546   390,05  24S,96   491,97 2M5,r63' 491,96  6436            I
I/ EXISTING ISEACltS:  t1.es in the syste plus 1ft of dnum. nri,w teacher suppy tr I  the existing tcwher training
coIllgn md other unemrssty *rw.ates; Me mmmus 31 of annual *ttrittesn



55
Page 1 of 6
C}iINA
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Plan for Establishing Research Centers
Roles and Functions of Research Centers
National Center
1.   Identify research and development needs
2.   Plan research and development activities
3.   Supervise ongoing R&D activities
4.   Evaluate R&D results
5.   Disseminate R&D results
6.   Coordinate research centers and relevant ministries
7.   Distribute research funds and personnel
8.   Conduct policy researches and manpower planning
9.   Collect, analyze and disseminate information
Regional Centers
1.   Conduct researches assigned by the National Research Centei
2.   Collect, analyze and synthesize research findings in the field
3.   Provide technical assistance to schools, governments and industries
4.   Organize meetings, seminars, workshops and conferences
5.   Promote R&D activities in schools
Areas of Research and DeveloRment
1.   Policy researches
2.   Manpower demand and supply plans
3.   Job analysis of major occupations
4.   Vocational program development (courses and curricula)
5.   Instructional material development (textbook, workbook, teacher's guide)
6.   National testing and certification
7.  Vocational guidance and counseling
8.   Equipment study, teaching aids development, and operating mobile
maintenance unit
9.   Computer-based training and interactive video program development
10. Management and leadership development
11. Preservice and inservice teacher training (staff development)
12. Information service
13. VTE laws and regulations
14. VTE financing



56
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
Division of Research and Development Activities
National         Tianjin          Shanghai
R&D area                         center           center           center
1.  Policy research                    **
2. Manpower planning                   **
3. Job analysis                         o               **                *
4.  Program development                  o              **                *
5. Material development                 o                *               **
6.  Testing and certification            o              **                *
7. Vocational guidance                   o               *               **
8.  Equipment study                      o              **                *
9g  Computer-based training              o               *               **
10.  Management development              o                *               **
11.  Staff development                  **                *                *
12.  Information service                **                *                *
Legend: ** Major responsibility
* Supporting function
o Coordinating function



57
ANNE 7
Page 3 of 6
Organization of the National Research Center for VTR
Planning and     R&D Division
Supervision      Budget & Personnel Division
Bureau           Supervision Division
Steeri"|    Deputy              Evaluation        School Evaluation Division
Co ait  e      Director         Bureau            Research Evaluation Division
for Planning                      Development Evaluation Division
Dissemination    Editing Division
8 Bureau      t Printing Division
Distribution Division
Division of VTE Systems
Policy           Division of Laws & Regulations
Research         Division of VTE Financing
Bureau           Division of Cooperative Education
Division for Special Tasks
|Manpower        |Planning Divisionl
Planning         Supply Division
Bureau           Forecasting Division (Demand)
Director_
_'for Research
Staff            Performance-Based Teacher Ed.Div.
_Development      Micro-Teaching Division
Bureau           Video-tape Production Division
|Information|    |Acquisition Division|
l~~~~~~~~~~Cne                                 Circulation Division|
IData Base Division
AdmzinistrationI
|Bureaul



58
AEX 7
Page 4 of 6
Organization of the Tianjin Regional Rasearch Center
Technologist Division
I Job Analysis             Technician Division
Bureau                 Craftsoan Division
Service Sector Division
|Program    l          STS Division
Development            SVS Division
Bureau                 SWS Division
Polytechnic Division
Testing Standard Division
Testing and            Test Item Development Division
Certification          Testing Division
Bureau                 Registration and Certification
Division
Mobile Maintenance Unit
lEquipment             Facility Planning Division
_ Study Bureau             Prototype Design Division
Prototype Production Workshop
DcMentatio  & Puliato  Divsio
-[dmini-stration Office



59
AQNNE 7
Page 5 of 6
Oraization of th   haaa Regional  esearch Cant=
Material           Mechanical Engineering Division
Development        Electrical and Electronic Division
Bureau             Cheoical Engineering Division
Light Industry Division
Accounting and Finance Division
Vocational         Career Information Division
-  Guidance            Psychological Testing Division
Bureau             Counseling Division
Computer-          Instructional Systems Division
Based              Graphics Division
Training           Programming Division
Director     -Bureau              Input Division
Management         Management Research Division
= Development         Management Training Division
Bureau
|Documentation & Publication Division|



60
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 6
MINIMUM FULL-TIME STAFF RJEQUI&RJME
National       Tianjin        Shanghai
center      c-nterIL        center_         Total
Titlce                    1989   1995   1989   1995   1989   1995   1989   1995
Director                     1      1       1      1      1       1       3      3
Deputy Director              2      2       -      -       -      -       2      2
Senior Researcher           8      30      4      22      4      19     16      71
Researcher                  23     23      18     18     16      16      57     57
Research Assistant          31     24     23      18     19      14     73      56
Administrative staff        15     20      12     15      10     12      37     47
Total                 80    100      58      74     50      62    18     236
Notes: (1) Part-time researchers are excluded.
(2) Support staff are excluded.
MINIMUM OUALIFICATIONS OF RESEARCH STAFF
Research/
Teaching    industrial
Education   experience   experience            Status
Title                   level      ------- (years) -------       (equivalent to)
Director                 PhD            3             3
College president
Deputy Director          MS             6             4
Senior researcher        PhD            1             1   )   Full profbaoi:
MS             4             2
Researcher               MS             1             1   )  Associate professor
BS             3            2
Research assistant       BS             1             1        Lecturer



01
ANNE! 8
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Proiect Concentration on Five Key Provinces
1.       Five provinces/municipalities have been singled out for special
attention in the proposed project. They include the provinces of Liaoning and
Jiangsu and the municipalities of Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin. They are
hereafter referred to as key provinces. The key provinces merit such special
attention because their relatively more advanced education systems (both
quantitatively and qualitatively) and the predominant role of industry in
these provinces combine to make them an attractive possibility for achieving a
dramatic impact with a concentration of project funds. A comparison of the
educational attainment of their popul&tions with the national average below
makes clear that the key provinces have greater percentages of their
populations with higher educational achievements and, most importantly, have
greater proportions in the lower and upper secondary school levels ir. which
the project is targeted.
Table 1: EDUCATIONAL LEVELS OF POPULATION. 1986
(in 2)
University  University  Secondary  Lower         Primary  Total
Graduate    Under-       Graduate   Secondary  School
Graduate               Graduate   Graduate
National          0.45         0.16         6.63    17.75       35.38    60.37
Beijing           3.61         1.25        17.63    29.02       26.24    77.75
Tianjin           1.54         0.68        13.57    28.52       30.42    74.73
Shanghai          2.44         1.06       20.41    28.03        25.10    77.04
Jiangsu           0.47         0.17         6.90    20.06       32.63    60.23
Liaoning          0.74         0.29         9.38    27.63       35.62    73.66
Key Provinces
AveraRe 2       1.76         0.69        13.58    26.65       30.00    72.68
Source - China's Statistical Yearbook, 1987



Page 2 of 2
2.       In each key province, the industrial sector dominates all other
economic activities, ranging from 522 to 731 of the gross national income of
the key provinces and as illustrated in the table 2 below.
TABLE 2: NATIONAL INCOME AND INDUSTRY GENERATED INCOME, 1985 (RMB100M)
Ke- Provinces                Gross Income         Industry         X of Industry
Beijing                         194.50            122.10               62.8
Tianjin                         150.91             97.76               64.8
Shanghai                        409.73            299.53               73.1
Jiangsu                         578.46            299.17               51.7
Liaoning                        425.72            280.46               65.9
Total                     1,759.32          1,099.02               62.5
Source - China's Statistical Yearbook, 1987
3.       The industrial sector in the key provinces also is large relative to
China's total industrial production, as shown in Table 3 below. The combined
industrial output of the key provinces represent an impressive 33.8? of
China's GNP.
TABLE 3: GROSS INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT VALUE, 1986
(RMB 100 H)
Valute of               as Z of
Ind. output             all China
All China             11,194.23                100.0?
Beijing                  371.76                  3.3Z
Tianjin                  351.13                  3.12
Shanghai                 952.21                  8.5?
Jiangsu                1,235.22                 11.0?
Liaonins                 872.47                  7.8?
Total             3,782.79                  33.8?
Source - China's Statistical Yearbook, 1987



- 63 -
CHINA
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT AND CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(Y million)
VTCs     TTCs E      Mgt   Total
TTDs
Civil Works                37.7      15.2       0.0   52.9
Furniture                   7.6       1.2       0.0    8.8
Equipment                118.6       50.5       0.0  169.1
Books & Materials           1.4       1.7       0.0    3.1
Overseas Training           4.5       2.1       0.6    7.2
Local Training              9.2       2.4       0.4   12.0
Foreign Specialists         0.6       0.7       0.4    1.7
Local Specialists           0.5       0.1       0.0    0.6
Total Base Cost       180.1       73.9       1.4  255.4
Physical Contingency      17.2        7.1       0.1   24.4
Price Contingency         23.6        9.4       0.2   33.2
Total Proiect Cost   220.9        90.4       1.7  313.0
Foreign Exchange
Component               84.6       38.1       1.1  123.8



- o4 -
ANNEX 10
CHINA
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Government Administrative Structure for Proiect Implementation
- |TWO VICz-CHAIRMEN orSEC   
F
VOCATIONAL/TECHNICAL                                 FOREIGN INVESTMENT AND
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT                                   LOAN OFFICE (FILO)
Project Coordination Division
Procurement Division
Technical Assistance Division
Finance Division
Adminictrative Su-,port Division
PROVINCIAL PROJECT IMPLEMEN ATION OFFICE
Project Director - Deputy Director of
Provincial Education Commission
Deputy Project Director - Chief of
Planning and Finance Division of
Provincial Education Commission
Chief of VTE Division of Provincial
Education Commission
Equipment Section
Construction Section
Finance Section
PROJECT SCHOOL IMPLEMENTATION OFFICE
Project Director         - President/Principal or Vice
President/Vice Principal of
Project School
Deputy Project Director - Dean of Studies
Equipment Section        - Chief of Equipment Section
Construction Section    - Chief of Construction Section
Finance Section          - Chief of Planning and Finance
Section
Accountant Clerks
PROJECT SCHOOL       PROJECT SCHOOL       PROJECT SCHOOL       PROJECT SCHOOL
DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT
Chairman             Chairman             Chairman             Chairman



ARM  11
VOCATIOA  AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Pro iect 1.,21e.ntation Schedule
FY     1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
CY          89      90       91      92      93      94
Loan Processing
Negotiations                             X
Board presentation                           X
Credit signing                                  X
Effectiveness                                      X
Project closing                                                                    X
Civil Works
Bidding & contract awards                    X
Construction not yet started                   IUUUDUUDOLUXULL>X
Construction warranty                          IX5UUXIUU00U02OULXDUXUUUUU
Furniture
Procurement                                XXXX
Delivery                                       XXXXXXXXiXXXXXX
EguiRment
Preparation of equipment lists        XXXX
Preparation of bidding documents        XXXXXXXXXX
Delivery                                         xIUXUU    ULUUUUDUUUUU UEXXX
Warranty
Technical Assistance
Identification and processing of
candidates                            XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Study tours                                XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Fellowships                                     xxJxOOODOOOOOL:CuLrxYJ   xKJxxxxxx
Foreign specialists                          IEIUDUUUUUDUUUUUUUUDUODUUEIUUUUUUU
Monitoring and Evaluation
Annual progress report                   X                X       X       X
Mid-term reviews                                                     X
Project completion report                                                   X
Audit report                                                                      X



2=.
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNIA   DUAION PROJECT
KE I    m taion Dates
Activity                                            Start              Completion
Civil Works
Buildings now under construction                       -              Dec 1989
Buildings to be constructed                     Jul 1989              Dec 1991
Preparation of equipment lists                  Sep 1988              Mar 1989
Government and Association
agreement on equipment lists                         -              May 1989
Preparation of bidding
documents                                     Sep 1989              Mar 1991
Tendering                                       Jan 1990              Jun 1991
Contract signing                                Mar 1990              Aug 1991
Delivery                                 April/May 1990               Mar 1992
Technical Assistance
Local training of project school
staff                                         Sep 1990
Foreign specialists visit project
schools                                       Sep 1990
Fellowship program                              Sep 1990
Study tours                                     Oct 1990



67                      AM=X 13
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Proiect's First-Year Activities
Month/Year                                         Activity
Eouivment. Books and
Teaching Materials
Jun/Jul 1989           Complete the disaggregation of equipment lists into
appropriate groupings for procurement purposes. This
will determine the size and numbers of groups to be
procure', both locally and abroad.
Jul 1989               Initiation of procurement of books and teaching materi-
als by either competitive price quotations from local
and foreign suppliers or, where appropriate, by direct
purchase from publishers.
Sep 1989               Begin preparation of equipment specifications and bid-
ding documents for LCB procurement of instructional
equipment. The time required for completion of each
group of equipment will depend on the size and complex-
ity of each group, but will range from two to four
months.
Dec 1989/Jan 1990      Advertise locally for LCB procurement of first groups of
equipment.
Jan 1990               Begin preparation of equipment specifications and bid
documents for ICB procurement.
Feb 1990               Evaluate LCB bids.
Mar 1990               Award LCB contracts.
Apr/May 1990           Receive first groups of equipment procured through LCB.
Publish bid documents for equipment to be procured
through ICB and advertise internationally.



68                         ANKII  13
Page 2 of 3
Month/Year                                          Activity
TA Program
Jun 1989               Continuation of SEdC's efforts to contract an agency to
help execute the TA program. This will involve solici-
tation of proposals from some or all of the followingt
nonprofit organizations, and universities experienced in
providing TA.
Continuation of selection process to identify candidates
from the project school administrators and teaching
staff for the 2 months and 12 months training programs
at local normal universities.
Continuation of negotiations with local universities
involved in the above program to provide the desired
training to the selected trainees.
Work is started on the creation of an executive body to
manage the pedagogy and management training programs.
This group, chaired by SEdC, would include
representation from selected PEdCs and MEdCs. It would
be responsible for:  (a) selecting the sites at which
the one week seminars would be conducted; (b) a
timetable of training sessions that would be agreeable
to PEdC and MEdC staff and to the project schools'
administrative staff and the expert teachers;
(c) procedures to ensure adequate logistical support to
the trainees (transportation, housing, subsistence); and
(d) selection procedures to ensure early identification
of all trainees.
Jul 1989               Agreement between PRC and FRG under which FRG will
provide equipment, overseas training, and foreign
specialists is declared effective.
Sep 1989               First group of German specialists arrive in China to
conduct short training sessions and first group of
Chinese VTE specialists depart for Germany for training
in VTE and research methodology.



69                      ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 3
Month/Year                                         Activity
May 1990               All above arrangements for the implementation of the
local pedagogy and management training programs have
been completed and all candidates for the first year of
the program have been identified, vith the approval of
their principals, department heads, or supervisors.
Aug 1989               All candidates for the 1990/91 local university training
program have been identified, and accepted by local
universities.
Jun 1990               Contract with TA consulting agency is signed by the
SEdC.
Civil Works and Furniture
Jul 1989               Balance of project construction is started
Continuation of construction now underway
Continuation of furniture procurement by means of local
shopping for buildings under construction
Dec 1989               Completion of buildings now under construction



*lI.inguuItmr
CNINA
VOUTIONAL-TECmICAL EUCATIO  PitECT
Projet Omntitative Nonitoring indicatorg 11
ACTUAL  T*EAC / II. OF ACTIMI    f           ACIU
PCJIW    ACTUMI ME      CES ACUTE    NO. OF    ACTUAL  STUEMI/ STUhfTI OTStR  1ILS  M. OW    FACILITY FACILITY
Proj et lItltutlen                                 Mg"    ELL. IUERVICE IERV. FULL-TIME FULL-T  TEACNER  TEACER  STAFF  US161U               WC J    TILIL. UIILIE.t
EIEL.  Of TNE  STUDENS  STMOTS TEACNERS  TEACHERS RATIO  RATIO   RATIO  COTO   ISIU  CM  iTE !                  iTE
19t    TEA       (NMLI STWENTlS 1994          TEA     19      YEDR       19t   FACILITY FACILITY
c    I   1991      C    )            (    )           (    1999t ,                      )    19_      
EIJIIISIll.t 1?INT It_RWT                                                  1.211               150                lOl                10                1 Tcbe                     WI
KIJIW  10.2 LIMt I1l7pTW Kok                                                 1l6                  11.5                71               10                I lwidd                    on
*IJIU  ISlIE        MNU -            TIL WIE111.                             11.10             1.050                 6                 12                1                          "a
KIJIII WISE. OF MainEIMYRY                                                  1,26M               180                 66                 9                2                          on
OEIJtlTS  1,l3otllW SE.                                                      1.006               560                  71               13                2
EIJIIIII ~hXIIWIICS  P1101W  W                                              1.000             21                                      10 71  10         2Z
EIJIII M        IEW   ICIITI1  WSC . OF CIVIL ELNIC?TIU. APLIACES            1 .06             3,520                  39               13                2
EIJIIV 10.126 ICATIOUL        TECCOICAL  r t OF LECTTOICS                    1,000             6.240                 65                14                1 
*b-tote!                                                                     8896             13S98s                 552               11              1.5                          1            O
LIAWIMU
$NIM=  UICIPAL WNSE. OF UShfINY AM  mEECTSlnc  I1UWST                        1,40                780                 97                 9                1
LIMInS PIIWIAL WISEC   OF LINT IMIT                                          1.00                301.                128                9                1
LIAUUS PRoKIAL WSE. OF ELECtEIC Im_h                                         1,20                600                  74                9                I1
tHE 66.1 SlUM  IISRKE4 WISE. USER 855616 LMU* URINE                          1,320               120                 7S                12                I                          1o
$KWA Y      ICIPAL vUrtCioCUL nUICil cow1                                    IO                  160                 69                1S                2                          95
SIAIE  IUCIPAL      1 I       IIA    I= WCTIUKM  WUNM                        1 s,m               5140                 S8               14                2                          gm
SALIIT   ti lOCTIOIL umAiU CT                                                1,6        200                           80               11                2                          901
ALIM l IIUTItL AsM CEUICIAL WUsCm   OF EtCTIOICS                             1,450               520                  00               18                4                          90
TMIUII AM IOE0luh1P CEIITE  OF ALIAM MWATIOIAL  rIn                            300               420        O        45                 7                3                          gm
LIAOMING PWIUCIAL PETRCENICAL ENGIUEERIU; sCIloL                             1,260               280                 96                 8                1                          91
Su-total                                                                    11430             4.524                804                11                1                          9tt
I/ This Is M @.e  of the <untitative hnd cetorc.  At project spetrvlhsin. ech project institution would provide the sam  inforation an tle. ImndiCtor..
JIAl                                                                                                                                  ERR
-------                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERR
Elt\t~~~S
S_
O 
W-



71
ft 11nem:monltor2
Arnex 14
Pag 2 of 3
CNINA
VOCATIOSAL AD TICNMICAL EDUCATION POJECT
Project Dualitative  Nitoring Inalcators
Apct           Nethod of      Tim  Length   Report              Issues to Monitor
Nonitoring      of Report  Due Date
Effectiveness of   VTC's periodic   Arnually   Jure of   The report should exmine wnd report the following
School Mnagemnt  report to                      the Year aspects:
PEDC/SEDC;                            1. whether the open-schooL policy (1/) has affected
SEDC periodic                         the overaLl acadmic performnce of the perticips-
report to the                         ting students frm other schools (show evidence of
WorLd Bank                            isprovemnt);
supervision                           2. whether the VTC school mnagement is effective in
missions                                 - adequtely scheduling the exercise by utilizing
aLL originaLly-veicant hours of the labs and
practice grounds;
maximizing the teacher/instructor's contact
hours by giving them full sssigneent incLuding
instructing students from other schools;
fully engaging the school facilities and
equipent in use;
eliminating the non-teaching staff by
redeploymnt and other methods;
condckting a reasonable cost-sharing schme
with the participating schools;
- adequately keeping a mintennce budet, and
how well is It helping assist the project-
provided facilities and equipment?
- student counseling end job allocation.
Improvinnt of       VTC's periodic   Anually   June of  Along with the quantitative informtion provided
the Quality of      report to                   the Year  in p.1 of the Annex, the Report should describe
VTC  nd non-project PEDC/SEDC;                               - the process of VTC teacher/instructor training
School Teachers     SEDC periodic                              and re-training arragemnt;
and Instructors     report to the                            - how well are the upgraded teachers allocated
World Bank                                 and whether the training has made difference
supervision                                In their teaching performnce;
missions                                 - teacher performnce ude,r the project-specified
higher teaching loads;
- the process of raising teaching load In the
non-project schools.



72
Anvwx U
Page 3 of 3
CHINA
VOCATIONAL AMD TECNHICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Qulitative Monitoring
Aspect          Method of       Time Length   Report                  Issues to Monitor
onitoring        of Report   Due Date
Improvement of       PEDC's periodic Annuilly   June of    The report should exmine  wnd describe
VTE-Industry         report to                     the year       - when the liason committee was estabtished
Liuson               SEDC;                                          (first year after the project is effective);
SEDC's periodic                             - how frequentLy the meetings between the PEDC
report to the                                 and industrial representatives are heLd;
World Bank                                  - how the liason comittee's discussions are
supervision                                   affecting VTE schooL curriculum improvement?
missions                                    - how the lioson committee has assisted the
students practice and allocation in industry.
leprovement of       PEDCs report       Annually   June of   PEDC to report their staff strangthening progress
High LeveL           to SEDC;                       the Year  through
VTE Management       SEDC periodic                                - Staff training;
report to the                               - visiting tours;
WorLd Bank                                  - VTE management conferances and seminars and
supervision                                   experience exchange meetings, etc.
missionr



ArNNi.A L
73
CHINA
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
A. Selected Documents and Data Available in Proiect Files
1.  Sector Report, Technical/Vocational Education in China's
Development, August 7, 1987
2. Education Sector Strategy paper, ASW3 peper, June 1, 1988.
3. Vocational Training in the People's Republic of China, Structures,
Problems and Recommendations, study by German experts
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
4. China's Vocational-Technical Education in year 20000, SEdC document
5. Training and Upgrading of Skilled Workers in Shanghai, study
conducted for SEdC and Shanghai Municipal Government by German
experts
C. Working Papers
6. Public Education Expenditure in China, 1983-1985, Keun Huh
(consultant), August 1987
7.  Budgetary Expenditure of VTE Institutions and Cost Savings by the~
Project, Keun Huh (consultant), December 15, 1988
8. Plan for Establishing Research Centers in Vocational and Technical
Education, Jeoung-Keun Lee (consultant', November 10, 1988
9. Computerization Plan for Vocational and Technical Education in
China, Jeoung-Keun Lee (consultant), January 23, 1989
10. Project Brief, August 1, 1988
11. Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire
12. Detailed Project Institutions' Cost Tables provided by SEdC
13. Sino-German Minutes of Discussions signed by Mr. Wang Ming-Da, Vice-
Chairman of SEdC and Mr. Lengl, State Secretary of the Ministry of
Economic Cooperation, FRG



