Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2114 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Vocational and Technical Education Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 23, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2114 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated May 23, 1990, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Federal Republic of Germany has the intention to assist in financing 
Part C of the Project with a grant (the FRG Grant); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January l, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
(a)
"SEdC" means the Borrower's State Education Commission and any successor 
thereto;
(b)
"Project Provinces" mean Liaoning, Jiangsu Provinces and Beijing, 
Tianjin, Shanghai Municipalities (hereinafter called the "Key Provinces") as well as 
Shandong, Hubei, Hunan, Zhejiang, Sichuan, Shaanxi, Fujian, Guangdong, Hebei, Henan, 
Jiangxi and Jilin Provinces;
(c)
"Project Implementation Agreements" means the agreements to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Project Provinces pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended, from time to time; and
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-eight million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 38,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made or, if the Association shall so agree to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate 
set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that 
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may 
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that 
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn  And outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June l and December l in each year.
Page  3
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June l and December 1 commencing June l, 2000 and ending December 1, 2024. Each 
installment to and including the
installment payable on December 1, 2009 shall be one and one-fourth percent (l-l/4%) 
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by then of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SEdC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate educational and management practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to the 
Project Provinces on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out under 
Project Implementation Agreements, acceptable to the Association, to be entered into 
between the Borrower and each of the Project Provinces, including the terms and 
conditions set forth in Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Project Implementation Agreements or any 
provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Page  4
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower (including the Project Provinces) responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than eight months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any party to any of the Project 
Implementation Agreements shall have failed to perform its obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  5
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Implementation Agreements have been executed on behalf of all 
parties thereto;
(b)
the Borrower's State Council has approved this Agreement; and
 
(c)
all necessary arrangements have been made for the provision of the FRG 
Grant.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project 
Implementation Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by all parties 
thereto, and are legally binding upon the parties in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing, 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
249423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Page  6
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated      % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category           SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Equipment,      
    30,100,000
100% of foreign
    books and                            expenditures,
    materials                            100% of local
                                         expenditures
                                         (ex-factory
                                         cost) and 75% of
                                         local expendi-
                                         tures for other
                                         items procured
                                         locally
(2) Consultants'           620,000       100%
    services
(3) Overseas             1,460,000       100%
    training and
    fellowships
(4) Local training       3,310,000       100%
(5) Unallocated          3,010,000
       TOTAL            38,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  7
The objectives of the Project are to expand and upgrade the secondary vocational 
and technical education (VTE) system and the technical teacher training system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Vocational Training Centers
 
Improvement and strengthening of 59 secondary VTE schools in 13 Project 
Provinces to develop into vocational training centers to serve as models for further 
development of VTE.
Part B:
Technical Teacher Training Colleges/Departments
 
Strengthening of 9 technical teacher training colleges and 3 university 
technical teacher training departments to expand enrollments and upgrade the quality 
of laboratory and workshop instruction.
Part C:
VTE Research and Development Centers
 
Establishment of a national and 2 regional VTE research and development centers 
to research and recommend policy measures to improve the quality, efficiency, and 
cost-effectiveness of VTE system and to develop teaching materials and equipment for 
VTE schools.
Part D:
Training of VTE Management Personnel
 
Improvement of VTE management capabilities at each level of VTE through local 
and overseas training programs for VTE administrators and local and foreign experts' 
services.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 
per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000 may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
Page  8
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association. 
3.
Items that are proprietary or needed for standardization with existing equipment 
may be purchased up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, 
subject to prior approval by the Association, directly from suppliers in accordance 
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Books and printed teaching materials, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of $1,100,000, may be purchased directly from suppliers in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix l to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement. 
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix l 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Project Implementation
Part A:
Implementation Program
 
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Association for comment, by September 1 
of each year, commencing September l, 1991, a report on the progress during the 
previous year in Project activities in accordance with indicators agreed with the 
Association; and (b) no later than December 31, 1992, conduct a mid-term review with 
the Association of the Project-supported improvements to be introduced into VTE 
system.
2.
The Borrower shall cause the training under the Project to be carried out in 
Page  9
accordance with programs agreed with the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall cause each Project Province to maintain a Project 
Implementation Office with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Association, and with qualified staff in adequate numbers.
Part B:
Project Implementation Agreements
 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, each of the 
Project Implementation Agreements shall contain the provisions listed in Part A of 
this Schedule, as appropriate, and the following other provisions:
1.
Each of the Project Provinces shall declare its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.
Each of the Project Provinces shall agree to undertake measures agreed with the 
Association to make its vocational technical education system more efficient, 
cost-effective and responsive to changing needs.
3.
Each of the Project Provinces shall agree to carry out its respective 
component(s) of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate educational and management practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such 
Component(s).
4.
Each of the Project Provinces shall annually allocate sufficient funds for the 
maintenance, repair and purchase of spare parts for the laboratory and workshop 
equipment of schools or institutions assisted under the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph l of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the
Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
Page  10
furnish to
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
made 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  11
