Report No. 17923
Paraguay
Impact Evaluation Report
Community-based Rural Water Systems
and the Development of Village Committees
Rural Water Supply Project (Loan 1502 PA), Rural Water Supplv ancl Sanitation
Project Il-l1l (Loans 2014, andc 3519 PAx
May 29, 1998
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency unit = Paraguayan Guaranies
US$1.00 = G.2,192.00
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CORPOSANA            Corporation for Sanitary Works
CWSS                 Community-based Water Supply and Sanitation
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
GNP                  Gross National Product
G.                   Guarani
IER                  Impact Evaluation Report
NGO                  Nongovernmental Organization
O&M                  Operation and Maintenance
OED                  Operations Evaluation Department
RWS                  Rural Water Supply
SENASA              National Environmental Sanitation Service
Director-General, Operations Evaluation             Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department          Ms. Elizabeth McAllister
Acting Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group   Mr. Roger Slade
Task Manager                                       . Mr. Ronald Parker



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May29, 1998
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Impact Evaluation Report on Paraguay
Community-based Rural Water Systems and the Development of Village Water
Committees
Rural Water Supply Project (Loan 1502-PA)
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project II-III (Loans 2014 and 3519-PA)
Attached is an impact evaluation report (IER) on three rural water supply (RWS) projects in
Paraguay. In 1978, Paraguay RWS I was the first stand-alone RWS project financed by the Bank. Four
RWS projects (most recently RWS IV, approved in 1997) have benefited from US$80.8 million of Bank
lending. The objective of this evaluation is to assess the impacts of the World Bank's assistance program
on the performance of Paraguay's rural water subsector. The study used a participatory approach based on
an evaluation workshop, key informant interviews, field visits, systematic data collection (including
surveys of randomly selected key stakeholders), and beneficiary interviews.
The fundamental objective of the projects was to mitigate precarious living and health conditions
in rural communities by providing safe water supply and sanitation facilities. The loans have financed the
work of the National Environmental Sanitation Service (SENASA) with juntas de saneamiento, nonprofit
committees legally constituted to manage water and sanitation within towns and villages of 400 to 4,000
inhabitants. Each Bank loan has followed the same community-based strategic approach, requiring that
each participating village operate and maintain its water system. Successive loans have extended coverage
to new communities and geographic regions.
Bank support for the rural water subsector in Paraguay has made a significant difference in the
lives of rural families in a large geographic area. The three loans that have been implemented have led to
the establishment of 275 functioning community-based water systems giving more than 400,000 people a
safe water supply and raising the coverage of rural areas from around 1 percent to about 20 percent over a
20-year period. SENASA records show that more than 210,000 sanitary units have been constructed in
rural areas, not all of which are in the project area or were built with Bank assistance. In addition,
SENASA delivered 952 training courses on health and hygiene and on water system management. These
have directly benefited approximately 160,000 individuals, not counting the impact of the education on
their families and the juntas themselves.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
An OED review of Ministry of Health data for a 10-year period compared hospital visits for five
villages that had received potable water through the project with five others that had not: deaths due to
diarrhea were seven times higher in unserved villages. Similarly, a study of 150 villages found that over
95 percent of recent (self-reported) stomach distress had occurred in households that had not received
potable water through the projects. More impacts of the RWS loans will become apparent soon. Many
juntas (149) have not yet begun to deliver services because their systems are still in the design phase or
under construction. Including these juntas, SENASA has helped create 424 local organizations. All of
these will ultimately operate systems that regularly deliver potable water to their communities. The track
record to date is exceptional. Not one junta has ceased to deliver services once its water system became
operational-an organizational task of massive proportions and a significant community development
achievement. The institutional development achieved is impressive: the hundreds ofjuntas that have been
established in rural villages are stable and growing; and their members and directors have been trained to
operate reasonably complex water delivery systems. The villagers maintain their own piped network,
ensure the functioning of the pump(s) and water storage facilities, keep the system operational, keep
books, and hold regular meetings. Almost all juntas have expanded their original operation, taking in new
members and providing service to a broader pool of beneficiaries without additional Bank support. The
RWS projects have also created employment and leadership opportunities for women in rural villages.
The greatest immediate threat to sustainability of the committees is excess consumption,
commercial use, and misuse of water. The juntas' water systems were designed with only enough capacity
to provide water for normal household purposes. Extravagant use-and there is no incentive to conserve
water-can strain the system and leave the majority with an inadequate supply. Of concern in the
intermediate term is that tariffs and fees for connection and disconnection do not reflect the true cost of
operations in mostjuntas. Cost recovery and financial management are also serious issues. The juntas
have a good record of water bill collection: receivables represent 5 to 15 percent of annual sales. About 49
percent of the Bank-financed juntas are one or more months in arrears to SENASA.
Further attention is indicated in some areas. Tariffs need to be set at sustainable levels. Weak
juntas need additional administrative help over the short term.Water meters should be covered in the
loans for new juntas, and existing juntas that are up to date with their payments should have access to
credit sufficient for universal metering of household use.
Robert Picciotto by
Elizabeth McAllister



I
Contents
Preface ...........................................3
Executive Summary ...........................................5
1.    Study Objectives, Methodology, and Context .11
Objectives and Scope of the Impact Evaluation .11
Methodology .12
Paraguay: Poverty and the Rural Areas .12
Municipalities: Historically Weak but Gaining Importance .13
2. The Project.14
Community-based and Utility-based Approaches in the Water Sector .14
Sector Context.. 15
Governmental Strategy .16
Institutional and Legal Framework for Water Supply in Paraguay .17
Self-help Committees .18
Project Objectives and Components .18
Objectives .19
Components .19
3.    Water and Sanitation Service Provided, and Resulting Health
Benefits .21
Water Use .22
Sanitation Infrastructure .23
Impact of Water and Sanitation Infrastrmcre. .23
Operational Effectiveness of the Junta Water Systems .............................................  25
Quality Monitoring ....................................              26
4.    Community and Institutional Development Achievements .27
The Growth of Committees for Water and Sanitation .27
Private Sector Providers .27
Impact on Women .28
Poverty Ipact .30
Environmental Impact .31
Health and Hygiene Training .31
Stretch Objectives for SENASA .32
Missuse of Water and Excess Consumption .35
This report was prepared by Mr. Ronald Parker (Task Manager) and Ms. Reno Dewina (Research
Assistant).



2
Economic Benefits of the Rural Water Supply News ........................                             .............    36
System  Expansion and Rehabilitation Refinancing .....................................                                 36
Debt Service .....................................                                                                     37
Sustainability of SENASA's Participation .....................................   38
5.         Cost Recovery and Sustainability .....................................                                                 35
Operation and Maintenance/Equipment Replacement .....................................                                  34
Misuse of Water and Excess Consumption .....................................                                           35
Economic Benefits of the Rural Water Supply Projects .....................................                             36
System  Expansion and Resultant Refinancing .....................................                                     40
6.         Conclusions and Recommendations .....................................                                                 41
Conclusions .....................................                                                                       40
Factors of Performance .....................................                                                            41
Recommendations .....................................                                                                    42
Annex
A.         Summary of Project Objectives and Achievements .....................................                                     45
Attachment
Comments from the Borrower .47



3
Preface
The first standalone rural water supply (RWS) project financed by the World Bank was
Paraguay RWS I in 1978. Including that first loan, the Bank has approved US$92.2 million for
four rural water supply and sanitation projects in Paraguay. The most recent of these, RWS IV,
was approved in August 1997. Only two of the projects have been completed (Loans 1502-PA and
2014-PA). The third (Loan 3519-PA) is nearing completion. This Impact Evaluation Report
assesses the medium- and long-term impacts of the rural water infrastructure constructed with the
proceeds of these loans. The report was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
of the World Bank. Field research for the study was conducted over a period of about one year.
The study team profited greatly from close collaboration with the Latin America and the
Caribbean Country Department I, which paid and supervised the consultants who conducted the
field survey. The study team particularly wishes to acknowledge SENASA for its participation,
the UNDP-World Bank Andes Region Water and Sanitation Group for its assistance, and the task
manager of Rural Water III-IV, Luis Chang, for his help. The Centro de Salud Publica San Juan
and the Eighth Sanitary Region generously donated staff time and shared relevant health data with
the study team. The team is also grateful to Letitia Obeng for her helpful comments on the work
in progress. Karin Kemper shared her insights from preliminary data analysis work on the
questionnaire.






5
Executive Summary
1.    The objective of this evaluation is to assess the impacts of the World Bank's assistance
program on the performance of Paraguay's rural water subsector. The impact evaluation team
used a participatory approach based on an evaluation workshop, key informant interviews, field
visits, systematic data collection (including surveys of randomly selected key stakeholders), and
beneficiary interviews.
The Projects
2.    In 1978, Paraguay RWS I was the first standalone rural water supply (RWS) project
financed by the Bank. In total, the Bank has approved US$80.8 million for four rural water
supply projects, the most recent of which was RWS IV, approved in September 1997. Only two of
the projects have been completed (Loans 1502-PA and 2014-PA). The third (Loan 3519-PA) is
nearing completion.
3.    The fundamental objective of the projects was to mitigate precarious living and health
conditions in rural communities by providing safe water supply and sanitation facilities. The loans
have financed the work of the National Environmental Sanitation Service (SENASA) with juntas
de saneamiento, nonprofit committees legally constituted to manage water and sanitation within
towns and villages of 400 to 4,000 inhabitants. Each Bank loan has followed the same
community-based strategic approach, requiring that each participating village operate and
maintain a standalone water system. Successive loans have extended coverage to new
communities and geographic regions.
4.    The juntas are responsible for all aspects of the community water system: they maintain a
well site, keep pumps and the piped network in working order, clean and maintain water towers
and reserve tanks, and handle accounting and monthly billing. In all the above, they work under
the supervision of SENASA and with its assistance.
Achievements and Impacts
5.    The three loans have led to the establishment of 275 functioning community-based water
systems giving more than 400,000 people a safe water supply and raising the coverage of rural
areas from around 1 percent to about 20 percent over a 20-year period. In addition, SENASA
delivered 952 training courses on health and hygiene and on water system management. These
have directly benefited approximately 160,000 individuals, not counting the impact of the
education on their families and the juntas themselves. More than 210,000 sanitary facilities were
built in the rural areas, although most were constructed with other donor-induced investment
rather than through activities of the Bank projects.
6.    An OED review of Ministry of Health data for a 10-year period compared hospital visits
for five villages that had received potable water through the project with five others that had not:
deaths due to diarrhea were seven times higher in unserved villages. Similarly, a study of 150
villages found that over 95 percent of recent (self-reported) stomach distress had occurred in
households that had not received potable water through the projects. Perhaps the most important
impact, however, is the epidemic that did not happen. During many of the years the RWS projects



6
were active, cholera was rapidly spreading in the region. The projects' activities in hygiene
education, sanitation, and the provision of potable water were probably instrumental in ensuring
that Paraguay's rural population managed to escape the threat of cholera.
7.    More impacts of the RWS loans will become apparent soon. Many juntas (149) have not
yet begun to deliver services because their systems are still in the design phase or under
construction. Including these juntas, SENASA has helped create 424 local organizations. All of
these will ultimately operate systems that regularly deliver potable water to their communities.
The track record to date is exceptional. Not one junta has ceased to deliver services once its water
system became operational-an organizational task of massive proportions and a significant
community development achievement.
8.    The RWS projects have also created employment and leadership opportunities for women
in rural villages. While women tend to be poorly represented among the elected leaders of the
juntas, and only slightly better off in employment, their participation has been increasing. In 1996,
women were 6 percent of junta presidents, 8 percent of vice-presidents, 27 percent of secretaries,
and 17 percent of treasurers.
9.    Another direct benefit of the project was improved income distribution. About half the
families previously without access to public supplies purchased water from private vendors at
prices of up to US$8/m3. Under the project, they have access to larger volumes of safe water at a
family expenditure of about 4 percent of the annual poverty threshold income level (see Table 5.1)
as opposed to 12 percent of the annual poverty threshold income for limited quantities of unsafe
water. Other project benefits on the community level include improved local coordination
capacity, reduced disparity between rich and poor in terms of basic household amenities,
improved environmental hygiene, and a strengthened private sector. At the household level,
benefits include time and energy savings and productivity gains due to health improvements.
Sustainability
10.   The greatest immediate threat to sustainability of the committees is excess consumption,
commercial use, and misuse of water. The juntas' water systems were designed with only enough
capacity to provide water for normal household purposes. Extravagant use-and there is no
incentive to conserve water-can strain the system and leave the majority with an inadequate
supply. The original tariffs were flat rates based on the communities' ability to pay, as detennined
by a socio-economic study at the beginning of each project. Tariffs were supposed to be revised
periodically with the assistance of SENASA, but in practice juntas that have not asked for
assistance in this area have not been encouraged to raise rates.
11.   Of concern in the intermediate term is that tariffs and fees for connection and
disconnection do not reflect the true cost of operations in most juntas. Cost recovery and financial
management are also serious issues. The juntas have a good record of water bill collection:
receivables represent 5 to 15 percent of annual sales. About 49 percent of the Bank-financed
juntas are one or more months in arrears to SENASA. SENASA estimates the average total
payments the government receives from juntas is G.451 million a year, while the accumulated
total arrears for the three rural water projects is G.262 million.



7
Conclusions
12.   Bank support for the rural water subsector in Paraguay has made a significant difference
to rural families in a large geographic area. When SENASA's work under the first loan showed
that the juntas were highly effective, the Bank financed a series of four increasingly larger projects
that reduced the deficit in rural water supply, thereby attaining health impacts largely as
anticipated. Among the other significant achievements of the RWS projects are iat living conditions
in the rural areas have improved substantially, infant mortality is down, waterbome disease incidence is
lower, and the status and lives of women have improved.
13.   The rural water infrastructure is in place and functioning. Moreover, the institutional
development achieved is impressive: hundreds ofjuntas have been established in rural villages,
they are stable and growing, and their members and directors have been trained to operate
reasonably complex water delivery systems. The villagers maintain their own piped network,
ensure the functioning of the pump(s) and water storage facilities, keep the system operational,
keep books, and hold regular meetings. Almost all juntas have expanded their original operation,
taking in new members and providing service to a broader pool of beneficiaries without additional
Bank support.
Factors of Performance
14.   What made the Paraguay intervention a success?
•   Continuity of staffing. The rural water supply loans were more dependent than many
Bank projects on a series of complex events taking place in hundreds of villages in
more or less the same way. A certain constancy of vision facilitates such an
undertaking. Much of the success achieved is doubtless because the rural water
projects have not changed task manager very often. Continuity of staffing permitted
Bank-client relationships to develop a deeper understanding over a prolonged period.
The lessons of success have been learned, and the Bank has been able to work with
SENASA to see that once problems can be identified, they can be dealt with
systematically.
*   Widespread rural electrification. Near-universal rural electrification permitted the
projects to use extremely reliable electric pumps. In most countries, one of the
greatest problems rural water supply projects face is the maintenance, repair, and
parts supply associated with gasoline and diesel pumps or handpumps.
*   Timely educational and training inputs. Timely and coordinated use of training
facilitated the skills upgrading process in the juntas and the diffusion of potable
water-related health benefits in the villages. Although the effort was large-scale, the
self-evaluation workshop participants highlighted the need for even greater efforts in
this area, a finding that supports OED evaluation results in other countries.
*   The projects built on the country 's social and cultural traditions Paraguay, like several
other Latin American countries, is a nation where working together for the good ofthe
community has a long tradition. Working on committees such as those created by these
projects is apartof rural life.



8
* Local ownership of infrastructure. The juntas owe some of their sustainability and
permanency to the fact that from the beginning they own significant and visible
property. Not only was the service they provided essential and highly prized by the
entire village, but there were places that all could see and where users unhappy with
any aspect of the service could go and complain. The factthat SENASA charges for its
assistance was both culturally astute and, in a way, supportive of a long-standing
government practice of not fostering dependency.
Recommendations
15.   Further attention is indicated in some areas.
* Tariffs need to be set at sustainable levels. Too many juntas do not know the full
cost of the service they provide. The biggest difference between the strongest and
weakestjuntas is income, a function of tariffs. Ultimately it is in interest of their
members to replace expensive infrastructure (such as water towers) before the end of
its useful life and not after.
* Weak juntas need additional administrative help over the short term. A junta with a
computer costs less to run in the long term (boxes full of paper and file cards are
tedious to handle, and important documents get misplaced). Computers also can
make projections and otherwise provide information of importance to system
managers and directors. The latter often have little time to spend in the juntas
because they are volunteers.
* Water meters should be covered in the loans for new juntas, and existing juntas that
are up to date with their payments should have access to credit sufficient for
universal metering of household use. Every junta visited stressed the importance of
starting out with meters. Even though the per capita costs appear to be very high if
meters are included, those costs could be recovered very quickly because of the
income the meters generate. Once system users get used to not paying the real cost
for the quantity of water they use, it becomes extremely difficult for directors to
make needed changes. The waste and misuse of water will only stop when all water
is measured and paid for. But if water cannot be measured and charged for, it is too
difficult for the juntas to raise the money to buy meters.
*   SENASA should be provided with technical assistance in knowledge management. A
persistent weakness in SENASA is its inability to get information to those who need
it. Monitoring is taking place. The juntas produce monthly updates on work in
progress, but no unit in SENASA collects and systematizes that data. As a result,
most staff members keep their own files, and nobody knows who is keeping which
file. This inevitably leads to coordination problems.
*   SENASA 's evaluation capacity needs to be increased. The self-evaluation workshop
conducted for this study was the first such event in almost 20 years of
implementation. Staff have learned how to run such workshops now, and they should



9
be encouraged to hold more of them. Self-evaluation activities need to go beyond
required Bank reports, and they need to involve field staff and beneficiaries.






11
1.  Study Objectives, Methodology, and Context
1.1   In the late 1970s, before the World Bank began financing rural water and sanitation
projects, about 1 percent of Paraguay's widely dispersed rural population' had access to safe water
from a piped supply system. After nearly 20 years of implementation (under three loans), about 20
percent receive service. The implementing agency, National Service for Environmental Sanitation
(SENASA), created in more than 750 villages institutions to manage the day-to-day provision of
safe water. This study examines the challenges these local water committees faced, identifies the
difficulties SENASA has overcome, catalogues project impacts, and reviews the nature of the task
ahead. The water committees, known as juntas de saneamiento (literally, sanitary boards) in
Spanish, are referred to hereafter as juntas.
Objectives and Scope of the Impact Evaluation
1.2    This impact evaluation reviews implementation since the beginning of the Bank's
involvement but gives special attention to recent experiences and important current issues
identified by the central government, local authorities, junta directors, and users. The objective of
the evaluation is to assess the impacts of the Bank's assistance program on the performance of
Paraguay's rural water sector. Especially important in this assessment are the various aspects of
community management of water and sanitation systems, as well as broader considerations of
policy and organization. The study also evaluates the effectiveness of the projects in improving
health and reducing poverty.
Basic Loan Data (actual)
Loan Number  Project Name          Amount        Board Approval  Completion
(US$ milion)  Date           Date
1502-PA       Rural Water Supply   6.0           12/13n7        6/30/83
2014-PA       Rural Water Supply II   11.8       6/16/81         3/20/90
3519-PA       Rural Water Supply Im   23.0       9/10/92         6/30/98'
4222-PA       Rurl Water Supply IV   40.0        8/28/97         12/31/03a
a Estimded
1.3    The evaluation covers the provision of rural water (mostly through household
connections) and extensive waterborne sanitation and latrine promotion. It evaluates the two
completed projects on their achievement of physical objectives, sustainability, institutional
development impact, Bank-client partnership, and stakeholder involvement. It also emphasizes
issues facing the ongoing project and the project in preparation. The rationale for this approach is
to highlight the rural water program's impact by establishing what the initial conditions in the
sector were, what problems have been resolved, what issues are being tackled now, what
objectives are within reach, and how effective the Bank has been in helping the client accomplish
agreed-upon objectives.
1. More than two million people, about 70 percent of the total population, lived in communities of fewer than 4,000
inhabitants.



12
Methodology
1.4    A study team visited Paraguay in May and June 1997 to conduct on-site inspections in 17
villages of four provinces. The team selected villages for broad regional coverage; to include
weak, average, and strong juntas; and to cover the entire implementation period (from 1978 to the
present) so that the effect of longevity could be detected. In each village, the team met with junta
directors, employees, and project beneficiaries. In most villages representatives of the local
municipality were also consulted. The team also visited facilities constructed with the proceeds of
the loan, including water tanks, chlorinating facilities, administrative offices, and well heads.
1.5   The study used a participatory approach based on an evaluation workshop, key informant
interviews, field visits, systematic data collection (surveys of randomly selected key
stakeholders), and beneficiary interviews. The site visits, questionnaire results, and data collected
by other government ministries were triangulated, that is, taken together, and used to evaluate the
impacts of the projects on the beneficiaries and stakeholders. Central government and municipal
officials, system operators, consultants, and other donors and bilaterals involved in Paraguay's
rural water sector were interviewed. SENASA functioned as a co-inquirer within the evaluative
process, and senior staff had an input on certain aspects of the research design.
1.6    On May 30, 1997, OED organized a workshop for key stakeholders and individuals who
had participated in the implementation of the project. Senior staff from SENASA participated in
the development of the workshop agenda/question plan and helped with logistics. The
participatory evaluation session included representatives from participating municipalities, juntas,
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and key members of each SENASA department. Their
opinions and evaluative conclusions were published in a standalone volume.2 This report broadly
reflects those opinions and conclusions and cites them where appropriate.
Paraguay: Poverty and the Rural Areas
1.7   Paraguay is rapidly emerging from 35 years of dictatorship. While the legacy of close to
four decades of dictatorial rule is still visible, the country has made important strides in its quest
to become a modem, democratic state. Paraguay is landlocked, and local businesses tend to deal in
imported consumer goods or produce light manufactured goods that are not costly to export.
Services tend to dominate the urban economy. The agricultural sector is of fundamental
importance to the national economy and its future growth. The sector produces more than one
quarter of Paraguay's GDP, employs about half the workforce, and generates 90 percent of
registered exports. More than half of industry's value-added comes from agro-industry, and
almost half the population lives in rural areas. The Paraguay Agricultural Sector Review (August
1995) notes that the future well-being of the agricultual sector is crucial to the economy as a
whole and to the welfare of a major part of the population.
1.8   Extreme poverty is lower in Paraguay than in many countries with higher per capita
incomes because income distribution is more equitable than average for Latin America. (The GDP
per capita in Paraguay is US$3,200; in neighboring Brazil it is US$6,100, Colombia US$5,300
[1995 estimates]). Living standards are also higher tian in many neighboring countries because
2. Evaluacion del Programa de Agua Rual y Saneamiento en Parguay: Primer Taler Participativo de los
Involucrados, Asunci6n World Bank, SENASA, UNDP; May1997.



13
Paraguay is not earthquake-prone, and investments in housing, to cite but one example, only need
to be made once. The northeastern states, which hold most of the country's indigenous population,
and some of the areas surrounding Asunci6n, which have been settled by rural migrants, have the
highest poverty levels. The constitution assigns the government responsibility for the provision of
social services to lower income groups, and the democratically elected governments have steadily
increased social spending. From 1989 to 1994, for example, the government increased public
health expenditures from 1.0 to 2.5 percent of GDP.
1.9    The projects serve 15 rural states3 (listed in Table 4.1), which average about 6 inhabitants
per square kilometer. In the most densely settled areas served by the projects, population density
ranges approximately from 50 to 150 inhabitants per square kilometer. The main activities are
agriculture (about 75 percent of the population), handicrafts, and small industries.
1.10   For the period 1992-1995 economic growth was less than 3 percent, about the same as the
rate of population growth. Stagnating and in some places declining per capita income threatens
the economic well-being attained thus far. Already it is resulting in reduced access to social
services for the poor even while gross expenditures for social services are rising.
Municipalities: Historically Weak but Gaining Importance
1.11 The decentralization of govermment services began in 1989 with the transfer of political
power to municipal governments. Although before then municipal governments and councils had
been elected, mayors had been appointed by the central government. Since 1991, mayors have
become elected officials. Indeed, one reason SENASA opted to promote water systems through
juntas rather than through the municipalities is that juntas were legally more powerful in critical
areas-they were permitted to borrow money, for example-and economicaly better able to cope
with the demands of the task. To some degree this situation is changing, and municipalities are
becoming more important. The 1992 constitution (Article 168) broadens municipal
responsibilities to include urban planning, environment, markets, tourism, health, police, traffic
management, and the supervision of public transportation. To enable municipalities to fulfiUl their
new role, Article 169 transfers the property tax previously collected by the central government to
the municipalities. Municipalities are allowed to retain 70 percent of revenues, which altogether
amounts to less than 5 percent of the central government budget. Still, the assignment of
responsibilities across the three levels of government has not yet been specified, leading to a lack
of accountability, duplication of some functions, and absence of others. Moreover, municipalities
and departments lack the ability to manage their new responsibilities, and they have shown no
tendency to become more involved in the provision of water than they have been in the past.
3. Paraguay has 17 states, locally known as departments.



14
2.  The Project
2.1    Paraguay was the site of first standalone rural water project (Rural Water Supply, Loan
1502, US$6.0 million) financed by the World Bank. Since the Bank began lending for Paraguay's
rural water sector in FY78, it has approved US$80.8 million for four rural water projects (Figure
2.1). The fourth loan was approved on August 28, 1997, and a fifth project is under preliminary
consideration.4 These projects represent 15 percent of the Bank's freestanding projects worldwide
(4 out of 26) and 8 percent of the portfolio in dollar terms.
2.2    The 1978 loan was for community-based water systems. The follow-on loans require
small towns and villages of 400 to 4,000 inhabitants to manage their own water and sanitation
systems, each loan extending coverage to new geographic regions. Only two of the four projects
have been completed (Loans 1502-PA and 2014-PA). The third (Loan 3519-PA) is nearing
completion.
Figure 2.1: Total Project Cost and Loan Allocations for the
Rural Water Supply Program
1oo
90 I                                                 85
80I
70-
50
B40       36.3                        36.3
30                                 2
20-
0
RWS I        RWS 11        RWS III       RWS IV
a Loan Amount   MTotal Project Cost
Community-based and Utility-based Approaches in the Water Sector
2.3    Requiring each participating village to operate and maintain a standalone water system
was innovative and experimental-in fact, the Bank has only recently5 embraced participatory
approaches as the preferred (most sustainable) way to solve the water problems of rural areas. In
4. Water and sanitation loans represent about 15 percent of all Bank lending to Paraguay.
5. Operational Policy (OP) 4.07 (July 1993). Some of the key issues are discussed in a 1993 Bankpublication: Deepa
Narayan, Parficipatory Evaluation: toolsfor managing change in water and sanitaton. World Bank Technical Paper
207, ISSN 0253-7494, 1993.



15
the interim, Bank-financed projects elsewhere frequently took a more top-down approach to the
needs of remote communities.
2.4    Historically the Bank has supported both utility-based and community-based water
systems, with the former clearly predominating in dollar terms. Utility-based systems, as the name
implies, are planned and operated by big water utilities (privately or publicly owned) that serve
large populations. Utility-based water projects6 everywhere have many similarities. However,
utilities tend to function better in areas of high population concentration. In rural areas,'
community-based systems are invariably characterized by active participation in system
administration and direct local responsibility for all or certain aspects of operation and
maintenance. Community water supply and sanitation projects (CWSS) normaly include (a)
community involvement in project planning and management of rural water supplies; (b)
government promotion rather than provision of services; (c) demand-driven investment for basic
water and sanitation services based on communities paying part of the capital cost and all normal
operations, maintenance, and repair costs; (d) private sector provision of goods and services (to
the extent possible); (e) maximization of health benefits by integrating water, sanitation, and
hygiene education interventions; and sometimes (f) a special focus on women as users, planners,
operators, and managers of water schemes.
2.5    The Bank-financed RWS projects in Paraguay typically have the following attributes and
relationships:
*   communities (juntas) own the well, pumping facility, and distribution infrastructure;
*   communities manage the rural water supply systems;
*  juntas pay part of the capital cost and normal operations, maintenance, and repair
costs;
*   SENASA promotes junta creation and provides technical support-but it steers
juntas to private sector providers when repairs are needed (SENASA charges a fee
when it provides services itself to encourage demand); and
*   SENASA attempts to maximize health benefits by integrating water, sanitation, and
hygiene education interventions with junta-promoting activities.
Sector Context
2.6    Paraguay has extensive surface and groundwater resources, and because it is in the basin
of the Parana and Paraguay rivers, it has tremendous hydroelectric potential. The Itaipu and
Yacyreta hydroelectric projects, for example, have pennitted installation of a widespread national
grid of electricity supply throughout southern and central Paraguay. As a result, the majority of
rnual communities have access to a reliable source of electricity, and the Bank-financed projects
have been able to provide wells with extremely reliable electrical pumps.
6. For example, utilities charge published rates and follow procedures and regulations defined by the central and local
govemments.
7. CWSS systems are also becoming common inperi-urban areas.



16
2.7    Paraguay's first water supply system began operation in 1959 to serve part of Asunci6n.
Until 1963 it was the only such system. Rural activities were rare. Only 10 of the country's 161
towns (excluding Asunci6n) had developed water supply systems by 1976, and even in these
cases water was untreated and below acceptable standards. Many communities had to obtain water
for domestic consumption from shallow (often seasonal) wells. River and stream water was
widely used. Fortunately, good-quality groundwater is available at moderate depths (typically 80
to 150 meters) in sealed aquifers. Boreholes can be easily drilled in two to five days.
2.8   In villages where water sources were distant enough to make self-supply impractical,
water-sometimes from questionable sources-was distributed by water carriers who sold 200-
liter barrels at prices of up to US$1.60 (US$8 per cubic meter). Such high water prices constrained
consumption and reduced water use for personal hygiene and laundry to a minimum. Sanitation
provisions also tended to be minimal. Excreta disposal was usually by unhygienic traditional
latrines.
2.9    Until the mid-1980s, unsafe water supplies and poor sanitation made health status in
Paraguay worse than in many other countries with similar GNP. The Ministry of Public Health
reports that diarrheal diseases have been consistently among the five major causes of
hospitalization. A 1992 Public Expenditure Review by the Bank found that waterbome diseases
are the major cause of infant mortality. Infant mortality was as high as 85 per 1,000 live births in
some communities, although national averages were much lower.8 Diarrheal and enteric diseases
were the second most common cause of mortality for all ages. Among the main causes for the
high deficit in rural services were weak institutional capacity, lack of rural subsector policies, and
a low level of public investment.
Governmental Strategy
2.10   The water sector in Paraguay received unprecedented attention in the 1980s, partly
because of the (United Nations) Intemational Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade but
also because of government concem with health statistics. Early in the decade, Paraguay
subscribed to Intemational Water Decade Goals, setting ambitious objectives for expanding water
and sanitation services in urban and rural areas, strengthening sector institutions, and
implementing cost recovery policies. These objectives were linked to broader goals of improving
socio-economic conditions for settlers and native families suffering from lack of water and
sanitation in the fast-developing agricultural frontier. Govemment efforts to achieve these
objectives during the 1980s raised water supply and sanitation from 5 percent coverage to about
20 percent nationally, still low by South American standards. Nevertheless, while urban coverage
improved in response to government determination, rural service lagged many years behind. The
numbers hide the true differences: rural coverage is also about 20 percent (as of January 1998),
but the pattem of service availability leads to significant inequalities. In unserved rural areas there
may be no safe water for many miles, while in urban areas water is usually available from a
neighbor or a nearby standpipe.
2.11   The community-centered strategy for the provision of rural water evolved very little from
RWS I through RWS III. Although the development of local water committees was a slow process
8. Cuntly 23.2 deaths per 1,000 live biths (1996 estimate). Source: The World Factbook 1996. March 12, 1997. U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency. November 1997. <htp:/Avwwo.dci.gov/cia/publications/nsolo/factbooklpa.htm>.



17
that required substantial technical and administatve follow-up, the juntas usually functioned as
intended, and they were very popular with the beneficiaries. Service level choices were largely left
to the individual beneficiaries after they were connected. For example, decisions about whether to
leave the water out in the courtyard or to bring it inside into kitchen sinks and bathroom facilities
were left up to each family, who also had to pay for such facilities.
2.12   The areas where the juntas work are more like small towns than sparsely populated rural
zones. RWS I plans called for supplying house connections only in areas with more than five
houses per 100 meters of street length. In practice, this approach was not strictly followed, each
successive project served a larger number of beneficiaries and constructed fewer standpipes than
its predecessor. With RWS IV (not yet in implementation), project planners have envisaged pilot
endeavors with new strategies to increase coverage and reduce costs. Among the innovations
planned are new extraction technologies, smaller networks built with lower-cost materials, and a
focus on the extremely poor indigenous communities of the Chaco region.
Institutional and Legal Framework for Water Supply in Paraguay
2.13   SENASA was created in 1972 as a unit of the Ministry of Health to develop water supply
and sanitation systems in communities of up to 4,000 inhabitants. SENASA is aided in its work at
the local level byjuntas de saneamiento, legal entities responsible for promoting adequate health
practices in their communities. The Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare confers legal
status on the juntas.9 Their five- to nine-member boards of directors are elected by public vote and
consist of a chairman, vice chairman, secretary, treasurer, and one to five other voting members.
2.14   Overall responsibility for water supply and sanitation sector planning rests with the
Technical Planning Secretariat of the Presidency. All investment plans must be approved by the
National Council for Economic Coordination before they become eligible for government
financial support. Responsibility for preparing sector plans, however, is left to the initiative of the
main sector institutions, the Corporation for Sanitary Works (CORPOSANA, which works in
urban centers) and SENASA (for rural towns and villages).10 A high-level Coordinating
Committee, in which all involved agencies participate, coordinates sector activities and prepares
long-term plans.
2.15   Since a 1991 restructuring, SENASA has had a separate Directorate of Water and
Sanitation. SENASA also has two other directorates, one for environmental health and the other
for administration. All activities involving ongoing field work (managing the field staff, handling
all phases of support to the juntas, and so forth) are the responsibility of an Operations
Department. This department has a unit that coordinate all training activities and oversees the
social promotion and health education programs related to water and sanitation. Another division,
Financial Management of Juntas, provides technical support to the juntas in preparing financial
statements, setting contributions and tariffs, billing and collection, and managing repair funds. At
the field level, SENASA has a system of supervisors in the 15 regions into which the Ministry of
Health's operations are divided. Each supervisor has between 6 and 14 inspectors and assistants,
depending on the area and population of the region.
9. 1heir authority is derived from LawNo. 369n2, which established SENASA, and DecreeNo. 8910M 4, which
approved regulations governing their formation and responsibilities.
10. A third organization under the Ministry of Defense is responsible for sector activities in the Chaco region.



18
Self-help Committees
2.16 Rural Paraguayans share a tradition of working together that goes back centuries. Many
nural communities still practice an Indian tradition known as the minga-a day of shared work for
the benefit of the community-which can be called by municipal authorities. This was
particularly important during the dictatorship, when rural infrastructure suffered from
underinvestment: government did not see the solving of rural problems as its role. As a result,
rural people tended not to wait for outsiders to come in and solve their problems. Paved roads are
scarce and less than 40 percent of households have electricity, for example. As a result,
committees for local betterment (such as road introduction or school committees) have been very
active for decades-forming a committee to solve a local problem is an understood and accepted
modality in rural areas.
2.17 Juntas de saneamiento are nonprofit committees legally constituted to manage water and
sanitation matters within a defined geographic area (usualy a single village). They are entitled to
own property, contract debts, and operate services. In function they are similar to local
cooperatives, which are common throughout Latin America. Generaly the juntas take
responsibility for all aspects of ihe community water system: they maintain a sanitary well site,
keep pumps and the piped network in working order, clean and maintain water towers and reserve
tanks, and handle accounting and monthly biling. In all the above, they work under SENASA's
supervision and with its assistance.
2.18   After indicating to SENASA their desire to have a potable water system, villagers form a
junta. The first directors are usuaUy civic leaders and prominent citizens. The operation of the
committees follows a standard pattern set by SENASA: a document" SENASA gives them
describes the organization and the obligations of each committee and defines the relationship
between the committees and SENASA. Committees are first organized provisionaUy. Once they
obtain their legal charters, new boards are elected. Once a committee has a legal existence, it
discusses with SENASA staff the details of the system the community would like, and it raises its
contribution to the initial system cost, partly in cash and materials. It also organizes the local
contributions to labor during construction (although this has been limited to gathering materials in
RWS II and III). When construction is complete, the system is formally handed over to the junta,
which then entirely owns the system and buildings. Until the formal handover, no payments are
due. There is also a period of grace for the first six months of system operation.
Project Objectives and Components
2.19   The fundamental objective of the first three rural water projects in Paraguay was to
mitigate the precarious living and health conditions of rural communities by providing safe water
supply and sanitation facilities. Most of the beneficiary population in the project communities
received water services through house connections. Although the project has a component to build
public standpipes, very few were built and their impact was not significant.
11. In the Rules and Regulations forthe Sanitary Committees (Reglamento de las luntas de Saneamiento, Decree 8910, Sept 10,
1974).



19
Objectives
2.20   The principal project objectives were to:
*  provide chlorinated water to rural communities;
*  provide sanitary units in rural communities and help construct safe latrines;
*  promote better hygiene habits and public health improvements;
* strengthen the managerial and operational capabilities of SENASA;
* encourage community participation in the project, raise a community contribution to
initial investment, and foster local commitment to maintenance; and
* ensure partial recovery of the investment.
Components
2.21   Each of the three projects had the following components (Annex A summarizes
individual loan objectives and the degree to which they were achieved):
* Construction of new water supply systems or extension of existing ones in rural
communities. (A typical water system would include a drilled well 100 to 200 meters
deep; pumping equipment and a chlorination system; a 1O to 100 cubic meter storage
tank; and a distribution network with house connections serving about 80 percent of
the population and standpipes to serve the remaining population.)
*   Installation of sanitary units.
*   Provision of equipment, tools, and technical assistance for the construction of
latrines, septic tanks, and drainage fields.
*   Procurement of equipment and tools for regional laboratories, well drilling
operations, and community repair shops.
*   Procurement of trucks for SENASA's construction supervision.
*   Provision of educational and promotional programs in basic public health in the
participating communities.
2.22   Strengthening SENASA's capacity for project preparation and its capability for
supervision was essential to the implementation of the rural water supply projects. A technical
assistance program in each loan provided long-term strengthening of SENASA's abilities.
Program activities included the provision of consultants for project management; technical
support for SENASA's headquarters staff (inter alia in well construction, operation and
maintenance of systems in the communities, and accounting); training for SENASA field
personnel, sanitary inspectors, and plumbers in the communities.






21
3.  Water and Sanitation Service Provided, and Resulting
Health Benefits
3.1    SENASA, under the Bank-financed projects, helped establish 275 community-based
water systems over about 20 years. As of June 1997, these systems were benefiting more than
400,000 rural Paraguayans (Table 3.1). The projects worked with villages in the most rapidly
developing areas of the country, many of them quite near SENASA's Directorate of Water and
Sanitation in San Lorenzo. This proximity facilitated technical support in the early years, when
small modifications in program approach were needed.
Table 3.1: Physical Achievements of the Rural Water Programs
Loan          Number of Systems      Number of Villages Served  Beneficiary Population
RWS I               47                       47                      187,490
RWS II              51                       51                      94,765
RWSIII              177                      194                     119,060
Total              275                       292                     401,315
Loan        Household Connections       Public Standpipes       Non-Perforated Wells
RWS I             37,498                     47                        2
RWS II            18,953                     37                        3
RWS Im            23,812                     10                        0
Total             80,263                     94                        5
3.2    At appraisal RWS I, II, and III were expected to supply water services through house
connections in areas with more than five houses per 100 meters of street length. Less densely
populated areas would have to settle for shared public access (standpipes). SENASA hoped to
provide a larger number of standpipes than it actually did-only 94 public standpipes were
constructed under the three loans. None were seen in the communities visited during this
evaluation.
3.3    About 10 to 15 percent of the population in the villages served has not been able to afford
a connection to a junta system, and there are not enough standpipes to serve those families who
could not afford system water, so they must either use traditional sources or buy water from
neighbors who have system connections. Juntas have been hesitant to build standpipes because of
the significant costs of operating and maintaining them. Moreover, collecting a fee is expensive
and fraught with conflict, the more so because the juntas cannot exclude non-payers.
3.4    Greater attention to the problems of the poorest families is planned. The fourth RWS
project will build 350 new systems in the current pattern, expand 80 existing systems, and
construct 50 systems for highly dispersed indigenous communities in the Chaco region, using a
range of technologies and approaches tailored to local conditions. Successful achievement of
RWS IV's objectives will increase rural coverage from 20 percent to about 35 percent by the end
of the project.



22
Water Use
3.5    During 1996-97, SENASA's Department of Operations studied conditions in 20 villages
served by RWS I and II and compared results with 130 villages that were to be served by RWS IV
(but which had no functioning junta, or were only partially served by a junta system [see also
Table 5.1]). Data were obtained by questionnaire, so consumption levels from informants not
connected to water systems are self-reported. The study clearly demonstrated the high cost of
purchasing water outside the network (Figure 3.1). It also showed that people connected to
networks used the most water, while those who had to carry it from distant sources used the least
(Figure 3.2). People who had a well nearby used more water (and incurred no cash cost) than those
who purchased water.
Figure 3.1: Comparison of Water Costs
1600            1380
1400
>. 1200
1000
800
*  600
e  400          | W g llN |N314
200
0
Purchased from              Supplied by
Water Carts or               Juntas
Other Sellers
Figure 3.2: Comparison of Water Consumption
500
450                                                 395
400
_ 350
300                               258
= 250
E 200 I        135
1 150 I
-j 50
0
Without System      Purchased from    Supplied by Juntas
(Hand Carnied)     Water Carts or
Other Sellers



23
Sanitation Infrastructure
3.6    During the May 1997 workshop with SENASA staff and other stakeholder groups, there
was widespread agreement that the demands of constructing and helping the local committees to
maintain the potable water systems have always received the bulk of project resources and staff
time. Participants found this situation understandable but lamentable, considering how important
sanitary arrangements are to achieving the major project objectives. Field staff enjoy working on
tasks that are of high priority to the juntas and respond to strongly felt needs. Many rural villages
have ample land, large plots, and little felt need for sanitation: families living in zones without
water systems had extremely low rates of self-reported diarrhea and vomiting. Nevertheless,
212,656 sanitary facilities (22 percent modem bathrooms, 78 percent latrines) were built in areas
that SENASA supervises, although most of these were due to other donor-induced investment,
rather than direct activities of RWS I-IV.12 The study used both official statistics and self-reported
health data to evaluate project impacts on the health of the beneficiary villages.
Impact of Water and Sanitation Infrastructure
3.6    There are no statistics on the incidence of cholera in the project area. Cholera broke out in
Peru in 1991. Between 1991 and 1992 Latin America had approximately 700,000 cases of cholera,
most of them in South America. Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Bolivia, and Brazil were all seriously
affected (to a much lesser degree, so were Mexico, Guatemala, and El Salvador). Only the most
careful epidemiological study can attribute responsibility for halting the spread of a contagious
disease. Nevertheless, neglecting to mention that a cholera epidemic was sweeping several
neighboring countries while not troubling the project area (where sanitation was improved, a
hygiene education campaign was under way, and chlorinated water was in widespread use) might
overlook one of the project's most important impacts.
3.7    Conditions in Paraguay's Eighth Sanitary District were propitious for the study of project
health impacts. The San Juan Hospital, which served the entire district of 10 large vilages,
covered 5 villages that had piped water systems operated by juntas, and 5 that had no systems and
relied on traditional sources. Climate, topography, and water access were similar, and no village
was excluded.
3.8    The difference between the two sets of villages was dramatic. From 1987 through 1996,
89 children under the age of five died from diarrhea in the communities without potable water
(Table 3.2). During the same period, only 12 children died in communities with potable water.
Ten of those deaths occurred in the first five years for which data were available (1987-91), a
period when system construction was not fully complete and household connections were stil
being made. From 1992 through 1994, not a single child died of diarrhea in the villages that
received a Bank-financed system. In the villages with traditional water sources, 6,982 children
were hospitalized for diarrhea during the 10-year period of the water project (Table 3.3). In the
12. SENASA records do not disaggregate by Bank loan, so only cumulative figures by region are available. Other
donors and nongovernmental organizations have promoted the construction of latrines in the project area, so it is not
possible to exclude these contributions from the total figure. In general, dry wells are used and no treatment is available
for sewage.



24
villages with water systems, the number of children hospitalized for such symptoms was much
lower- 1,758. In 1996 alone, 550 children under the age of five from communities without the
new water systems were treated for diarrhea at San Juan Hospital-more than five times the
number (94) treated from villages with juntas.
Table 3.2: Mortality Due to Diarrhea, Children Under Five Years of Age in the Eighth
Sanitary Region, 1987-1996
District              1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Communities without Juntas and Potable Water
San Juan Bautista     2       2       1       2       1       0       1       2       0       0
SanIgnacio            7       3       6       1       2       1       3       7       1       5
Santa Rosa            3       1       2       2       1       0       6       4       3       3
Ayolas                0       2       2       1       1       1       0       3       0        1
Yabebyry              3       2       1       1       0       0       0       0       0        0
Total                  15       10      12      7       5       2       10      16      4       9
Communities with Juntas and Potable Water
Santiago              1       0       0       1       0       0       0       0       0       0
Santa Maria           1       2       1       0       1       0       0       0       1       0
Villa Florida         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
San Miguel            0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
San Patricio          0       2       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       1
Total                   2       4       2       1       1       0       0       0       1        1
Table 3.3: Incidence of Diarrhea, Children Under Five Years of Age in the Eighth Sanitary
Region, 1987-1996
District              1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
i        .....  ............... _ __ . ......... .........................................................     ......         .. . ...................................   ...............
Communities without Juntas and Potable Water
SanJuanBautista     119     114    182      133    90       69      68      121    31       69
SanIgnacio          170     130    225      118    72       227    236      350    243      213
SantaRosa           138     133    205      223     196    193      188     165     102      78
Ayolas              280    254      147    277      156     114     117    266      127      161
Yabebyry            62      94      40      46      42       38      39      74      18      29
Total                 769     725     799     797    556    641       648     976     521     550
Communities with Juntas and Potable Water
Santiago            53      44      43      11      21      45      46      82      27      29
SantaMaria          69      80      180    54       31      47      48      54      17      11
Villa Florida       71      32      32      36      18      13      13      29      9        16
SanMiguel           8       23      38      35      29      24      24      39      18      20
SanPatricio         19      18      45      33      29      22      22      24      9       18
Total                 220     197    338      169     128    151      153     228     80      94
3.11    Health improvements in rural areas usually require more than the introduction of potable
water. A recent OED evaluation in Africa, for example, showed that the introduction of
handpumps did not lead to health improvements because the parallel effort in health education
and sanitation was too feeble and not sustained long enough.'3 The impacts of water systems
usually are maximized by parallel education programs; SENASA's educational efforts are
described in para. 4.20.
13. See OED Precis 154 "Mali Rural Water."



25
Figure 3.3: Incidence of         Figure 3.4: Incidence of
Diarrhea within the Past        Vomiting within the Past
15 Days                          15 Days
With                            With
Potable                         Potable
With     out_W          ate      Without A               Water
Potable                  5%      Potable                  40%
Water                   n=72     Water                   n=27
95%                              96%
n=1,504                           n=681
3.12   In 1996-97, SENASA sent a team of researchers to rural villages to ask about recent
health problems (Figures 3.3 and 3.4) in more than 20,000 households.'4 The survey team sought
information only about the two-week period immediately preceding the day of the interview
because self-reported health data become increasingly unreliable over longer periods of recall. The
families without potable water piped to the home had an incidence of diarrhea three times higher
than families with potable water. They were also 3.5 times more likely to have experienced a
sickness that provoked vomiting.
3.13   The same pattern held true when informants were asked about recent mortality due to
waterbome disease symptoms. The communities surveyed had 12 incidences of death caused by
diarrhea and concomitant dehydration in families that did not have potable water (0.02 percent).
Households that received piped water from a junta system had no instances.
Operational Effectiveness of the Junta Water Systems
3.14   SENASA charges for the technical support it gives to more than 300 communities when
system breakdowns are beyond a village's repair capabilities. On average, communities
experience a major pump problem requiring the assistance of a SENASA technician (typically, for
the removal of the pump from the bottom of the well) once a year. Each junta is required to have a
spare pump, and some juntas have informal agreements to share an additional pump as a double
backup. Because of the spare units, the longest that users have gone without water is two days-
under optimal conditions replacement can be done in one day. In interviews with system users,
informants consistently refused to class service interruptions as a significant problem. Occasional
extreme swings in voltage burn out small sections of the control panel, but these are far easier to
repair, and many juntas have invested in voltage regulators to reduce the scale of the problem. A
third common problem is caused by pipe breakage along the system. System operators can usually
fix these problem within two hours.
14. 17,644 individuals in households with access to water systems, 101,787 without.



26
Quality Monitoring
3.15   SENASA field staff monitor the quality of water randomly in more than 300 systems.
They measure chlorine content, residual chlorine, and acidity (pH) and check for the presence of
E. coli and other bacteria. No program or timetable governs these quality checks, however, and
they tend to happen when juntas call in SENASA staff for other purposes. The staff in charge of
this process admit to finding more than the occasional instance of systems that have run out of
chlorine because the officials in charge had not yet purchased additional supplies. Nonetheless,
system integrity and water quality from the source is such that negative health impacts have not
been reported to SENASA as a result of these lapses. The passing of the cholera scare
undoubtedly decreased the priority given to this task.



27
4.  Community and Institutional Development Achievements
The Growth of Committees for Water and Sanitation
4.1    Since the first RWS project, SENASA, in association with local municipalities, has
helped establish juntas throughout the most populated areas of Paraguay. As of May 1997, 424
juntas were legally constituted (Table 4.1), 291 of these have operational water systems. The
remainder are either still in the system design phase or under construction.
Table 4.1: Juntas Legally Established Since 1978
State           Water           Water       Total Number of
Systems Currently  Systems Not Yet  Juntas Established
Functioning     Operational     1978-97
Concepcion        9               1              10
SanPedro          25             12              37
Cordillera        36             24              60
Guaira            13              7              20
Caaguazu          23              5              28
Caazapa           9               10             19
Itapua            33             33              66
Misiones          7               8              15
Paraguari         18              9              27
Alto Parana       28              8              36
Central           59              5              64
Neembucu          14              0              14
Amambay           2               1               3
Canindeyu         10              4              14
Pte. Hayes        5               6              11
Total            291             133             424
Note: Includes commumities that formed juntas without Bank-financed credit.
4.2    Working in widely scattered rural villages, SENASA has helped create hundreds of viable
local organizations. Not one junta is moribund; each has proved capable of operating systems that
deliver potable water daily to the participating families in their communities. Not one junta has
ceased to deliver services once the water system became operational. This is an organizational
task of massive proportions and a significant community development achievement, especially
when compared with the experience of the cooperative movement in Latin America, which
received far greater donor support. To their host communities the juntas are both a means and an
end: although they are service providers, the creation of community organizations that foster local
leaders and provide employment and growth opportunities is also important. On the technical
side, the project introduced appropriate engineering designs and standardization of materials, so
that private sector providers of spare parts and repairs are spreading.
Private Sector Providers
4.3   In some communities juntas face private sector competition. More than 250 private sector
operators (aguaterias) are providing water services in Asunci6n, other urban areas, and even in
some of the villages served by SENASA-supported juntas. The cost of service provided by the
private water companies is often higher (about 40 percent) than SENASA and CORPOSANA,



28
because no government subsidy is applied to system construction. SENASA staff are generally
not inclined to say much that is positive about aguaterias. They note that in many cases
aguaterias offer only 8 to 12 hours of service daily, and monthly service charges are generally
two to three times higher than CORPOSANA's. Government policy on private water providers is
unclear. Privatization is an important priority, yet juntas have been a great success. Because of the
size of their systems, however, and the fact that public agencies prefer to invest scarce resources in
areas that as yet receive no service whatsoever, public officials often see aguaterias as a useful
supplement.
4.4    An aguateria is often created when an entrepreneuring family with access to clean water
offers water services to a group of neighboring families to recoup investment costs and operating
expenses. Private water providers tend to be small, ranging from 50 to 500 connections. To keep
operations simple, they usually charge a fixed monthly price. Each family signs a contract
specifying the daily amount of water to be provided and the cost of that water.
4.5    At their inception in the mid- 1980s, aguaterias tended to be individual urban households
with access to more water than they needed. As the practice spread, entrepreneurs became
interested in entering the business and in constructing more profitable systems. Aguaterias
flourished in and around Asunci6n in areas that, at that time, would not have received service
from SENASA or CORPOSANA in the foreseeable future. Subsequently, aguaterias have
experienced some degree of consolidation, largely due to buyouts and the emergence of a few
strong companies that specialize in investments in the sector. As a result of market saturation and
increased competition among neighboring systems, aguaterias have now expanded to rural areas
in the interior of Paraguay. 15 The immediate future of aguaterias is unclear as investments in
private water providers have been reduced, both because of local economic conditions and
because businesses are waiting for regulatory decisions on laws that will govern their activities.
4.6    Under RWS IV the Bank is exploring various modalities for expanding coverage by
working with private providers. SENASA staff, however, are deeply committed to the junta
process. Further, politicians appreciate the ribbon-cutting opportunities inherent in the promotion
of community-owned and -run committees that own water towers and attractive offices-which
are tumed over to them following formal ceremonies and speeches by the highest political leaders.
While juntas may provide water at a lower cost, and help to develop the village leadership
structure, the relatively high per capita investment costs and the plan to limit subsidies to the most
impoverished areas indicate that private providers will play a larger role in future.
Impact on Women
4.7    The RWS projects have created employment and leadership opportunities in rural villages
where these did not exist before. That is, the juntas offer both paid work and elected offices, and
women can compete with men for these slots. While women tend to be poorly represented among
the elected leaders of the juntas, and only slightly better off in terms of employment, over time
their level of participation has improved (Figure 4.1).
15. Ihe prevalence of aguatenias was first recognized when the govermnent undertook a census in 1992 to clarify their
scope and ownership. A consultant studying aguatenas for the World Bank in April 1997 generously shared some of
his findings with OED.



29
Figure 4.1: Increase in Women's Participation in Juntas
22
20                      19
18
16 I      15_
14 I                             12 13         Positions Occupied by
e 12 I                           -. X         Women (initial)
lo 10  9            8           ??B???>?? ll  3Positions Occupied by
IL    m           , ......     B???? . lWomen (June 1997)
6
4
2                I               .   IO>N>...... 1
o1........l ., 
0                           F
RWS I        RWS II       RWS III
4.8    Table 4.2 shows the number of positions that became available as a direct result of the
establishment ofjuntas, how many of those positions women were actually able to attain at the
time the juntas were created, and how many they occupied as of June 1997. The numbers combine
director positions and employee slots in juntas that were functioning in June 1997. For local board
of director slots, in 1997 women were 6 percent of junta presidents, 8 percent of vice-presidents,
27 percent of secretaries, and 17 percent of treasurers.
Table 4.2: Women's Participation in Juntas
RWS I RWS II RWS El
N.uniber of Villages               45       42       177
Total Number of Positions          315      294      1,239
Number ofjobs held by women (initial)    27  24      150
Number ofjobs held by women (6/97)  46      55       156
4.9    Improved water supply and access to adequate sanitation have positively and directly
affected the quality of life and productivity of rural women that use junta-supplied water in their
homes. Easier access to safe water (and an assured supply) allows women to provide a cleaner
environment in their homes, to wash their children, to wash their own and their children's hands
more often, and to keep food preparation areas clean. Children's education is also greatly
enhanced by good health (and nutrition is improved by adequate hygiene). All the above can also
lead to higher self-esteem and a greater sense of self-worth.
4.10   Women generally have time for other activities or more free time because of the RWS
projects. Because providing water for the family is generally the responsibility of women in
Paraguay, and water sources could be quite far from the houses, women had to walk long
distances carrying water containers (often carrying children at the same time). According to
project documents, women and children reported spending more than three person-hours a day
collecting water in some communities. The time savings accruing to women from reduced
transport of water, especially in poor households, permits greater labor inputs in agricultural
activities during seasonal peaks (planting and harvest times) for which there is strong demand. It



30
also provides valuable opportunities for earning extra income and more time to spend with the
children.
Poverty Impact
4.11   Health improvements caused by increases in the supply of (affordable) potable water tend
to benefit disproportionately families with lower income because higher income families probably
already had access to sufficient water. Still, the poorest of the poor are often unwilling to commit
to making monthly payments for water. SENASA research in some of the project communities
estimated that about 60 percent of the families living in the villages belong to the poverty target
group. Staff estimate that in villages served by juntas, 10 to 20 percent of families choose not to
connect. While a few of these non-users probably already have adequate supplies, the vast
majority believe they cannot afford the service. Because some of the poorer families do not
request household connections, only about 40 percent of those people who benefited from house
connections are estimated to belong to the poverty group. SENASA monitoring in a small sample
of communities shows rising average family income with the passage of time, due to rising rural
incomes and inflation.
Average income of water system users  Guaranies
in 1978 (RWS Ij                  230,000
In 1984 (RWS II)                 270,000
In 1996(RWS m)                   428,281
The population benefited by the provision of latrines also belongs to the poverty group (see
para. 3.6) as the better-off already had facilities.
4.12   The project had income distribution effects, since about half the families without access
to public supplies purchased water from private vendors at prices of up to US$8/m3 before they
were supplied by the project. Under the project, they have access to larger volumes of safe water
at a family expenditure of about 4 percent of the annual poverty threshold income level (see Table
5.1) as opposed to 12 percent of the annual poverty threshold income for limited quantities of
unsafe water.
4.13   The improvement in health status (described in Chapter 3) arising from reduced
waterbome disease morbidity contributes to higher labor productivity. In addition, the project
generated significant employment at both construction and operation stages. (SENASA field staff
estimate that the average monthly salary paid to junta employees was G.300,000.) This
particularly benefits poorer households, whose involvement in the construction and service
sectors of the rural economy traditionally has been great.



31
4.14 An objective of RWS I was to use system construction (which is labor intensive) as an
opportunity to provide paid work to rural families,'6 thereby helping them cover that part of the
cost of the potable water system contributed by the villagers. Later projects abandoned this
because agricultural tasks and other commitments were found to impede the ability of villagers to
dedicate their time to system construction. Now that contractors do the work, systems come into
service much quicker. Contractors still provide some jobs to local residents; they pay more, they
hire fewer locals, but they require daily attendance on the job site.
Environmental Impact
4.15   The environmental impacts of the project are difficult to quantify, but clear improvements
have occurred. Foremost among them would be the capacity development that has taken place
because of Bank-funded institutional strengthening in an important environmental agency.
SENASA, it will be recalled, is the National Service for Environmental Sanitation. The project
components include new water supply systems in rural communities, a range of sanitation
solutions, and hygiene education. The water supply component contributed to reducing
contamination of groundwater by improving and protecting tubewell sites and disseminating
state-of-the-art water seal designs.
4.16   The hygiene education and latrine component had a positive environmental impact by
reducing the health hazard of indiscriminate defecation in open areas and within family
compounds. Although the project exploited surface and groundwater resources, the volumes
removed were very small. The limited risk to water resource integrity is due to a lack of incentives
for conservation (see paras. 5.5-5.6).
4.17   The risk of local contamination of groundwater through concentrated underground
disposal of excreta in latrines was supposed to be addressed by careful siting of latrines relative to
water points and new water supply sites. This study did not determine whether contamination of
groundwater has been completely avoided, but no instances of degradation were reported.
Health and Hygiene Training
4.18   The purpose of the educational and promotional program is to stimulate village
participation in the project and to ensure full realization of the health benefits potentially available
with the introduction of safe water. This training and outreach program, undertaken by SENASA
staff, includes seminars for junta members on basic administration (including basic accounting
and assistance in the formulation of tariff structures) and technical training that imparts skills
critical for the safe and sustainable operation of rural water systems. SENASA also provides
highly specialized training for system operators. An additional focus of the educational campaigns
is to provide seminars and lectures to village housewives and school children on the optimal use
of water, how to maximize health benefits, and basic sanitation practices. SENASA's files show
that staff undertook 952 community outreach training events during the implementation of RWS
I-III. Approximately 160,000 participants attended.
16. In 1977, about 56 percent of Paraguay's rural population earned an annual per capita income of less than US$160.



32
Stretch Objectives for SENASA
4.19   SENASA's work under the first loan showed that juntas could be effective service-
delivering structures. In recognition of the demonstrated potential of community-managed water
systems, Bank support for each of the three follow-on projects that built on the same community-
based system has increased (Figure 4.2).
Figure 4.2: Number of Villages Served          Figure 4.3: Number of Juntas Needing
by the Rural Water Program                 Administrative and Technical Support
450                                             700   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
680
400                               375           600
350
500
300
250                                             400
200          ~~~~190                                              /
5 200 -                                            300                     280
150
200
100 
50    48       49                               100       40
0                                               0 _    .  _
RSW I    RWS II  RWS III  RWS IV            1978   RWS I  RWS II  RWS III  RWS IV
4.20   SENASA's promotion activities at the community level have focused on organizing the
juntas, developing their commitment to participate in the project from initial planning and
financing, fostering their capacity for the subsequent operation and maintenance of the systems,
and encouraging a commitment to cost recovery. Because of the dramatic increase in the number
of subsector organizations (juntas), however, the manner in which SENASA provides follow-up
and the time allotted for the task has had to evolve. For instance, the proposed number of new
juntas will more than double under RWS IV (Figure 4.3), and the new organizations will be
separated from Asunci6n and from each other by far greater distances, especially those groups that
will be in the Chaco. Even with a substantial increase in staff (which is not anticipated) SENASA
would find it impossible to assist each junta in the same manner as before. This may be
problematic. The enviable track record of the juntas-most notably their continued operation as
service deliverers-has been a function of careful follow up and timely visits by field staff.
4.21   To some degree, the vacuum caused by the escalating demands on SENASA staff time is
being filled by new organizations and businesses. As the demands of the most recently established
committees and those still in formation increasingly occupy the full implementation capacity of
SENASA, older juntas that feel they need assistance are increasingly finding the private sector
ready to cope with problems. For example, many juntas have hired accountants because SENASA
staff have little time to help treasurers with bookkeeping problems. Finding a local electrician to
fix electric panel problems, the most common repair needed at the pumping station, is reportedly
less difficult than a few years ago. There is also an Association of Juntas and a Cooperative of



33
Juntas through which juntas can provide themselves and each other with services originally
provided by SENASA. Among the services provided are managerial assistance (such as
management information systems, computer training, standardized receipts and forms, spare
pump rental, and equipment loan and repair). Under RWS IV, SENASA has agreed to promote the
establishment of an Association of Juntas in each Regional Department with the purpose of
providing support and self-help assistance to the juntas.
4.22   Benefits arising from the institutional strengthening of SENASA financed under the three
Bank loans include a faster rate of implementation and greater cost effectiveness. Arguably the
sustainability of the juntas' work, in both existing and new schemes, has been increased through
better design, management, and supervision-all a result of the agency's increased technical
capacity. The next chapter discusses sustainability in more detail.






35
5.   Cost Recovery and Sustainability
Operation and Maintenance/Equipment Replacement
5.1    Very few juntas understand the concept of depreciation well enough to properly budget
for the replacement of their infrastructure. The oldest water tower (by far the most expensive part
of each community's water system) visited during the study was about 18 years old. The concrete
and underlying steel structure were severely decayed, the tank had multiple leaks, and by the best
estimate of SENASA technicians, the structure might last two to three more years before it would
have to be demolished and replaced. Juntas that have not planned for such an expense will need to
take in many new users at an elevated connection cost or ask members for a special levy in order
to build a new storage tank. Neither ofthese courses of action will be realistic options in many
cases.
5.2    Fundamentally, the problem is that juntas rarely set tariffs and fees for connection and
disconnection at levels that reflect the true cost of operations. Ideally, the juntas should set tariffs
to cover operation and maintenance, debt service, and depreciation. The original tariff levels were
based on the communities' ability to pay, as determined by socio-economic studies prepared by
SENASA. As operating costs changed, tariffs were supposed to be revised periodically with the
assistance of SENASA, but in practice juntas that have not asked for such assistance have not
been encouraged to raise rates.
5.3    Meetings with junta directors during field visits revealed that, except for a few
entrepreneurial juntas, most hesitate to raise tariffs. In the communities visited during the
evaluation, the charge for connecting to the junta system ranged from G.120,000 to G.350,000 for
essentially the same service. Whenever they do see the need to raise    '7tes.7 juntas are required to
obtain SENASA's approval for the increase. Monthly flat rate tariffs in the villages visited ranged
from G.4,000 to G.9,000. Junta directors live in the same village as the users. They have to face
the community every time they walk down the street. They know which of their neighbors is ill,
out of work, or a widow. Thus, when a junta's directors neither want to strain the ability to pay of
the poorest users nor to antagonize their friends and neighbors, the financial viability of the junta
is compromised. Further aggravating this situation is many junta directors' lack of understanding
that operating revenues must cover both debt service and equipment replacement. Not applying
for rate increases and setting the rates too low have very clear consequences. When income is too
low to cover depreciation (and often too low to cover both debt service and maintenance and
operating expenses), juntas experience increased problems with service delivery. Sometimes they
are unable to deliver water consistently to high points on their networks or to maintain
uninterrupted 24-hour service.
5.4    Exceptionally entrepreneurial juntas have taken the tack that a strong local organization,
capable of delivering a first-class service, is in the community's best interest. Such juntas have
raised rates early and often. As a result, a more advanced junta may have a large building, modem
17. It was not possible to quantify rate changes; SENASA files only keep a record the most recent change. Staff
believe, however, that all juntas from RWS I and II have raised their tariffs at least once. SENASA places limits on rate
increases because construction costs were subsidized so that the poor would not be charged more than their ability to
pay.



36
office furniture, adequate employees, computerized accounting, additional wells and storage
capacity, vehicles, and a large network of users that has expanded beyond the boundary of the
original village (often financed by its own revenues). hn contrast, juntas that are barely breaking
even have one or two part-time employees, small one- or two-room offices in a poor state of
repair, a few folding chairs, and shoe boxes full of index cards.
Misuse of Water and Excess Consumption
5.5    The juntas' water systems were designed to provide water for household use (cooking,
cleaning, bathing, and toilets) without fully taking into account the supply cost of the water that
would be used. The greatest immediate threat to the sustainability of the juntas is excess
consumption, commercial use, and misuse of water. Some users keep their taps open and allow
the water to run all day, while others wet the dirt streets near their homes to keep the dust down.
Such uses overtax water extraction capacity (most systems are based on one well). At high levels
of use the real cost of pumping is not covered by the flat rate, which is based on a moderate
estimate of per capita household consumption. In some communities visited, waste and profligacy
cause daily demands on the system to exceed well, pump, and storage capacity, and prevent
system managers from providing all users with an uninterrupted supply at adequate pressure.
Clearly the solution is to meter and charge for consumption, and the juntas know this.
5.6    The Bank projects did not include water metering in order to keep per capita costs low
and thereby allow wider coverage. Water was therefore billed at a set monthly rate that was
usually the same for all users, although some systems had two or three rates based on the sanitary
features in use in each dwelling.'8 Many communities still use set rates. The waste problem is
compounded for many juntas by a few comparatively large consumers (such as laundries,
restaurants, commercial, and government buildings) that pay the same rate as most other users.
Without the disincentive of having to pay for what they use, these consumers can put
extraordinary burdens on the water supply. To protect its supply in such a situation, a junta may
resort to drastic measures. One junta visited during the evaluation was debating whether to cut off
water to the regional police station.
5.7    Almost all the juntas' boards of directors wantto meter water, but they have difficulty
raising the capital to buy the number of meters needed to do the job. And users, happy with the
current situation, tend to resist any attempt to make them pay the real cost of the water they use or
to finance the cost of improved measurement. Nevertheless, most juntas have begun to purchase
and install meters. SENASA's technical staff estimates that 80 percent of the juntas have begun to
install meters, but only about 20 have achieved full coverage. Until they reach universal coverage,
however, they find it difficult to charge those households with meters a variable tariff based on
use while their neighbors, who may be using more water, are still paying a flat rate. Since the
juntas often earn no extra income from investments in metering until the entire system is metered,
and reserve funds are rarely adequate to complete the job expeditiously, the junta directors visited
were quick to voice their regret that the Bank loan did not cover metering.
5.8    Users who fight rate increases have a short memory. Before juntas many families paid
four times the current cost of water to buy it from private providers (Table 5.1). A common joke
popular with junta directors is that user families never have trouble coming up with money for
18. For example, homes with just a courtyard faucet would pay a different rate than houses with sinks and flush toilets.



37
beer, just for water. Monthly tariffs are a fraction of monthly electric bills and represent an
estimated maximum of 7 percent of average monthly family cash income in the region.
Table 5.1: Comparison of Water Usage and Costs
Type of System             Number of      Daily average per capita  Average daily cost for
respondents plus  water consumption       family of five
reported family size    (liters)            (Guaranies)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~................ ............................. _................................... re o t d f_ iy sz   (ie s   G a a i s
Without system(hand carried)           5,313                27                    0
Purchasedfromwatercarts                 105                 52                  1,380
Connected withprivate water suppliers  3,013                83                   442
Supplied by juntas                    19,605                79                   314
Source: SENASA Department of Operations
Economic Benefits of the Rural Water Supply Projects
5.9    An approximate value for the probable minimum ERR was determined during project
preparation of RWS IV. The survey of Rural Water Supply Projects I-III was used to estimate
costs and benefits that could be expected. The calculations are based on 8,000 households in
communities with and without projects. In addition, preliminary engineering designs were done
for a sample of 30 representative communities in order to estimate system costs. Economic and
financial analyses were carried out to determine the incremental benefit for the three principal
project components over a 20-year period: new water supply systems; expansion of existing
systems; and sewage systems. The economic benefits were calculated for four different scenarios:
cash benefit only; cash benefit plus institutional benefits; cash benefit plus institutional benefits
plus consumer surplus; and time savings plus health benefits plus institutional benefits (water
components only). Costs were held constant. The ERRs for the first three scenarios are 9 percent,
16 percent, and 94, respectively. In the final scenario the ERR for new systems is 69 percent and
for expansion 59 percent. The four scenarios constitute a sensitivity analysis, showing that the
project would even be justifiable with an ERR of 9 percent in the base case. The ERR of the
second scenario, which takes into account the institutional benefits, is the more realistic one and
would give an ERR of 16 percent. The economic justification for the latrine component was based
on its low cost and the health hazards it would help reduce.
System Expansion and Resultant Refinancing
5.10   Most of the juntas' initial water systems have been expanded and improved because of
community initiatives. SENASA at times has provided additional equipment and technical
assistance, the cost of which has been added to the loan balance. This refinancing is reflected in
Figure 5.1, which shows the status of repayment for RWS I-III combined.



38
Figure 5.1: Comparison of Juntas in Arrears with
Those Up to Date
100
90    81
'A 8 8
= 70
_ 60
o 50
X  40              33                          34
30I
20 I1
z  10 l
0
In Arrears   Grace  Paid in Full Refinanced/ Up to Date
Period          Refnancing
Debt Service
5.11   The juntas have a good record of water bill collection. Accounts receivable for the
majority ofjuntas are only 5 percent to 15 percent of annual sales. Under normal circumstances,
juntas shut off water service to customers more than two or three months late in payments-the
director decides the number of months. Once water has been cut off, a reconnection fee must be
paid when the user's account is up to date. However, a few juntas have high percentages of
accounts receivable. Seven juntas once had ratios above 17 percent. In one junta visited during the
evaluation, a change of directors and some management decisiveness had been sufficient to solve
the delinquent account problem. SENASA normally closely monitors juntas that are having
collection difficulties. It also sometimes temporarily intervenes in a junta's administration.
5.12   As noted earlier, virtually all juntas cover their operating and maintenance costs with
revenues, but many are unable to keep their debt service current, even though the govermment
provides a subsidy to make the project affordable.19 About 49 percent of the Bank-financed juntas
are one or more months in arrears in their debt service to SENASA (Figure 5.2). This figure
significantly overstates the magnitude of the debt service problem, however.
5.13   One hundred sixty-six juntas have had their systems functioning long enough to begin
repayment of their loans.20 Of that number, 13 (8 percent) have already paid in full. An additional
5 (3 percent) are in the process of refinancing their debt because of system expansion, and 34 (20
percent) are up to date. Loans are given for a term of up to 20 years. SENASA estimates the
average total payments received by the government from juntas at G.45 1 million a year, while the
accumulated total arrears for the three rural water projects is G.262 million.
19. Communities are required to provide a minimum 22 percent of the investment cost unless agreed otherwise by both
SENASA and the Bank (the subsidy is based on SENASA's affordability criteria). Minimum requirements are nonnally
5 percent in cash; 5 percent in cash or labor, and 12 percent in debt.



39
5.14    The only way a junta in a remote village several hours from SENASA's office can make a
payment is to send a director with the cash on a bus to San Lorenzo. The cost and inconvenience
of such a trip is an incentive to letting arrears accumulate or waiting until other pressing business
arises before sending a commission to the city. SENASA staff claim to have developed several
mechanisms to overcome this problem (such as using local savings and loan cooperatives as
collection agents). They will be experimenting with these mechanisms in 1998. This has not been
a high priority for SENASA, however, because the funds go directly to the central government,
and repayment (or the lack thereof) are of little immediate consequence to the agency.
Figure 5.2: Status of Juntas' Debt Service
In Arrears
49%
20%
Grace Period    -                     Refinanced/
20%                   Paid in Full  Refinancing
8%          3/
Sustainability of SENASA's Participation
5.15    The ongoing technical support for new juntas and, to a lesser extent (because of the
volume of work projected under RWS IV), follow-up for existing ones is assured because
SENASA's activities are funded by ordinary budget processes.21 SENASA has been able to
finance its current operations and its construction program without financial difficulty out of the
government's contribution, proceeds from the various Bank loans, and grants from other foreign
20. At least 12 percent of the total capital expenditure is converted into an interest-bearing loan. The juntas repay the
loan in equal monthly installments over 15 to 20 years, with interest of 9.6 percent after a grace period equal to the
construction period plus six months.
21. SENASA's administrative and operating expenses and investment requirements in water supply and sanitation in rual areas are
financed by the government's general budget for the Ministry of Public Health. Annually, SENASA's allocation is submitted to the
Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance for approval and presentation to parliament.



40
and local entities. The capital subsidy for system construction can be as high as 78 percent of total
investment cost. It is unlikely that new juntas in villages not served by any water system can be
fully self-financing and still provide water to low- and middle-income rural families.



41
6.  Conclusions and Recommendations
Conclusions
6.1    Bank support for the rural water subsector in Paraguay has made a significant difference.
The achievements of the two completed (and the third nearly complete) projects are considerable.
The projects, along with other smaller programs, reduced the deficit in rural water supply,
increasing water coverage to about 20 percent of the 1997 rural population from the initial level of
less than 1 percent. Health impacts were largely as anticipated. As a result of project activities,
living conditions in the rural areas have improved substantially, infant mortality is down, waterbome
disease incidence is lower, and the status and lives of women are better.
6.2    The rural water infrastructure is in place and functioning. Moreover, the institutional
development achievements are impressive. Hundreds ofjuntas have been established in mrual
villages, and their members and directors have been trained to operate a reasonably complex water
delivery system. They keep the piped network operational, they ensure the functioning of the
pump(s) and water storage facilities, and hold regular meetings. Almost all juntas have expanded
their original operation, taking in new members and providing service to a broader pool of
beneficiaries without additional Bank support.
6.3    Of equal importance is the ability of the juntas to handle the administrative tasks inherent
in operating a commercial water system. They send out bills, keep account books, manage
employees, and (more or less) meet their debt obligations. All of this takes place in a participatory
and democratic way. Boards of directors routinely change members, and the committees are
continually strengthened by the growing number of ex-directors within the membership.
6.4    How well is it all working? It borders on the amazing that not one junta has gone
bankrupt, disbanded, or ceased providing services. Certainly, even on a worldwide basis, there are
few examples of 100 percent success creating rural organizations capable of maintaining the
intended benefit stream. The tasks these organizations perform are difficult, and they are in areas
in which none of their members had previous experience. Equally noteworthy is what has.
happened to the price of water. It has dropped from an unaffordable level (US$8/m3 from water
carts) to a price that all but the poorest of the poor can afford-capital costs are subsidized, but
this is not unusual for rural water supply schemes. SENASA has grown to meet the challenges
inherent in a work program that has expanded steadily. The loans have included substantial
technical assistance to SENASA for strengthening its managerial capabilities and helping it to
better organize the communities and design improved operation and maintenance procedures for
the water systems. These activities have clearly been beneficial. In addition to creating new juntas
and preparing directors to run them, SENASA has provided indispensable follow-up assistance in
such key areas as monitoring of water quality, troubleshooting pump and system problems, and
administrative support over a growing geographic area.
6.5    The approach used in Paraguay is well worth applying in other countries where similar
conditions prevail. There is no doubt, however, that all the participants in the project have been
more enthusiastic about the potable water aspects of the work, and that what has been done in
sanitation was something of an afterthought (often occurring because NGOs or other donors
provided extra assistance).



42
6.6    Although SENASA's community promotion activities have focused on organizing the
juntas and developing their commitment to participate in the project from initial planning and
financing to fostering their capacity for the subsequent operation and maintenance of the systems,
the manner in which this is done is slowly changing. The demands of the new committees and
those in formation increasingly tax the implementation capacity of SENASA. As a result, existing
organizations are beginning to help each other, creating new associations to provide needed
services and increasingly finding private sector assistance on their own to cope with simple
problems. The creation of the Association of Juntas as well as the Cooperative of Juntas signify
the subsector is in good shape. It is weaning itself from its near-total dependence on SENASA and
learning to take care of itself.
6.7    The relationship between the Bank and the client has been good. The expansion in rural
water supply and sanitation coverage would not have been possible without Bank participation.
Senior SENASA staff had only positive recollections of their interactions with the Bank over the
years.
Factors of Performance
6.8    What made the Paraguay intervention a success?
•   Continuity of staffing. The rural water supply loans were more dependent than many
Bank projects on a series of complex events taking place in hundreds of villages in
more or less the same way. A certain constancy of vision facilitates such an
undertaking. Much of the success achieved is doubtless because the rural water
projects have not changed task manager very often. Continuity of staffing permitted
Bank-client relationships to develop a deeper understanding over a prolonged period.
The lessons of success have been learned, and the Bank has been able to work with
SENASA to see that once problems are identified, they are systematically dealt with.
=   Widespread rural electrification. Near-universal rural electrification permitted the
projects to use extremely reliable electric pumps. One of the greatest problems rural
water supply projects face in most countries is tied to the maintenance, repair, and
parts supply associated with gasoline- and diesel-powered pumps or handpumps.
* Timely educational and training inputs. The technical preparation of the juntas and
the diffusion of potable water-related health benefits were facilitated by timely and
coordinated use of training. Although the effort was large-scale, the self-evaluation
workshop participants highlighted the need for even greater efforts in this area, a
finding that supports OED evaluation results in other countries.
* The projects built on the country's social and cultural traditions. The people of
Paraguay, like those of several other Latin American countries, have a long tradition
of working together for the good of the community. Working on committees for
village betterment is a part of rural life. Most villages have such committees around
their schools, the church, and certain sports. Thus, at least some of the interpersonal
challenges of working together on juntas were familiar. The fact that SENASA
charges for its assistance was both culturally astute and, in a way, supportive of long-



43
standing government practice of not fostering dependency.
* Local ownership of infrastructure. The juntas owe some of their sustainability and
permanency to their ownership of significant and visible property. They usually own
at least two plots of land, one for the office and at least one other for the well, water
tank, and other structures. The juntas not only provide an essential service that is
highly prized by the entire village, they are also visible to the community they serve
and offer a place where users unhappy with any aspect of the service can go and
complain.
Recommendations
6.9    Despite the demonstrable benefits of the water program, several areas require further
attention.
*   Tariffs need to be set at sustainable levels. The strongest and weakest juntas are
separated by a large gap. The biggest difference between them is income, a function
of tariffs. While the juntas are in the business of providing an affordable service to
their members rather than trying to make a profit for their stockholders, too many
juntas do not understand the full cost of the service they provide. Ultimately it is in
the interest of their members to replace expensive infrastructure (such as water
towers) before the end of its useful life and not after. Juntas that cover the full cost of
water supply ultimately provide better service to members.
*   Weak juntas need additional administrative help over the short term. A junta with a
computer costs less to run in the long term (boxes full of paper and file cards are
tedious to handle, and important documents get misplaced). Computers also can
make projections and otherwise provide information of importance to system
managers and directors. The latter often have little time to spend in the juntas
because they are volunteers.
*   Water meters should be covered in the loans for newjuntas, and existingjuntas that
are up to date with their payments should have access to credit suffi cientfor
universal metering of household use. Every junta visited stressed the importance of
starting out with meters. Even though the per capita costs appear to be very high if
meters are included, those costs could be recovered very quickly because of the
income the meters generate. Once system users get used to not paying the real cost
for the quantity of water they use, it becomes extremely difficult for directors to
make needed changes. The waste and misuse of water will only stop when all water
is measured and paid for. But if water cannot be measured and charged for, it is too
difficult for the juntas to raise the money to buy meters.
*   SENASA should be provided with technical assistance in knowledge management. A
persistent weakness in SENASA is its inability to get information to those who need
it. Monitoring is taking place. The juntas produce monthly updates on work in
progress, but no unit in SENASA collects and systematizes that data. As a result,
most staff members keep their own files, and nobody knows who is keeping which
file. This inevitably leads to coordination problems. An activity that should be



44
prioritized as highly as improving accessibility to information is improving the flow
of information. Information management support is needed. Staff complained that
information and publications sent by the Bank and other institutions never reach
field staff. Information does not flow smoothly from the field to the top (or to Bank
missions), so decisions sometimes have to be made without good information on
what is happening or what is needed on the ground. And information does not flow
horizontally, so SENASA staff do not know what their colleagues are doing, and
they often are surprised to find them visiting the same junta on the same day.
* SENASA 's evaluation capacity needs to be increased. The self-evaluation workshop
conducted for this study was the first such event in almost 20 years of
implementation. Staff have learned how to run such workshops now, and they should
be encouraged to hold more of them. Self-evaluation activities need to go beyond
required Bank reports, and they need to involve field staff and beneficiaries.



Summary of RWS Achievements
Project                            RWS I (Loan 1502-PA)                                       RWS II (Loan 2014-PA)
Objective
Projected                     Actual                      Projected                       Actual
A. Construct and extend water    Provide safe water to about  Constructed water supply  Construct or extend existing  Extended water systems serving
supply systems               63,000 inhabitants by         systems serving 187,490 people  water supply systems in 49 rural  94,765 inhabitants of 51 rural
constructing and extending   in 47 rural communities.     communities, serving about    communities.
water supply systemns in 42 rural                         60,000 people.
communities.
B. Provide adequate individual   Execute a pilot project for  Installed 500 wet latrines with    nstall about 2,000 sanitary units  Completed 2,000 sanitary units.
waste disposal solutions     individual waste disposal     tile fields.                 (consisting of a shower, lavatory,
solutions, including                                      and laundry facilities).
approximdaely 4,500 tile fields.
Provide 2,000 sanitary units  Completed 2,000 sanitary units;  a. Construct about 2,000 latrines.  a. Completed 2,000 latrines.
(mUall units with shower, toilet,  sanitation conditions were  b. Connect 23,710 households.   b. Connected 18,953          ,
lavatory, and laundry facilities),  improved.             c. Provide 732 public standpipes. households.
c. Constructed 37 public
standpipes.
d. Built 3 non-perforated wells.
C. Strengthen managerial and  Acquire miscellaneous        Fully completed.             Procure equipment and tools for
operational capabilities     construction equipment and                                 regional laboratories, well
shop tools.                                               drilling operations, community
repair shop, and construction
supervision
D. Technical assistance      Conduct a technical assistance    Partially completed. The  Provide technical assistance to    Upgraded staff perfonnance in
program for SENASA in        capacity of SENASA to        SENASA in project             project management and
management, operations, and  mobilize community           management.                   operations.
financial administration.    participation was developed
under the project.
E. An education and promotional  Canry out an education and  a. Carried out This affected  Provide health education   Highly satisfactory both in
program in basic public health    promotional program in basic    health conditions, watelbome    programs.           promoting community
public health during preparation   diseases have decreased.                             participation in the project and
and execution to ensure that  b. After completion, each                                 developing awareness of
project benefits are fully   community took possession of                               hygienic practices and of       N
realized.                    its system and inherited                                   protecting water resources from
responsibility for its operation                          contamination.
and maintenance.



Project                            RWS III (Loan 3519-PA)                                              RWS IV
Objectives           _
Projected                      Acual                       Projected                      Act
Construct and extend water   Build water supply systems in    a. Constructed water supply  Provide water and on-site
supply system                about 170 nura communities,    system in 177 rural communities, sanitation services to 330 new
benefiting about 230,000     benefiting 119,060 people.    systems, benefiting about
inhabitants.                 b. Constructed 10 public      310,000 inhabitants.
standpipes.
Provide adequate individual  Provision and improvement of   Connected 23,812 households.    Construct sewage systems in
waste disposal solutions     on-site sanitation systems for                             about 10 rural communities and
about 250,000 inhabitants.                                 21,500 latrines to serve about
40,000 inhabitants.
Provide water supply and                                   Expand 10 existing systems and
sanitation systems to about                                build 35 new systems for the
20,000 of the dispersed rural                              indigenous and dispersed rural
population and indigenous                                  population, covering 33,000
settlements through low-cost                              inhabitants.
appropriate technologies.                                  __
Technical assistance         Technical assistance program to
assist and train SENASA
implementation techniques and
development of an educational
and project cost.
institufional improvement for                              Create an association ofjuntas
O&M.                                                       in selected deparlments of the
country, for technology transfer
and support among juntas,
including training program for
the technical staff.
Pilot the promotion of the role
of the private operators
(aguaterias).
Prepare a National Rural
Strategy and Program for Water
Supply and Sanitation.



Attachment
47
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
S.G. No. 513
Mr. Roger Slade                                               Asunci6n,
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group,                May 14, 1998
OED, World Bank
Dear Mr. Slade:
I am pleased to write in response to the draft Impact Evaluation Report on Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Projects I, II, and III.
At the same time, I provide below a series of comments that might help in
reaching valid conclusions with regard to the experiences gained from these projects.
As regards negative impacts, the supply systems still operated by the longest-
established of the juntas de saneamiento (officially recognized sanitation committees)
have now been in service for 20 years, and -- because of ground saturation -- the
wastewater is now flowing into streets, creating a health hazard and making it urgently
necessary to construct sewerage systems.
It is also to be noted that water supply systems have a large positive impact on
socioeconomic life. A recent study (by Facetti and Vidovich) refers to the considerable
savings to be gained in the form of health and increased output through the installation of
such systems in intermediate and small communities. Parents avoid both the costs
incurred as a result of the ill health and suffering of their children when the latter are
affected by water-borne diseases, and the time lost from productive work when they are
obliged to be with sick or convalescent children who are admitted as inpatients at clinics.
It is very important that environmental epidemiology be included in the Fourth
Project, so that evaluation of its impact on health can be more effective and real.
A point to be noted is the considerable degree to which women have participated
in the formation of the juntas since their inception, by taking part in surveys and helping
construct and manage the systems. This process has also provided motivation for
education at household level, raising consciousness and instilling a proper sense of the
value of water.
In many cases, the construction of a water supply system has also served to bring
family members together, in addition to strengthening ties among neighbors, and to



48
establish common links that open the way to other initiatives, promote community action,
and make it likely that the systems will become sustainable.
As regards the genuine concern expressed over pricing in rural areas, the
problems this raises can only be solved by defining policies to govern the sector and its
tariffs and by restructuring the sector, including introduction of a regulatory and pricing
framework. These steps have now been proposed in the Andlisis Sectorial de Agua
Potable y Saneamiento del Paraguay ("Water Supply and Sanitation Sectoral Analysis
for Paraguay"), and are expected to be implemented shortly.
Similarly, it should be noted that the health decentralization policy implemented
by this Ministry has considerable significance for municipalities and gobernaciones
[governorates]. Its implementation began very recently with the promulgation of Law
1032/96, establishing the National Health System, and Regulatory Decree No. 19,966 of
February 17, 1998, governing local health decentralization, citizen participation, and
self-management of health care.
It should also be noted that the juntas provide the first example ever of a
decentralized water-supply system in Paraguay. There is, however, a long tradition of
such institutions, and we believe the time has come to take another step forward by
strengthening the juntas in their task of managing sanitation systems (i.e. sewerage
systems, sewage treatment, disposal of solid waste, etc.).
Each of the World Bank's projects has served to strengthen SENASA's
management capacity for project preparation, implementation, and monitoring, directly
influencing the Service's staff by providing them with the necessary skills and
experience to deal efficiently and capably with other challenges, such as the Fourth
Water Supply and Sanitation Project (which will include the construction of 330 new
water-supply systems and 10 sewerage systems, the extension of 10 existing systems, and
the construction of 3 5 systems for indigenous communities).
Because of the success of IBRD projects I, II, and III, the National Government is
committed to continue strengthening and supporting SENASA, so that the objective of
providing water supplies and sanitation for all can be achieved as soon as possible.
I thank you for this important Evaluation Report, and trust that these comments
will prove useful to your Department.
Sincerely,
/s/   Dr. Andres Vidovich Morales,
Minister



