FILE  t;ur 1             Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2172-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
November 21, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                 ¢ 126
¢ 1.00                  US$0.008
0 1,000                 US$7.94
0 1,000,000             US$7,937
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CORPOSANA       -    Sanitation Works Corporation
PAHO            -    Pan American Health Organization
SENASA          -    National Environmental Health Service
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Republic of Paraguay.
Beneficiary:        National Environmental Sanitation Service (SENASA)
through the Ministry of Health.
Amount:             US$6.0 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
7.9 interest per annum.
Relending
Terms:            Since SENASA is a government department, proceeds of the
loan would be channeled through a project account with the
Central Bank and passed on as grants to SENASA. SENASA in
turn would pass on the funds in kind to the local communi-
ties who would contribute at least 20% of investment cost,
in cash, through the provision of labor and materials or
through repayment over 10-20 years at 6% interest.
Project
Description:      Provision of basic sanitation services over a four-year
period to 42 villages in the Central, Cordillera, and
Paraguari departments. Project includes: (a) construction
of water supply systems to serve some 63,000 villagers via
household connections and standpipes; (b) construction of
individual waste disposal solutions to serve some 32,000
villagers; (c) implementation of a community health education
program; and (d) implementation of technical assistance and
training program for SENASA.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                         (US$ Million Equivalent)
Local   Foreign  Total
Construction works                   2.81      2.47    5.28
Tools, equipment, engineering
and administration                  .25       .75    1.00
Education, promotion, technical
assistance, training                .07       .35    0.42
Total Base Cost                 3.13      3.57    6.70
Physical and price contingencies     1.47      1.53    3.00
Working Capital                      0.40         -    0.40
Total Project Cost                   5.00      5.10    10.10
Interest during construction            -      0.90    0.90
Total Cost                           5.00      6.00    11.00
Percent of Total Cost               45        55     100
Financing Plan:                                    (US$ Million Equivalent)
Local       Foreign       Total
Bank                            -         6.00         6.00
Government                   3.40            -         3.40
Local Communities            1.60            -         1.60
Total Financing              5.00         6.00        11.00
Rate of Return:     It has not been possible to calculate a rate of return
because most of the benefits of the project on public
health cannot be meaningfully quantified. The project
represents the least cost solution.
Estimated Schedule
of Disbursements of                               Annual
Bank Loan (in US$         Fiscal Year          Disbursement         Cumulative
Thousands)
1977/78                   50                50
1978/79                1,390             1,440
1979/80                1,960             3,400
1980/81                1,900             5,300
1981/82                  700             6,000
Staff Project
Report            November 21, 1977 (No. 1659a-PA)



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR A
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$6.0 million to assist in
financing a Rural Water Supply Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An updating economic report covering short-term development entitled
"Economic Memorandum on Paraguay" (1582-PA) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in June 1977. An economic mission visited the country in September
1977 to evaluate the regional development prospects of the area adjacent to
the Parana River. The mission is preparing a special report on this topic.
A summary of Country Basic Data is attached as Annex I.
Economic Performance
3.        Paraguay is endowed with vast areas of unutilized lands well-suited
for agriculture or livestock, and substantial hydroelectric potential, largely
on the Parana River which forms its eastern and southern borders. Despite
these natural resources, Paraguay has experienced severe obstacles in the
process of development. Its remoteness from foreign markets, its scattered
population, its weak transport network, and its dependence on rural production
present formidable constraints to growth. The private sector still consists
mainly of small traditional firms, and the role of the public sector in the
economy is limited. For many decades, per capita income and employment grew
slowly and emigration served as an outlet for unemployed and underemployed
manpower. More recently, however, many Paraguayans who had emigrated to
neighboring countries have returned, responding to the expanded employment
opportunities associated with the construction of the Itaipu dam.    Furthermore
the expansion of the agricultural frontier has generated immigration of farmers
from abroad. Nevertheless, the country's-population density remains very low
in relation to agricultural land.
4.      i The economic potential of the country has begun to be realized
during the 1970's. The most significant factors leading to the changed
circumstances have been a rapid expansion of land under cultivation and
the beginning of the exploitation of the enormous hydroelectric potential
of the part of the Parana River along the country's border. A rise in
external demand and favorable prices were instrumental in accelerating



agricultural growth. The effective supply response of Paraguayan agriculture
was made possible by an effort to improve the transport infrastructure and to
implement a comprehensive set of programs designed to increase and diversify
exports of agricultural products. The good performance of agriculture in
recent years has brought about an improvement in the real incomes of the rural
population, which comprises about three-fifths of the total. A significant
share of production of tobacco, cotton, and soybeans, which account for most
of the recent expansion, is grown by small farmers who have received land
under the Government's colonization programs. Roughly one out of every four
agricultural workers have benefitted from these land settlement efforts.
Moreover, rural wages have increased sharply in some areas where demand for
agricultural labor has recently exceeded supply. Thus, the benefits of agri-
cultural progress have been fairly widely shared. This has acted to reduce
the levels of rural-urban migration. Per capita income grew at 5.8% per
annum during 1972-76 compared to the 1.2% averaged during the previous 30
years. Economic growth has also been accompanied by improvements in the
social sectors as evidenced by increases in the level of life expectancy
and literacy, and a reduction in infant mortality. Nutritional levels are
compardble to those found in other countries with higher per capita incomes.
Furthermore, the Government has started to emphasize over the last three
years a series of programs aimed at extending social and other back-up services,
financial support, and technical assistance to existing and new land settle-
ments. These programs should help in spreading the benefits of growth more
effectively among the poorer segments of the population. The proposed Rural
Water Supply Project reflects the thrust of recent Government programs.
5.        Exploitation of the country's hydropower potential has been facil-
itated by treaties signed with Brazil and Argentina to form two binational
auchorities for the construction and operation of two or more hydroelectric
plants aggregating at least 17,000 MW. Actual construction of the Itaipu dam
with Brazil, one of the largest projects of its kind ever built, has begun and
is on schedule. Tnese developments have been accompanied by increased foreign
capital inflows, a notable expansion of investment levels, and an acceleration
of economic growth. Paraguay's economy is now in the midst of a rapid trans-
formation spurred mainly by agricultural expansion and construction activity
on the Itaipu dam. The rapid growth of agriculture has continued unabated
in 1977, and, together with the reactivation of agroindustrial activity in
the wood and beef sectors, should make possible the attainment of a 7.5-8%
GDP growth rate.
6.        The growth of private savings and capital formation has permitted
the economy to reach a high overall level of savings in recent years (21.8%
of gross domestic income in 1976). Although consumption has declined rather
steadily relative to GDP during 1972-76, there has still been a fairly substan-
tial gain in per capita consumption (2.7% per year) during this period. More-
over, fiscal and monetary policies have been generally successful in preventing
inflation originating in the foreign sector from reaching an excessive rate.
The increase in domestic prices which had reached 22% in 1974 decelerated to
8% in 1975 and 6% in 1976, paralleling the tapering off of price increases
for imports and exports. Inflation may reach 10% in 1977 owing primarily to
the rapid increase in the money supply generated by large capital inflows
associated with the construction of the Itaipu dam.



- 3 -
7.        Total Central Administration revenues have declined relative to
GDP, from 9.7% in 1974 to 8.9% in 1976. This has largely been due to a rela-
tive decline in revenues from taxes on international trade, reflecting the
Government's attempt to stimulate private investment by removing or reducing
import duties. The Government has been able to compensate for lagging revenues
by keeping a fairly tight rein on current expenditures. While these have
remained at about the same proportion of GDP over the last three years, there
has been a gradual decline in Central Government savings from 2.6 to 2.1% of
GDP (still considerably above the 1972/73 level). Public capital expenditures
have increased steadily relative to GDP over the past two years so that over-
all budgetary balance has swung from a small surplus to a small deficit. Net
external financing has exceeded the deficit, allowing the Government to reduce
its debt outstanding to the monetary authorities.
8.        Paraguay has enjoyed a good overall balance-of-payments performance
in recent years largely as a result of heavy capital inflows including direct
investment, foreign exchange flows associated with construction of the Itaipu
dam and foreign borrowing by the Government. Thus, despite modest growth of
exports and a rapidly widening current account deficit reflecting higher fuel
costs and large-scale imports of capital goods, Paraguay has experienced a
gain in net foreign exchange reserves during the past three years. Net foreign
exchange reserves reached a level of US$152 million at the end of 1976, equiva-
lent to four months of imports. The good balance-of-payments performance is
continuing in 1977 with an increase of net reserves of nearly US$85 million
during the first half of the year.
Economic Prospects
9.        Paraguay's development prospects are quite favorable.   The exploita-
tion of the country's vast hydropower resources will provide a source of
foreign exchange earnings and abundant energy. The construction of the
hydroelectric projects will continue to provide a significant stimulus to
the growth of the economy, while capital inflows associated with them streng-
then the balance of payments. In addition, since only a small portion of
the country's arable land is presently under cultivation, there is consider-
able potential for further expansion of agriculture and agroindustry taking
advantage of extensive land suitable for agriculture, livestock and forestry.
10.       The country's development strategy aims at sustaining the growth
momentum of agriculture and agroindustry, giving high priority to land settle-
ment and to the provision of transport infrastructure to facilitate the flow
of goods to markets and export outlets. The Government is carrying out a
program to assist farm settlers to increase their productivity, and is
expanding credit for agriculture and agroindustries. In the case of small
farmers', the emphasis is on the consolidation of existing colonization
schemesland the establishment of some additional ones. Through foreign
private,investment and credit programs, the Government hopes to encourage
the concurrent development of industries, particularly of those that would
help raise the value-added content of primary production.



- 4 -
11.       The authorities are aware that the on-going boom in private invest-
ment and the prospect of continued high levels of GDP growth will call for
greater public investment in supporting infrastructure as well as increased
expenditure for education, health, rural development and other development-
related services. An acceleration of public capital formation will require
tax measures, pending substantial transfers from power export earnings to
the Central Government, to ensure the generation of additional internal
resources to provide the domestic contribution for a balanced investment
program. At the same time, higher current expenditures in the public sector
will be required to improve effectiveness and broaden the scope of public
action in the social sectors. The favorable prospects of the economy should
also allow for improvement in the rate of growth of private consumption.
12.       The level and pattern of public investment that could be achieved
during the next five years will also depend on the technical and administ-
rative capacity of the public sector to prepare and implement projects.
Although improvements have been made in the planning mechanism in recent
years, a bigger public sector investment program would require a large
number of well-prepared projects. There is a need, therefore, for upgrading
the technical aspects of project identification and preparation, and for
devoting increased attention to enhancing the administrative capacity of
public sector institutions. A broader investment effort will require stream-
lining and decentralizing the decision-making process. Moreover, salaries of
scarce professional staff need to be adjusted upwards to compete effectively
with the increased demands of the private sector for their services. Given
the medium-term nature of these types of obstacles and the urgent need for
greater public investment to support higher levels of private economic
activity, substantial external technical assistance will be needed more than
ever before to bolster the institution-building process.
13.       The direct capital inflows stemming from the Itaipu project will
be more than sufficient to finance its contribution to the current account
deficit and should, in fact, cover 65% of the entire external gap during the
next five years. Under the terms of the treaty, the debt associated with
these capital inflows is guaranteed entirely by Brazil and does not form part
of Paraguay's external public debt. The debt of the Binational Entity will,
in turn, be serviced through the sale of the electricity produced by the dam
after the first turbines are installed in 1983. This situation will still
leave a requirement of approximately US$200 million per year to be financed
from other sources. Direct private investment, which can be expected to
continue growing rapidly, should provide about US$60 million. Suppliers'
credits and official external assistance will probably provide US$100 million
per year. The remaining gap of about US$40 million would need to be financed
by borrowing from commercial banks. Since Paraguay has in the past obtained
the bulk of its capital needs on concessionary terms, its present debt service
ratio (7.2% in 1976) is relatively low. The additional borrowing of this
estimated magnitude should raise the debt service ratio to around 10-12% until
1981, which is well within the bounds of continued creditworthiness.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
14.       Paraguay has received US$135.8 million (net of cancellations) of
Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$90.3 million has been in the
form of twelve IBRD loans, and eight credits totalling US$45.5 million have
been made from IDA resources.   As of September 30, 1977, the Bank and IDA
held US$131 million, including US$73.3 million undisbursed. The amount
held by the Bank and IDA as of December 31, 1976, was equivalent to 25.2% of
Paraguay's external debt, with a blend of about 45% IDA and 55% IBRD. The
service on this debt amounted to 13.1% of total debt service in 1976 repre-
senting about 1% of exports of goods and nonfactor services. On a sectoral
basis, Bank and IDA assistance to Paraguay has been 51% for agriculture, 24%
for transportation, 15% for education, 7% for industry, and 2% for pre-
investment studies in various sectors. Execution of these projects has, on
the whole, been satisfactory.
15.       IFC has had only one operation in Paraguay.   In 1974, it financed a
wood processing project. Its participation, a US$5.4 million operation with
FINAP, S.A., consisted of a US$4.0 million loan, an equity participation of
US$1.0 million, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost overruns of
US$0.4 million. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments as of September 30, 1977 and notes on the execution of on-
going projects.
16.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay was very active in FY77, and three
loans totalling US$40 million and a credit of US$4.0 million were approved
fo, education, rural development and industrial credit. In FY78, the program
consists of the proposed project before you today and a highway maintenance
and construction project, which we plan to submit to the Board within the
next four months. in addition, work is underway on a domestic airports
project and a livestock project.
17.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives which are interdependent and comple-
mentary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely than
before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second objective is to help Paraguay expand output, including
exports, by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large con-
tributions to production and employment. A third objective is to support
programs that will bring about improvements in the management of the economy
and, particularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and
financiall intermediaries. A fourth objective is to transfer sufficient ex-
ternal resources to complement Paraguay's domestic savings and provide the
necessary funds for maintaining an adequate level of economic and social
investments in a framework of sound domestic finances.
18.       While the last objective primarily influences the magnitude of the
Bank Group's program in Paraguay, the other three jointly determine its com-
position. Naturally, many operations serve more than one of the ends listed
and may, moreover, support more specific government objectives. Thus, Bank
Group assistance for education, rural development and rural water supply is



- 6 -
designed to help ease the rural poverty problem and to improve the living
standards of the lowest 40% of the income distribution scale. Bank Group
lending for industry and livestock is aimed at increasing the value added of
agricultural products destined for export and at expanding marketing outlets,
particularly for small farmers. Lastly, loans in the transport sector are
designed to help improve institutional structures and policies of the sector,
which play a vital role in supporting the production activities of the agri-
cultural and industrial sectors. The proposed project will help expand the
scope of the Government's rural water supply program and also help strengthen
the National Environmental Sanitation Service, the only supplier of water and
sanitation systems to the rural population.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Current Situation
19.       About 97% of the population and at least 90% of economic activity
are located in the south-eastern half of the country. Although two rivers
(the Parana and the Paraguay) which account for the bulk of the country's
abundant river flow border this area, Paraguay relies mainly on groundwater
for its water supply. Surface water resources are being used mainly for
electricity generation and irrigation purposes. This situation is expected
to continue over the next decades at least in the central regions of Paraguay
where ground waters of good quality can be found in sufficient amounts to
supply the existing and foreseeable demand.
20.       At present, only 17% of the country's population has access to
safe and adequate sources of water. Furthermore, levels of service vary
greatly between urban and rural areas. Currently, some 36% of the urban
population and only 6% of the rural population has water supply service. This
compares with an average of over 76 and 24% in urban and rural areas in Latin
America, and 70 and 20% respectively in countries with a similar per capita
income as Paraguay. Moreover, only in Asuncion is the water treated; water
supply in other cities is based on raw water of dubious quality, without
chlorination. Only ten villages (of 134 communities of less than 4,000
inhabitants) have a completed water supply system; in another 22 communi-
ties, systems are partially completed or under construction. On the average,
50% of the houses are connected to the system and the remainder is served
through public standpipes or individually dug wells. The rest of the people
rely mainly on contaminated surface sources, water holes and some inadequately
protected wells. As a whole, service levels are the lowest in South America.
21.       The levels of service of sewerage disposal facilities are even lower.
At present, some 16% of the urban population is served by some sewerage system,
mainly in Asuncion. Elsewhere, the population depends on individual solutions,
mainly latrines. This compares with 65% of the urban population and 22% of
the rural population (and a weighted average of 46%) for Latin America as
a whole, and 60% and 10% respectively for countries with a similar income
level as Paraguay.



22.       The social implications of this situation are predictable.    In rural
areas, low-income families have traditionally depended on unsafe sources of
water supply and sanitation facilities. Similarly, in urban areas, while
coverage of water supply systems has improved appreciably over the last ten
years, the facilities have been largely based on individual house connections
in the more affluent and middle-class neighborhoods, leaving the poor in the
periphery of towns largely unserved. The result has been widespread incidence
of waterborne or water-related diseases which constitute the major cause of
sickness and death, particularly in the countryside. The provision of safe
water and sanitation facilities thus constitutes the single most important
investment that could improve the health, and thus the productivity of the
rural population.
Sector Organization
23.       Since 1966, the Corporacion de Obras Sanitarias (CORPOSANA), a
public agency under the Ministry of the Interior, has been responsible for the
provision of water and sewerage services in all towns of more than 4,000
inhabitants which represent 29% of the total population of the country.
CORPOSANA now supplies water in Asuncion through 40,000 house connections (50%
of the city's population). CORPOSANA constructs and operates systems in other
towns through local offices which form part of its organization.
24.       In response to the more complex situation in the countryside, the
provision of water and sewerage services to the rural population has been the
responsibility since 1972 of a specialized department under the Ministry of
Health: Servicio Nacional de Saneamiento Ambiental - SENASA. The institution
is responsible for the water supply and sanitation services in villages with
4,000 or fewer inhabitants as well as the remainder of the rural population.
SENASA is also responsible for industrial hygiene, food and quality control
and matters affecting health and pollution control in the country at large.
However, the bulk of SENASA's operations are concentrated in the water sector.
25.       SENASA constructs village water systems jointly with local Juntas de
Saneamiento, who are legally responsible for operating and maintaining them
after construction. Each committee agrees to contribute cash and materials to
initiallcosts, organize local unskilled labor, and collect connection charges
and tariffs on agreed scales. Although only a portion of the capital costs
are recbvered (see paragraph 42) in the ten systems operated by communities in
cooperation with SENASA, the agreed arrangements have been working satisfac-
torily with a near zero rate of default. On the other hand, although SENASA's
objective is to develop rural water supply programs, its management does not
in practice have the necessary degree of administrative experience to imple-
ment a large-scale investment program. Moreover, SENASA's shortage of trained
manpower in accounting and project management, as well as limited capabilities
in carrying out basic health education programs, limits further its ability to
cope with the current situation. The proposed project has been designed to
address itself to these key areas, and thus is designed to provide SENASA the
necessary technical assistance helping to strengthen substantially the effec-
tiveness of the implementing agency.



-8-
Sector Programs and Finances
26.       The overwhelming emphasis in the past effort in the water and
sewerage sector has been on the improvement of services in the urban areas,
which have received almost all the external assistance to the sector and
most of the allotted government funds. Thus, a total of US$29 million equiv-
alent, of which US$7 million from the US Eximbank and US$22 million from the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), has gone to water supply and sanitation
in Asuncion and other cities. CORPOSANA, the agency for urban water supply,
is currently engaged in a program with the support of the IDB, to construct
water systems in nine towns aimed at providing a total of 54,000 house connec-
tions. This is the first organized attempt to supply the demand in the
interior cities.
27.       As a result of the major emphasis on the cities, little has been
left over for the rural sector, including villages with 4,000 or fewer inhab-
itants. External aid has been limited to technical assistance and small
donations of equipment from such agencies as the Pan-American Health Organiza-
tion (PAHO), US Agency for International Development (USAID), and United
Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). Government investments in the period
1971-76 have amounted to only US$0.5 million equivalent. The insufficiency
of the efforts undertaken hitherto is particularly glaring when viewed in
the context of the goals set at a Special Meeting of the Ministers of Health
of the Americas in 1972. On that occasion, the goal was set for 1980 of
providing 80% of the urban population in Latin America with house connected
water supply and 50% of the rural population with piped water distribution,
and 50% of the urban and 30% of the rural population with sewerage or latrines.
To meet these goals, more than US$7 million (in 1977 prices) would be needed
on average each year during the 1978-80 period. Considering competing claims
on fiscal and local communities' resources and the need for institutional
buildup in particular in SENASA, the achievement of these goals is unlikely.
28.       The proposed project would be the first significant step in this
direction, and would embody a major reorientation of Paraguay's program in
the water supply sector. It would serve to channel substantial funds to
rural communities, thus helping correct the existing imbalance between
investment in urban and rural water and sanitation services, and assisting
in diminishing the large gap between urban and rural living standards. The
Government plans to devote 7 percent (approximately 07.5 billion) of total
public investment in 1976-81 to the water supply and sewerage sector and plans
to raise the rural sub-sector's share from 2 to 30 percent of total sector
investment, largely as a result of participation in the proposed project. At
the same time, the Government will continue the on-going substantial program
to improve water supply and sanitation in urban areas.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       A report entitled "Staff Project Report of a Rural Water Supply
Project" (No. 1659-PA, dated November 21, 1977) is being distributed sepa-
rately. A Loan and Project Summary is being placed at the front of this
report. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is appended as Annex III. The
project was identified and prepared by SENASA with assistance from PAHO in
1975 and 1976 on the basis of six pilot projects carried out from 1973 to
1975. It was appraised by a Bank mission in January-February 1977. This
was followed by an operational mission which reviewed the legal and insti-
tutional implications of the project. Negotiations were held in Washington
from September 26 to 30; the Paraguayan Delegation was led by Dr. Cesar Romeo
Acosta, President of the Central Bank.
Project Objectives and Description
30.       The proposed project has a threefold objective.   First, it would
assist in achieving a better balance in economic opportunities through the
improvement of key elements of social infrastructure which support the coun-
try's agriculture-based development. Second, it would enable SENASA to expand
the scope of its operations by strengthening its administrative capabilities
and improving its financial management and procedures. Third, the project
would support and consolidate the self-help efforts of the local communities
through assistance to and expansion of the water committee system as well as
the pilot water-use and health education schemes based on community partici-
pation for eventual replication in other areas of the country.
31.       To this end, the proposed project would concentrate on the rural
subsector where existing facilities are more scarce, incomes are very much
lower and domestic and external resource mobilization more difficult than in
the urban subsector. The proposed project, the first Bank operation entirely
geared to rural water supply, would serve the three most densely populated
departments in Paraguay -- Central, Paraguari, and Cordillera -- close to
the capital city. The project area was chosen so as to enable SENASA to
expand operations gradually outwards until it acquires sufficient capability
to serve more dispersed communities. In 1976, approximately 75% of the area's
active population was engaged in agriculture and the remainder in small agro-
industries and handicrafts. Per capita incomes in the project area are
estimated at about US$200 in 1975 prices (of-which some US$100 are cash
incomes), as compared to US$570 for the country as a whole. Six systems
are currently partially completed or under construction in the project area.
32.       Specifically, the project would consist of:   (i) Construction of
new water supply systems or extension of existing water supply systems in 42
preselected communities with populations of 100 to 4,000; (ii) execution of a
pilot project for individual waste disposal solutions, 2,000 sanitary units
(including toilet, shower and laundry facilities) and 4,500 tile fields
(privies provided with septic tanks with percolating systems); (iii) execution



- 10 -
of a pilot community health education program oriented toward village partici-
pation in the construction and administration of sanitary facilities; and (iv)
implementation of a technical assistance training and equipment program for
SENASA aimed at strengthening its financial management and project administra-
tion capabilities.
33.       SENASA has developed a set of practical criteria to select communi-
ties for the project: Main criteria are (i) population size and density;
(ii) possibility to develop easily and economically a reliable source of water;
(iii) desire and initiative of the community to obtain water supply and
excreta disposal systems; together with community organization to partici-
pate actively in planning and construction of the system and to care for
future administration, operation and maintenance; (iv) willingness and
ability to contribute to construction costs with a minimum of cash, labor,
and materials, etc. and to pay for the required periodic charges for system
operation. In addition to these criteria the per capita subsidy for each
subproject will be computed before initiation as a means to guarantee that
this subsidy remains within reasonable limits.
34.       Village Water Supply Systems.   About 63,000 inhabitants would be
provided with safe chlorinated water by 1981. This amounts to approximately
30% of the non-dispersed population under SENASA's jurisdiction and 75% of
the total population of the villages to be served. Some 65 communities
have been preselected by SENASA, who is estimating in each case the likely
investment and system operating costs, the size and nature of the villagers'
initial contribution, and the number and type of potential users. SENASA
azccsses the community's willingness and ability to establish and operate
the system, and propose justifiable subprojects for Bank approval. Final
selection criteria also include the adequacy of the community's existing
water resources and supply system, and its commitment to participate
actively in planning and building a new system, priority being given to
cost-effective locations where the per capita subsidy element would remain
within reasonable limits. Twenty subprojects have been agreed during negotia-
tions; a further 22 have been identified and will be evaluated by SENASA
during implementation before presentation for Bank approval. All sub-projects
would thus require prior approval by the Bank based on the above-mentioned
criteria. This would also apply should a community have to be replaced by one
not on the list (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
35.       Pilot Waste Disposal Systems.   The scheme would include some 4,500
tile fields and 2,000 sanitary units. Those facilities would be accessible
to some 32,000 villagers, or 50% of the beneficiaries of the water supply
component. Tools, materials, supervision, and technical assistance would be
provided through SENASA, and installation would be carried out by the benefi-
ciaries' voluntary labor with SENASA's assistance.
36.       Basic Health Education Program.   SENASA would carry out a pilot
educational and promotional program at village level aimed at stimulating
local participation in system construction, and ensuring responsible and safe
operation after completion. The program would build on SENASA's encouraging



- 11 -
recent experience with educational initiatives in individual villages. It
would include: (a) eleven courses over the four-year period on basic system
operation techniques aimed at water committee members and other responsible
officials; (b) at least one course in each village on water use practices to
housewives and school children; (c) a series of regular promotional visits by
SENASA staff; and (d) purchase of demonstration equipment and other required
materials. A consultant for this purpose would be hired not later than June
30, 1978 (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan agreement). A detailed implementation
schedule for this component, satisfactory to the Bank, would be prepared by
SENASA with his assistance and would be submitted to the Bank by December 31,
1978 (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
37.       Technical Assistance and Training Program for SENASA.   This program
would be aimed at strengthening SENASA's project execution capabilities and
meeting its expanded staff training. The technical assistance program would
include: (a) appointment of an internationally recruited consultant in project
management working under SENASA's director on matters relating to overall
project coordination, in particular civil works construction and supervision;
(b) sho!rt-term consulting services for financial management and accounting,
general administration, community organization and tariffs; and (c) short-term
consulting services in well construction, selection of drilling equipment,
design of basic health education course, and water quality monitoring and
control. To assist timely project implementation, the advisor on accounting
systemsahas been selected; other key consulting services for procurement and
the design of the health education program would be retained not later than
June 30, 1978 (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). The training
program would involve: (a) local courses for SENASA staff in water supply
planning, financial analysis, and basic construction and operational tech-
niques; and (b) foreign fellowships in hydrogeology, drilling techniques,
and community promotion.
Institutional Arrangements
38.       Of seven departments reporting to the Director of SENASA, three are
directly responsible, respectively, for engineering and design, project imple-
mentation and administration and accounts. The qualifications and experience
of the professional staff of these departments are generally satisfactory,
although their number would not be sufficient to undertake the major expansion
of SENASA's scale of operations implied by the project. Accordingly, SENASA
would present by June 30, 1978 a staffing plan comprising some 70 new appoint-
ments (construction teams, community promotion and administration) to be
appointed between January 1978 and January 1981 (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). In addition, the Government has already initiated steps to
strengthen SENASA's budget and financial administration aimed at simplifying
disbursement procedures and authorizing its director to manage funds and
payments. Furthermore, in order to enable SENASA's management to execute the
projectiwithout slowing down operations in other areas, an internationally
recruited consultant in project management with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank would be assigned to work with the Director. His terms of reference



- 12 -
and qualifications have been agreed on during negotiations and his appointment
would be a condition of effectiveness (Sections 3.04 and 6.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The consultant in project management has been selected.
39.       SENASA would conclude an agreement with the Junta (see paragraph 25)
of each of the 42 villages selected, based on standard models satisfactory to
the Bank. This agreement would require the Juntas to make a down payment of
at least 5% of the estimated investment cost. SENASA would not begin construc-
tion in any village until this payment had been received (Section 3.03(a) of
the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, the Junta would commit itself to
providing at least another 5% of system construction costs in labor, local
materials, or additional funds as appropriate (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement). However, this minimum contribution of 10% is expected to be
exceeded in many villages to meet the average target of 15%, the objective
towards which SENASA's village organizers would agree to work.
40.       SENASA would be responsible for construction of the system, includ-
ing supervision of local contractors and voluntary labor, and for delivering
the agreed number of house connections. It would also provide technical
assistance for the installation of sanitary units and tile fields through
the Juntas. The Juntas would be responsible for collecting connection charges
and water tariffs on agreed scales established and updated by SENASA, follow-
ing the formula established below as well as monthly installments for waste
disposal solutions (paragraph 42). Under the terms of the agreement with the
communities, SENASA would also prepare a program satisfactory to the Bank by
December 31, 1978 to advice and assist in system administration, maintenance
and repair (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). The systems would be
owned and managed by the communities themselves through the Juntas. Educational
and promotional activities would be the joint responsibility of SENASA and the
Juntas. These arrangements are now well established in the first villages
served by SENASA and are functioning satisfactorily.
Cost, Financing and Repayment
41.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.7 million, includ-
ing physical contingencies of US$0.8 million, and price contingencies of
US$2.2 million. In addition interest during construction amounts to US$0.9
million. Moreover, SENASA would need US$0.4 million in incremental working
capital. Community initial contributions would cover some US$1.6 million, or
15% of total project costs, with the balance of local costs, US$3.4 million,
being met by the Government. The proposed loan would cover the foreign ex-
change cost of the project, including interest during construction on the Bank
loan.
42.       SENASA will use these funds to construct and transfer the proposed
water supply and waste disposal facilities to the communities. The local
authorities benefitting from the project, in turn, will be required to set
their charges at a level sufficient to cover their operating and maintenance
expenditures, including equipment replacement expenses, as well as a portion
of investment cost. The communities will cover at least 20% (16% of investment
costs at 1977 price level) of investment cost through the initial contributions



- 13 -
and tariffs; the Bank would be able to make exceptions from this requirement -
mainly in cases of very small communities where per capita costs would be high
(Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). The balance between the initial
contribution and 20% of investment cost will be covered through tariffs and
amortized over 10-20 years at 6% interest as compared to about 4.0% which is
the weighted cost of funds made available to SENASA (Section 4.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Wherever possible, a larger portion of recovery of invest-
ments will be sought in such a way that repayments to SENASA will, on average,
provide for 25% of total investment outlays. The remainder of the investment
costs will be borne by the Government. Under this formula, monthly water and
waste disposal charges would average at present cost levels around US$3, which
represents an estimated 7% of family cash income -- as high a proportion as
can reasonably be expected given the villagers' limited income levels. This
has been the level of tariffs attained in the past with almost zero default.
In addition reductions in the standards and levels of service provided for in
the project are not advisable according to generally accepted sanitation
practices. SENASA would retain repayments from communities to assist in
financing future operations and develop its own budgeting and investment
capabilities. The Government would service the loan through increased revenues
from taxes earmarked for water supply.
43.       SENASA's sources of funds have almost doubled between 1972 and 1976
and have been drawn from (i) earmarked taxes (53%); (ii) direct government
grants (45%); and (iii) communities' repayment of principal and interest
and fees charged for maintenance services (2%). The latter is expected to
increase with time with the above-mentioned debt amortization scheme. Apart
from an initial grant to cover start-up expenses, SENASA has virtually no
resources of its own, and any unbudgeted expenditure hitherto has required
special government authorization through the Ministry of Health. The financ-
ing arrangements to be made under the project will assist SENASA in building
up investment funds to undertake future operations without undue delays.
Furthermore, the financing and repayment scheme will have an important income
redistribution effect in favor of the rural communities benefitting under the
project, as the Government will bear on average some 75% of the cost of the
program through additional revenue measures levied mainly in the urban areas.
44.       As part of its aim to strengthen the management of SENASA's opera-
tions, the Government agreed during negotiations that SENASA would adopt before
June 30, 1978, commercial accounting practices satisfactory to the Bank and
employ consultants or specialized agencies to assist in planning and installing
the system (Section 4.02 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, SENASA
will submit yearly, beginning in 1978, a report on its records and accounts
prepared by-accountants acceptable to the Bank, no later than four months
after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
45.       Contracts for well construction, materials and equipment with an
estimated cost of over US$30,000 would be awarded under international compe-
titive bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Domestic materials and



- 14 -
equipment manufacturers tendering under these procedures would be allowed a
preferential margin equal to the prevailing tariff for non-exempt imports, or
15% of the c.i.f. cost of competitive imports, whichever is lower. Contracts
under US$30,000 would also be open to foreign contractors in the unlikely
event that they would be interested and would be awarded on the basis of local
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank, provided that the aggregate
shall not exceed the equivalent of US$300,000. SENASA will agree with the
Bank by March 31, 1978 and every year thereafter on annual purchase programs
required by the Project (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over a four-year period, as
follows: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures, or 65% of the cost of locally
manufactured equipment and materials for water supply systems; (b) 80% of
expenditures on well construction; (c) 25% of expenditures on waste disposal
systems; (d) 100% of foreign expenditures on tools and equipment for SENASA;
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures on technical assistance, training, and
consulting services; and (f) 100% of interest during construction on the
proposed Bank loan. In view of the need to assure effective bulk procurement
of certain major items, disbursements against categories (a) to (c) would not
be made until SENASA has concluded agreements with the Juntas of at least 10
of the 42 preselected communities, and until an annual purchase program
including these expenditures has been agreed by the Bank (Schedule 1, Section
4 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Justification, Benefits, and Risks
A7.       Quite apart from the income redistribution effects noted above, the
expansion of water supply and waste disposal is expected to yield significant
benefits to the rural population. Together with the proposed community health
education component, this expansion of basic facilities would constitute a major
improvement in public health in areas where water-related diseases are the
major causes of mortality and morbidity, and where infant mortality is among
the highest in Latin America. Improved water supply and sewerage services
will help control water-borne diseases and, over time, beneficially affect
the productivity and incomes of the poor. While it is not possible to isolate
the effect of safe water supply and sanitation in reducing the incidence of
such diseases, doctors in individual villages recently supplied with systems
by SENASA report reductions of up to 70% in the number of cases of hepatitis
and infant diarrheal disease after installation of the system. The proposed
project could therefore be one of the most cost-effective components of the
National Health Plan. The design of the systems, given the uneven distribu-
tion and poor quality of surface water, is the minimum-cost solution for the
levels of service planned. It is expected that, when added to other infra-
structure existing in the area, the villages obtaining water supply under the
project will start to attract commercial and semi-industrial activities which
will stem the prospects for migration into the cities.
48.       The project is also designed to achieve major improvements in the
level and quality of SENASA's operations, by strengthening its financial,
technical and administrative capabilities, and enable it to undertake major
new programs. It would also reinforce and expand, through the water committee



- 15 -
system, community leadership and participation in rural development projects.
This should help in replicating eventually the projects in other parts of the
country.
49.       The main risks in project implementation are related to SENASA's
short experience in project management, the responsiveness of the communities
in making the initial contribution, and the adequacy of community operation
and maintenance of the systems. However, project size has been tailored to
maintain these risks at a reasonably low level, and adequate assistance to
SENASA has been provided to guarantee permanent support during execution. In
addition, community contributions have been estimated conservatively to pre-
vent potential shortfalls of local funds. The overall risk of not achieving
the project objectives is judged medium to low.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Bank's Articles of Agreement and the draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
51.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Disbursements for materials, equipment and well construction would not
take place until at least ten contracts have been signed between SENASA and
the local Juntas and before an annual purchase program has been agreed with
the Bank including such expenditures (Schedule 1, Section 4 (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The following additional condition of effectiveness has been
included: that thc consultant for project management has been hired by SENASA,
as referred to in paragraph 38 above.
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 21, 1977






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
PARAGUAY            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 --------------------------- -------------------
______________P PARAGUAY                                                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      406.8                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     159.7                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          HONDURAS       EL SALVADOR    COSTA RICA ***
                                   ---------
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     230.0*    360.0*    640. 0Wa            250.0 *    300.0       580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            1.7        2.2        2.6 /a            2.5         3.4         1.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SOUARE KM.                        4.0       6.0        6.0O/a            22.0       160.0        34.0
PER sQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        12.0      14.0       16. 0°             89.0      275 0         93.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         44.7      41.8       32.8               51.5        46.1        41.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          14.7       10.8       8.9               19.1        14.3         8.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        90.7      93.8       94.0                 ..        66.6       62.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       54.4      59.0       62.0               49.4          *-       66.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                .-        3.2       3.2                3.4          ..         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.2**     2.5**      2.7**              2.7 1       3.S /a      3.4
URBAN                                 2.7        2.8       3.7                7.9         3.7         5.2 Ia
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          34.8       35.7      37.4               32.0        39.0        36.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       4529 /a   46.4       44. 7 b            46.7        47.5        47.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                       50.2 7    50.4       51.3 b             50.9        49.4       49.3
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.9 71     3.2       4.0 71             2.4         3.1         3.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.0 /a    1.0       0 9/b              1.0         1.0         1.0
ECONoMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.?        1.6       1.5:T              1.5 /b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..      15.9               20.7          *         40.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             .-         .-        ..                 ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          690.0     700.0      810.0              800.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (x)         55.0      53.0       49.0               65.0
UNEMPLOYED ({ OF LABOR FORCE)             .-        ..       3.5                8.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              .       30.0         *-               28.0 /c
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              a       62.0         .6. 60 6 7
LOWEST  20X OF HOUSEHOLDS              .-       4.0         ..                2. 5 
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              .S .-                .-                8.4 7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
I OWNED BY TOP 10X OF OWNERS              ..        ..        ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..         .                             ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                        2340.0/a  2120.0             3630.0 /d   3920.0      1620.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..    2310.0    2090.0                          930:0 /b   1680.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED               ..     620.0     610.0 /b           560.0       500.0       250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)        112.0      121.0     119.0               96.0        87.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              76 0      74.0       73.0 /d            58.0        43.0        63.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         40o0/b    41.0         ..               25.o        10.0        35.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..       6.9       3.2 Ie             10.0       11.1         4.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        8-0     109.0      108.0               94.0        73.0      110.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     L.U        17.0      19.0               12.0        22.0        28.0
'EARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0      12.0       12.0               12.0        12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(x OF SECONDARY)                      7.0        6.0        .                18.0        31.0        10.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                74.0 /     79.0      01.0                  ..       60.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                2.8 /a,d
OCCUPIED OWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      94.0 ./a  89. d      87.0 /f               X.       84.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL OWELLINGS)                 13.0 L       ..        ..                  ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X).2 
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         83.0       71.0      66.0                57.0       85.0        72.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           .2.0       7.0       7.0 /e              5.0       10.0        23.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           55.0       91.0      106.0              127.0      191.0       595.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.7        1.8        1.8                1.1        :.7         6.4
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AM=I
Page 2 of I, pages
Unlses otherwise. ncted, data for i96(3 refer to any year betwee 1959 and 1961, for 1970 bet,ceen 1968 end 1970. and for Most Rscent gatieats beL.6en
1973 and 1975.
0  (RP pe  ..pite based on World Bank Atlas athodol.gf (197L-76 basis).
Due to exigretiw of ParaguajesOto neighboring countries (Argentina and Brazil) ppuplSation growth rate is lower than the rate of natural inoroace.
n.Costa Rica haa been selected as an objective cowntay since it has eleilRkr resour-ce bagse and population esie as Paraguay and has attained such
higher standards of social developsent and ecOnandc growth.
PA&AGAX          196     /a  1962;     /b  1961-631    /.   Prior to 1965;    /d  Totsa, urban and mrurl.
1 970   /a  Coverage of data unkalon       /b  Prerentage of Po p,lation.
"ERT RgSIT RSTIMATh      La  1976;     /b  1972;    A   Ratio of popUlation under 15 And 65 sand over to total labor force;       /d  1969-
71 average;     /o  1971;    If  Percectags of population.
HONDU)RAS        1970    /a  LArgely due to emdgmatioll of EL Sal,adorean   residents in Honduras, population growth rate is loewsr than the rate of
natural increase;     A, Ptio of population under 15 end 65 and -ovr to total labor forele          Le  1967-68, population;
/d Registered, not ell practicing in the country.
EL. SA6LVADOR    1 970   A   Due to repatriation of Balvadoreane fro. Honduras population growth rate is higher than the rate of naturalinrae
/b Including assistant nurses.
COSTA RICAL      1970    /a  1963-70.
R9. October 27, 1977
DEpOITI0ON OF SOCIAL INDIICATORS
IonS urea (thou in2)                                            ~~~~~~~~~~Porul.tLon c ptooul.too rreo. - Population diotd.d by ocaoho  of practitlg
Total  T-Its  ourf-c arcs -npr15100 lond or.s sod i.land ..tera.                        -l. end finale grad..at  u nu..se,  t-elnd" or .rrtftad-" nurs., -nd
Agri,  M-ot    --too  -arin-  of orctrleras used tanporarily or p-re-                   susilisry pare onns I  ith trai.iof Or coporlian-s
.sotly f-r crops, p-sure.. oorket h kitoh.n garden. or to Ito fallow                PsPu1ation Par h.Pitre1 hod - Poputatica, divIded by cinbor of hoePftel bad.
-paisl ol in Public and pri-a. oco.r. -1 so  eeed      h..ptr-1 and
GNP Pocr L.at.t (USO)) - GNP Par capita .atl-so  occurrentt norkt Pric-e,               r-habilit.toa canton . -ioudes curetog hoos, sod ost.Ishlishact  for
coloulatod by -oo  covr  -n thcd es World Reck atis. (1973-75 bests),                 cuctodial sod pr--itt- cars.
1960. 1970 cod 1975 doto.                                                           Per cacitr supply of caoi,(% Of raq.1resente     - Csputud foes eosrgy
equi-1-ec  of net food oupplisa ev-ilabl. to -oonry Par -spits Per d.y.
Pocul.ciot nod Ittal otatiatit                                                          .ooilable cupplise , -priec dt-,titl  productIon , sporre le.s aponte, end
POcul.tion (old-year nillion)   us of July fir.t:  if one so-ilabic, s-rags             hbsrg.. in atoob; net aoPP1iee e-cluda anlo-l fend, coeds, quantIties u..d
of two eod-ycc ..t.  alc.   1 '60, 1918 sod 1975 data.                                In food p,oceesig and loses. to di.,trbtburoo  requinsutnts wee  etase
by FAO bo...d an phyctilosi-Iet oeda for ..-Io  -ittety and h..ith -onid-
P.nulstban de. ty     o i 50r,  in.r   . od-yea  population Per squats kiloatar         cr100 eevroints    tanpr-ture   body - ight, * s. aed ... diatributi_n Of
(100 hoororns) of rural eras.                                   ~~~~~pcpulatioo  and el11viog 101 for waste  rhuaodlvl
Popolactondonotty-'P-r sQgr -I of sorbc. land - Cenputed ae obov     for              Par coPEtt nouPoly of crotaio (Sresm Par day) - Plotate coatet of Par capit.
oglicu1turl1 lmod only.                                                               oat suPPly Of food pen day; car supply of food is defined as abs.. requtre-
nsto for all countries sst.bltahad by USDA Eesonic Basearob ServIce,
VItal etcttta                                                                            roid   ofo  a alinton slo    sOf 60 gre. of tota    p-oeie par day, and
Crude birth rate par thou.and. soro-anual lIne birth. pe,rthauseod Of                   20 ors    f    -cho  sod Poles Prottlei, of which 10 gram should be anjeal
old-y-s popu1ottoc; leo-year arIt9tic avsr.ga     audi0g io 1960 end 1970,            proteto; thosat.  tdard. .r- Iloe  thao thoae of 75 grna of total Prot.in
and fir-y-o -verego ending In 1975 for onet racet cotinate.                           sod 23 gara of e.oIna  Prctitn as so -vesg for the world, propseed by FAO
Crude death race Par thousand. ,  ra   - Annusl deaths per thousend Of itd-yaar         Ito the Third World Food aunup.
population; tao-year orithoe tic earages ..dicg io 1960 aod 1970 end fiv-           Par capita pr.tttit ..pply fr-e ..o-Is and sples - Petotoi uopply of food
tyea  aoreasoadiog iv 1975 for onet re..eot aetinate.                                  d.rtvsd fr- nisolus  sod puleca in ares  Per day
Infan  =   .sltry rtor  (Ithou) -  -o1e daiths of tefacta uod-t -n yost of age        Death rtac  f(/hou( aces 1-4 - Anou-I deatha Per thousand In oga group 1-A
per th-.saad lIve births.                                                             years, to  hitldre. to thi, ag, group; eusgeeted ae an Indic-tor Of
Life sPoacteucy or birth (yr.) - A-eragS Q,,sbr of ysare of life rtainaing or           salnutrtlion.
birth, usualy five-yost averages ending to, 1968, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
to  cunrIs                                                                          Education
Groot raptodycti.. rate -  vaor.g. otbhr of lIve daughters a  oa    ill b...           Adjusted srlotratio .       onr shool - KEr.ilaset Of all gage     us pe-
to her -cue   roprodu-tiva Pariod if eke coperiocoa  preset ago-specific              nestage of patury scol-g      pepuletlu_  ieudse child,ne aged 6-11 yearn
fcrltiliry ratse, usually fiv-y-s avsrcga   ending i.e 1960. 1970 and 1975            but adjoetnd for different 1.ogthe of priasny ad ...tiul; for -ootrls with
for developing coutnrise.                                                              siv-rsI sd-ctsonto, enrolleot nay excee.d IOOX alcs oasa pupill are hal
PoPulatIca grooth nets (%) - total - Conpood aonuaI growth rata   Of old-pact           or ahoy. the officil1 echool age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                        Adjusted enrollsoet rotim  - ecoodarr school - Csputad .e   bove, -sondary
Ppoplation oroth rota fti - urbac - Ceputed liko growth rot. of total                   education requirt  at Ibee.t four year. Of spprv.d Prilesy itraiuctie..
population; ditfersot d.fieittlo  of urban eras  ny affect coPer-btlity of            provide  g .n.trl, v-ctional or reanhar t,ainieg tseat,ectiona for popile
daaaogoorotn.                                                                 of 12 to 17 pears Of age; c-rr.aspod.nts -ouns   era geara11y exctodd
Urbn poultin ftOf total) - Ratio of urban to total populatIon; different               leone of scholing provIded (firet and escod leve.) - local yoare Of
daficiti-n of urban are. my affect ounparability of date     soug cncuntrlia.         achooling; at e..nudaty l.-l *   -ntionel  -tosrutia. nay ha partialty or
OmPletely secluded.
ess atruoture foar-ant) - Cbtldre. (0-14 years), woking-age (15-64 year.),            Vocattocal anerlln    t  of Icodey     - Vattio.ral ixatstiata includ.
and reirad  65 yers so  over asP-antages of aid-year population.               t-htinirl, ledaca    rncOe    Progress oUch operate Indpapndsetly an a
ARe deodeRy-_c _ratIo - Ratio of POpulation u.d.r 15 cod 65 and ove  to these            daparferta of secondary i,tairutou,s.
of aga0 15 through i64.                                                             Adult lit.r..y rats MI  - Literate adults (able to red .ed wits) aa Per-
XIMMoic dABIdanoy rati    - Patio of population under 15 and 65 cod over tcc. teerge of Ctota            adult Popul.lati  aged 11 years and over.
thel Plabor foce onae grou      of1-6   oa
Pettyelanica -accetore  otasativ. thou) - Cutoulati-s conkr of ....eptore   Haa Inggg,
of birth-notnnrl devices uoder  uspitces of eatianal tfutly Placieg progree          Pereonae Per roe (urbac) - Anerag. ecobr of Peteon  per roe in Occupied
sic 'tcPtion.cuetional dweIliags in urbanaea                                                                            doellIngs axold. no-paeabat
PFsily p anIso - uare It of nrried wa)        - Prnateges of narriad    -a  of           etru.tursa and onanopied parts.
child-beaing ag. (15-4 years) ebo use bIrth-ctrol devices to oIl earned            OccPIed dwe11lxs  without stead water (X) - Occupied co_esi_cl dellings
ecoan L. an age group.                                                                to urban aed rurl1 area  wIthout mnaid  or outalds piped water fecilitia_
a.pl.y-.t                                                                          "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a erataeo al aopiad doslltge
Honleynet                                                     Acosee ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to letrciy  t o  l  .aloe  ovsinel dee11lsa wish
Toaf  ao    ore    huad       9-tKanatoa11y .cti-a Pereot, icotudiag aend               sientriitty in lIinig quarters a. Parn...t of total dwelliege Ic urbac and
fovoecand onap0ayd but aslnding housewive, tudenta, etc.; dafinitioos             ruralaras
In vrlariu  coutries are cot coapar-bla                                              Rural d-elligx connettd to electrIitry   C)   - Cutsd aa shoe   f on rural
Laker force in alnt-cture i)-Agritultura1 labor force (J. faminag, forsestry,            doetlinge only.
tuoragnsd fiahie) as Pertestage of total labor force.
_eaclne  ft of lab- or as.)  U-Ilsplapd er auually def teed as Perona who          cosoaoubtbon
are able and willing to taks aJob, oat of . job ton a given dey, retained out        Radio -aciv-c   (Per thou POP) - All types of rcie.for radio broado-te
o"fa job, and aseakieg.-rk f Or a ePnifled delente Period acot exceeding ca            to g.enate  public Pen thousan  of PoPulatimn; sanidca -sIoeuacdreivs
sek; say cot ha tnpareble betwe    countries due to different defititia              Lo nutrisa and i. year. ete    regi.tratIo  of nei.Sts ate o a s I ffect;
of   -eplayed and eanroc of data. e.g., -plsyst Office atatitetio    e.-PI.            dot. far re.cat Year.  y set he  -par.bl. Ji-. Sot reuntrie aboished
surteys, .cpcsleorp      I.Y tspoan  Ixa.--os                                         lIf.a   g.
boLam di.stnitbu  -a  - Pernat.ge of private inca  (both J.cs     ndkn)Ieeta                      eih    pnn;eclds          boaca     h   es adetlic.anstin
received by nioheet 5t, rioheet 201, POcrast 201. aed poorest 401 of hous-             vehi.ti..
holds.                                                                               Electricity fk,d/vr Par --P) - Annua cacmpitoca of industrial, omaroal.j
Dtatibuton  f led esareip -Panuo-S-- of land saesd by wesithicet 101           b.eed on Production data. without alanefar 1_sao I. grids but show-
end pooret 10 sof ladowe.                                                              ing far Ieporte end exponta of eletricity.
B-Ith -d N.tritt-                                                H-gr~~~~~~~~~Seeei.t (ba/yr pet cap) - pa r "ePi  Ima  easoeptioe in bibogras
Pegu1aties Par ehveioiaa - POPuIatite  divIded by cebar of practicing                    misdfa           -   t                      e-.o
Physicians qualified fra  a aedioal enhol at -nivraity icosl



ANNEX 1 
Page 3 of 4
PARAGUAY - EGUNOMIC EEVRLOPNENT DATA,
(milli."c of US$)
A.t..1                   EeC.                Pr-iect.d                 1968-     1973-     1976-
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                   1973     1975     1976          1977         1978     1979      1981f        1973      1976       1981           1973       1976      1981
Ceect..t 1972 Pri- i. Milli... US$                           A-er.ge A-Ica  Groth Rote.               A. Porc...t of GOY
Gra.e D-.teel   Pradact ( ...l.di.g lt.ip.)       829.4     943.2   1014.1        1090.2       1170.8   1270.3    1481.7          5.4        6.9       7.9            99.2     101.0     101.1
GoC"   . Reti. Prod..t* (L.eladieg Itaip.).L/       -       985.8   1070.3        1193.6       1274.5   1373.5    1583.6                     8.9       8.1                     101.1     101.2
G.ea free Term. of Trade                            7.0      -2.5    -10.5         .12.0        -11.9    -13.1     -14.1                                                *g      -1.0       -1.1
Gala. free Teaaof Tra de0                                    - 1.6   -11.5         -14.6        -14.3    -15.8     -16.6                                                        -1.1      -1.2
free. Reamatia lecome                   ~~~834.4   9407    1003.6       1078.2        1158.9   1257.2   1467.6           5.4       6.3        7.9          100.0      100.0     100.0
Cre.. Domati. Ie-o-e                                        94.2    1058.8        1179.0       1260.2   1358.0    1567.0                     8.2       8.1                     100.0     100
Omperte (+ NFS).                                  151.2     194.7    194.8         221.1        271.9    311.1     379.2          0.1        8.8      14.2            18.0      19.4      25.3
Oetp-tt (+ NFS)"                                    -       221.5    227.5         286.1        334.0    373.0    4.40.2                    14.6      14.1                      21.5      27.8
Eaporta( (potcpiy)144.3                                     141.5    129.1         175.9        169.2    190.9     246.2          5.6       .3.7      13.8            17 3      12.9      15.9
Eaecrte (Imeert eoeaety)*                              149.2    141.7        197.3         191.1    212.7    267.6                    -0.6       13.5          ____        13.4      16.3
Cecearce lap                          ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~6.9  53.2  65.7  45.2    102.7    120.2     133.0                                               0.8       6.5        9.4
Reer Gap                                       -         72.3     85.8         88.6        142.9     160.3    172.6                                                         8.1       11.5
Ceeaemprlee                                       6 79.4    765.6    784.8         805.9        911.4    991.3    1150.3          4.3       4.9        7.9            81.2      78,2       78.7
Coeaamptlee"                                        -       785.6    803.9         847.3        949.2   1029.0    1187.4                     5.8       8.1                      75.9      75.8
ilevetmeet                                        163.8     228.3    284.5         317.5        350.2    386.1     450.3          5.6       20.0       9.6            19.5      28.3       30.7
IMF.pa                                                       42.6     56.2         102.8        1003.7   1803.2    101.9                              12.6                       5.3        7.0
Iaeeetmeee*  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                   270.9    3.40. 7      420.3         453.9    489.3    552.2                    27.5       10.2                      32.2      35.7
Docetle Sa-   ge~                                 150.0     175.1    218.8         272.3        247.5    265.9     317.3         13.2       13.3       7.7            17.9      21.8       21.3
Demetie S.vlog"                                     -       198.6    254.9         331.7        311.0    329.0     379.6i                              8.3                      24.1      24.2
MERCHANDRISE TLA0E                                                     Aeaue  DaCe at Curreet Fric,                                                                      Ae Percen.t of Total
Iteport.
Food                                              5.3       8.       4.           17.3         20.7     26.9     36.9          -7.5      38.5       21.5            3.5        4.7       4.6
Othe    eemrgoe1.                                          39.6     33.4           9.          66.2     81.3     113.6         11.5      22.0       27.5            12.0      11.0      14.2
Iaeer,eedlaee 8eode               28.6     ~~~~~    ~~~~~         ~~39.3  36.2  34.0  45.2  54.9  75.11          9.0       8.        13.7           18.7       12.0       9.4
Poela ecd lohrlc.ote               6.8      ~~~~~    ~~~~~        ~~38.4  37.9  39.8  50.4  59.0   79.           7.2       78.4      15.9             .4       12.5        99
CapItal goe.de                                  45.7       59.4    108.3         130.0        178.2    225.8     324.7         19.4      33.5       24.5           2/9 . 8    33.8      490.97
Uer-gi.te-d    ep-rta                           48_        84.3     72.8          82.8        106.3    123.5     168.7         14.0      14.3       18.3           31.6       24.0      21.1
Tota1 carh-ndiee                                153.2     269.8    502.9        353.8         469.0    573.4    798.1          11.7      25.5       21.3          100.0      100.8     100.0
E.perta
good                                             11.8      27.8     12.1          17.6         18.2     22.0      32.6          8.3       0.6       21.5             7.6       5.6      15.8
Beef                                             90.8      32.2     21.0          39.4         40.2     47.7     63.7          24.6     -200 0      25.0           26.3        9.0      11.2
Seyheo..                                         12.2      19.1     34.1         52.7          60.0     79.8    145.0          89.4      40.5       33.5            7.9       15.9      25.6
Cottee                                           11.6      20.1     34.6         43.1          42.8     50.4      71.5         38.2      44.0       15.6            7.5       16.1      12.6
Other ceemdlttie                                 50.5      77.1     79.5         109.2        110.1    129.5     178.9         16.8      16.3       17.6           32.6       32.0      31.6
Uoreeiatered ..porta                             28.1      41.0    3_3.3         43.2          45.6     53.8     74.66         63.5       5.8       17.5           18.1       15.6      13.2
Total  -erhaediae                               155.0     217.3    214.6         305.2        316.9    383.2    566.3          25.1      11.4       21.4          000.0      100.0     100.0
Mrcha-diee Trade Iedicea (Vo1am)                                                 1972 - 100
tEpo.rt                                         129.6     175.2    175.1         191.6        206.6    221.8     256.4                   10.5        7.9
tEpert"                                           -       174.9    174.1         189.:2       204.7    219.9     254.5
Iloprt                                          133.6     178 3    189.4         204.7        221.1    237.0     271.1                   02.3        7.2
Import"                                           -       176.8    188.2         203.2        220.0    236.0    270.3
Teme. of Tra,de,                                 97.0      98.3     92.4          93.6         93.4     93.6      94.6
Te.e   f Trde                                     -        98.9     92.5          92.9         92.0     93.2     94.2
SHARES OP GDP BY SECTOR (en. ltaleel                          Ae-1a Rota at 1972 Price. aed tEcheege Rtee                        Av.r... A-1a Groeth Rote-              Ae Percen t of Tote1
Agrleclt re                                     288.0     326.9    343.1         369.4        397.2    435.6     505.3          4.9        6.0       8.0            34.7      33 8      34.1
lad.etry and Mninlg                             158.8     177.5    189.2        208.5         229.4    262.0    315.2           6.3       6.0       10.7           19.2       18.7      21.3
Sarni...                                        382.5     430.:8   481.8        51.           544.2    572.7    661.2           5.4       8.0        6.5           46.1       47.5      44,
Tot.1                                           829.3     943.2   1014.1       1090.2        1170.8   1270.3   1481.7           5.4        6.9       7.9          100.0      100.1     100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                      1973 - 76                                     1976 - 80
Average ICOR                                              3.5                                            3.7
ImPo rt Eleetioity                                        1.3                                           1.8
Rlrgi.al Do,eetic Senige Rote                             0.4                                           0.
M_rgien1 Notin.a. Ienviga Rate                            0.3                                           0.'2
CENTYRAL GOVERNMENT                                                                                        RETAIL 00
CURRENT EXPENRITUEO DETAILS                               Act..1                   REt.          PrOj.      PUBLIC SECTOR                                     1977-81
(A. Z4 Total Corret REp-d.                        1974       1975     1976          1977         1980      INIVERS3IER  PROGRAM         US$ olIlic.e                         % of Tota
Gcd   :aed Oem-iee                                22.7       23.9     22.0          23.8         25.0       Iererooe412.8                                                       53.7
Slgeod Salrlee                                    43.2       44.6     45.6          42.8         47.0       Pr-d-cti- Sartere               136.9                                17 8
Tracefer Paya,eta                                 19.6       21.4     16.3          18.8         07.0       SocIal Beetor-                  138.6                               180.
Other                                             14.5       10.0     16.1          15.4         11.0       Geecral Servi...                 80.5                                10.5
Tart1 Correct Eapeadienree                       100.0      100.0    100.0         100.0        180.0       Total lepeeditur.               768.8                              100.0
1PU0LIC F1982CE (Cerreat Fri ...                                                                           FINAONCING
(Ceetra1 Goveremet)
C.erret Re...lpte                              129.1      042.2    152.7         174.8        263.8         Public Soctor Eavi.g.         495.5                               64.4   2/
eret Emceevdit...                          100.6       117.5    127.4         142.9        A._1         Eaterea1 PFia-ig               365.0                               47.4   -
RadgetarrH   S iveg                             28.5       24.9     25.3          31.9         52.0         Ieterol Rerreeig              -90.7                              -11.8
Teta1 Pinan..ing              768.8                               100.0
LORFRCE AND                                              eoamleaIly ActIve P.polati.97                                                    Eoploymet Sector Shoree 
=    4PLYM.  BY  ECTR                                           Ret.        Pr0          L962-78       0972- 76       197-80                      (In: percetagra)
1962        1972         1974        1976        1980       G_eah Rate    Cr-ath Rat     Or_tth Rat      1962       1972      1974      1976       1980
Agrien1tnre               321,333      372,844     425.633     451,554      561.770       1.7           6.3            5.6          56.0       52.0      52.1       52.4      53.0
led.etry                  107,588     141,454      162,974     168,474     233.188        111           6.0            8.5          18.8       19.6      20.0      20.5       22.0
Service                   143.966     203.354      227~67      242 .884     264.987       3.9           6_1            2_2          25.1       28.4      27.9       27.1      25 
aT.LS                     572.887     718,652      816,224     862,912    1.059.995       2.35          6.3            5.3         100.0      100.0     000.0      150.0     500 0
*/Oldi,,to, that the,dIrec t,effeta. of ltaip. are ieeleded.
2/Aea    ahaaInIdIrec         Catrocta.tre.                                                                                                                       Octohar 31, 1977



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
BALANC  OF PAYMENTS_ EXERA      ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Actual                       Est.                      Projected
1973          1975          1976          1977          1978         1979          1981
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Imports of Goods and NFS                            187.0         391.6         428.2         581.2         734.9         980.3        1189.7
Itatpu                                                          (44.4)        (59.3)      (128.7)       (133.7)       (143.1)       (161.7)
All others                                       (187.0)       (347.2)       (368.9)       (452.5)       (601.2)       (737.2)      (1028.0)
Exports of Goods and NFS                            178.5         263.7         266.7         401.2         420.4         501.9         723.4
ltaspu                                                          (11.4)        (22.3)        (41.1)        (46.3)        (49.5)        (55*9)
All others                                        (178.5)      (252.3)       (244.4)       (360.1)       (374.1)       (452.4)       (667.5)
Balance of Goods and NFS                              -8.5       -127.9        -161.5        -180.0        -314.5        -378.4        -466.3
Itaips                                                         (-33.0)       (-37.0)       (-87.6)        -87.4        (-93.6)     (-105.8)
All others                                         (-8.5)      (-94.9)      (-124.5)       (-92.4)      (-227.1)      (-284.8)      (-360.5)
Net Factor payments                                 -11.0         -59.3         -37.4         -43.9         -72.2         -98.5        -165.5
Investment Income                                (-11.0)       (-53.5)        -31.7         -41.4         -65.1         -90.9       -154.8
Itaipu                                                       (-39.5)       (-15.6)       (-30.1)       (-49.8)       (-70.9)     (-117.3)
All others                                     (-11.0)       (.14.0)       (-16.1)       (-11.3)       (-15.3)       (-20.0)       (137.5)
Labor Services (Itaips)                                          -5.8          -5.7          -2.5          -7.1          -7.6          -8.7
Net Transfers                                         5.7          14.0           4.5           5.0           8.0           9.1          11.7
Correct Account Balance                              -13.8       -173.2        '194.4        -218.9        -378.7        -478          -618.1
(Itaipo)                                                   &-78.3)       (-58.3)     (-120.2)      (-144.3)      (-172.1)      (-231.8)
Net Private Direct Investment                          8.8         37.7          39.4          34.4          48.9          55.5          71.5
Itroips land purchases                                          (-0.4)        (-1.2)         (2.3)(-()()
All others                                          (8.8)       (38.1)        (40.6)        (32.1)        (48.9)        (55.5)        (71.5)
Itaip. and Private Medium- and Long-tern
Capital (ner)                                      13.1         110.4         105.3         242.5         281.0         318.6         396.1
Itaipo                                                          (99.4)        (88.4)       (228.8)       (261.3)       (297.3)       (373.2)
All others                                         (13.1)       (11.0)        (16.9)        (13.7)        (19.7)        (21.3)        (24.9)
Disbursements                                        15.2         114.4         114.1         232.0         291.3         329.7         411.0
Itaipu                                                          (99.4)        (88.4)       (228.8)       (261.3)       (297.3)       (373.2)
All others                                         (15.2)       (15.0)        (25.7)        (23.2)        (30.0)        (32.4)        (37.8)
hAmortization                                         -2.1          -4.0         -8.8          -9.5         -10.3         -11.1         -12.9
I taipc                                                             )()(
All others                                         (-2.1)       (-4.0)        (-8.8)        F-9.5)       (-10.3)       (-11.1)       (-12.9)
Other net long-tern capital                            0.5          16.4          29.2         20.6          28.7          32.6          42.0
Trade credits and exchange holdings                   12.9        -34.7          21.3          -8.1          -8.7          -9.4         -11.0
Itarpu                                                          (-28.8)       (28.8)(-()()()
All others                                         (12.9)        (-5.9)       (-7.5)         -8.1         (-8.7)        (-9.4)       (-11.0)
Bublic Medium and Long-tern Capital (net)              5.7          78.0         50.1          49.5          78.5         116.2         157.5
Itaipu                                                          (50.5)         (3.0)         (3.2)         (3.4)         (3.6)         (4.0)
All other                                           (5.7)       (27.5)         (47.1)       (46.3)        (75.1)       (112.6)       (153.5)
Disbursements                                         15.4         90.7          (61.9)        74.7         111.0         155.8         216.1
Ita-pu (initial capital)                                        (50.5)         (3.0)         (3.2)         (3.4)         (3.6)         (4.0)
All others                                         (15.4)        (40.2)        (58.9)       (71.5)       (107.6)       (152.2)       (212.1)
Amortication                                          -9.7         -12.7          11.8        -25.2         -32.5         -39.6         -58.6
All others                                         (-9.7)       (-12.7)      (-11.8)        -25.2        (-32.3)       (-39.6)       (-58.6)
Mold-ngs of guaranies asd errors and
omissions                                             -12.3          -4.1          -             ----
Change in reserves (-= incrkase)                       -14.9         -30.5         -50.9       -120.0         -49.7         -45.7         -40.0
Actual                                                                                             Actual
1973       1975      1976                                                                 197-3         1975          1976
GRANT AND LOAN COMITMIYENTS                                                      DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public M&LT Loms                                         ~   ~~~~~~~~~~Public Debt Out. 6 Disbursed   133.7         174.3         221.5
IBRD                             -          -        12.0                      Interest on Public Debt                    5.2           7.0           7.3
100.                             -         4.0       4.0                       Repayments on Public Debt                 10.2          13.9          11.8
1DB                              -        29.0       0.0                       Total Public Debt Service                 15.4          20.9          19.1
Governments                    30.6       44.9       8.5
Suppliers                       1.3         .6        2.7                    Burden on Expor,t Earnings (.
Financial Institutions          5.9        3.6        2.7
Total Public MOLT Loans          4'2.8      82.1       29.-9                     Public Debt Service                        8.6           7.9           7.2
Tern Structure of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding                        Commsitments
on Dec. 31. 1976
Average Interest ()4.8                                   3.8           6.7
Disbursed                                          Average Maturity (years)                  16.2          26.2          17.6
Only                 Percent                     Average Grace (years)                      4.2           6.5           3.9
EXTERNAL DEBT                                                ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Grant Element (%)            31.5         46.0          21.0
IBRD Debt Out. 4 Disbursed                  12.8          17.6          21.7
World Sank                        21.7                  9.8                          as 7, Public Debt 04D                  9.6          10.1           9.8
IDA                              28.7                  13.0                          as 7. Public Debt Service              7.1           8.6          10.5
Other Multilateral               16.0                   7.2
Governsments                    100.7                  45.5                    IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed                   25.6          26.3          28.7
Suppliers                        30.7                  13.9                      cas % of Public Debt DOD                  19.2          15.1          13.0
Financial Institutions           23.6                 10.7                          as % Public Debt Service                2.6           1.4           2.1
Total Public MOLT Debt          221.5                 100.0
not applicable                           e staff estimate
nor available                            -nil er negligible
nor available separately                --less than hslf the
but included in total                      smallest unit shown5                                                                    October 31, 1977
1/The Itaipu capital inflows included in this classification refer to disbursement of funds by the Itaipu Binationa1 Entity to finance purchases
of goods and services accruing to Paraguay. Under the terms of the treaty, debts incurred by the Binational Entity during constructuon are
guaranteed by Brazil and do not forn part of Paraguay's public debt. The debt of the Binatronal Entity will be serviced thlough the sale of
electricitY as its price will reflect the costs of amortization and interest.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (September 30, 1977)
---   (US$ million)-------
Loan or                                                  Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower        Purpose              Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Six loans and four credits fully disbursed                 21.8   25.7 1/       -
347          1972    Paraguay    Secondary Education         -    5.1        1.9
1037          1974    Paraguay   Livestock IV              10.0      -        3.3
509          1974    Paraguay    Small Farmer Credit and
Rural Development          -   11.0       7.3
1059          1974    Paraguay   Highways IV               14.5      -        9.3
587          1975    Paraguay    Preinvestment Studies       -    4.0        3.6
1252          1976    Paraguay    Vocational Training       4.0      -        3.9
1346/667      1976    Paraguay   Rural Education            8.0    4.0       12.0
1418          1977    Paraguay   Rural Development II      22.0      -       22.0
1419          1977    Paraguay   Industrial Credit         10.0      -       10.0
Total (net of cancellations)                 90.3   45.5
of which has been repaid                    7.3    0.8
Total now outstanding                        83.0   49.0
Amount sold                       1.3         1.0
of which has been repaid        0.3
Total now held by Bank/IDA                   82.0   49.0
Total undisbursed                                              73.3
/1   Includes exchange adjustment.
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - September 30, 1977
Type of                  (Amount in US$ million)
Year      Obligor             Business                Loan    Equity     Total
1974    FINAP, S.A.      Wood Processing               4.4       1.0      5.4
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                         4.4      1.0       5.4
Total undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 347-PA First Education Project, US$5.1 million, December 22, 1972;
(Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979).
Project implementation is proceeding in a satisfactory manner.
Construction of the first-phase schools is completed and equipment and furni-
ture are being installed. Two project items, whose phasing will be delayed
to facilitate the provision of local funds, will be completed eight months
later than originally scheduled but the project is expected to be completed
by the original closing date of December 31, 1979. Total project cost is
estimated to exceed the appraisal evaluation by about 20% but no difficulties
are foreseen by the Government in providing the required counterpart funds.
Loan 1037-PA    Fourth Livestock Project, US$10.0 million, September 6, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: February 21, 1975; Closing Date:
February 28, 1979).
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory despite the
deterioration in the beef export market. The total number of subloans made to
ranchers/farmers has surpassed appraisal estimates for the first year.
Credit 509-PA Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project, US$11.0
million, September 6, 1974; (Date of Effectiveness: April 14,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979).
Project execution, on the whole, has been satisfactory. Agri-
cultural credit, which is the main component of the project, is being success-
fully implemented except that the institutional improvements have fallen short
of the results envisaged during appraisal. The project has encountered cost
overruns in the civil works component because of rapidly increasing construc-
tion costs. The Government and IDA have reached agreement on a plan of action
to resolve the cost overrun problem.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan '1059-PA   Fourth Highway Project, US$14.5 million, December 12, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979).
Construction works on the two project roads are being carried
out by two joint ventures of Japan-Paraguay and Argentina-Paraguay firms.
Works on the two contracts are behind schedule, mainly because of insufficient
equipment and poor management, but corrective measures are being taken. Pro-
gress on one of the roads is about 22%, instead of the scheduled 59%, and on
the other road it is 14%, compared to 45% originally scheduled -- a combined
delay of about seven months. The roads are expected to be completed in
February and October 1978, respectively. The two consulting firms engaged
for assistance in highway maintenance and in transport planning are at work;
the draft preliminary report on maintenance needs has been completed and
reviewed by the Bank.
Credit 587-PA Preinvestment Studies Project, US$4.0 million, October 17, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980).
The credit is encountering initial start-up difficulties of
processing subproject and contractors' payment applications on a timely basis.
Technical assistance support is also behind schedule--the technical assistance
team envisaged during appraisal was completed in March 1977. Government has
agreed to take appropriate measures to expedite the Preinvestment Fund oper-
ations.
Loan 1252-T-PA Vocational Training Project, US$4.0 million, May 13, 1976;
(Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980).
The loan became effective on August 26, 1976. At this stage,
no difficulty is foreseen in completing the project by the closing date of
June 30, 1980. Total project cost is estimated to exceed the appraisal eval-
uation by about 3% and counterpart funds are available for 1977 calendar year.
Loan 1346/      Third Education Project, US$4.0 million Credit and US$8.0
Credit 667-PA million Loan, December 22, 1976; (Date of Effectiveness:
March 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981).
The Loan and Credit Agreements became effective on March 4,
1977. The project is expected to proceed without major problems.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1418-PA    Second Rural Development Project, US$22.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981).
This loan has not yet become effective.
Loan 1419-PA    Industrial Credit Project, US$10.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982).
This loan has not yet become effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PARAGUAY
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: fifteen months (October 1975-
December 1976)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:   Servicio Nacional de Saneamiento
Ambiental (SENASA)
(c) First presentation to Bank: April 1976
(d) Date of First Mission to review project: August 1976
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: January 24, 1977
(f) Completion of negotiations: September 30, 1977
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1978
,ection II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Sub-projects will be submitted for Bank approval after evaluation
by SENASA (paragraph 34).
(b) The Borrower would employ within SENASA consultants in financial
management and accounting, in procurement and in general administ-
ration (para. 37).
(c) The Borrower would employ within SENASA a consultant by June 30,
1.978 to prepare an education and promotional program in basic public
health. A detailed implementation schedule for this program would
be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1978 (para. 36).
(d) Prior to effectiveness, SENASA would have hired a project management
consultant (para. 38).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) SENASA would present to the Bank by June 30, 1978 a schedule,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the employment of such additional
staff as shall be necessary to implement the project (para. 38).
(f) Before the commencement of any work, SENASA would enter into
a contract with the local Junta containing terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank with respect to the financing and
implementation of each sub-project and the tariffs to be charged
to the consumers. This contract should establish a minimum
initial contribution - not less than 10% (during construction)
of total investment cost (para. 39).
(g) SENASA would prepare by December 31, 1978 a program satisfactory
to the Bank for technical assistance to the local Juntas for systems
operation and maintenance after completion of construction of the
approved sub-projects (para. 40).
(h) SENASA would cause each Junta to set water tariffs at a level
sufficient to cover: (1) operating expenses including
maintenance; (2) together with the initial contribution not
less than 20% of subproject investment cost; and (3) provision
for major repairs and asset replacement. SENASA would
review tariffs annually and have them adjusted as needed to
meet the foregoing requirements (para. 42).
(i) As part of its aim to strengthen the management of SENASA's
operations, the Government agreed during negotiations that
SENASA would adopt before June 30, 1978 commercial accounting
practices satisfactory to the Bank and employ consultants or
specialized agencies to assist in planning and installing
the system (Section 4.02 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
(j) In addition SENASA will submit yearly, beginning in 1978,
a report on its records and accounts prepared by accountants
acceptable to the Bank, no later than four months after the
end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 (d) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
(k) SENASA would, not later than March 31, 1978 and every year
thereafter, furnish to the Bank for approval annual purchase
programs for goods required for the project (para. 45).
(1) It would be a condition of disbursement for materials and
equipment as well as construction that at least ten contracts
had been signed between SENASA and the local Juntas and that
the expenditures in question are included in a Purchasing
Program approved by the Bank (para. 46).



15PD 12EOI
B O   I V I A      .      
BOLIVIA                               N4                                            AGSE RInvo/o 4 C H  A C R I C
j NEUVA ASUNCION 
PARAGUAY                            -T
BOQUER6N ~  ~      ~     ~      CNERIO           ' 
A 2                                                                           -GENTI
SI          55         59'.s =    S      >    -- '    nl.v B                A I
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                  PED 0FR 2CANENDIYU
>   B O Q U E R O N   \/           W                 s  2t,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGA, Zo U
/ <   3r<-escss1Nn   o   5..sCENIR.AL  
X                     |                        A  ONCECIOAGU\AY1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To~ 'A IP  Ag°aI
A R G E N T I N A 5 ' lirl. EstoboJ47                              ............C?              Wn}<
CFNTRAJ . 14 &;2ARGENTIN
PARAGUAY                                   ;""  '  ' '( A- *to DIt  SI?tSEP- 10 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR  ZI 



