Document of                                     -i     v
The World Bank                      FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3189-TU
TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LABOR INTENSIVE INDUSTRY PROJECT
February 6, 1981
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Turkish Liras (TL) per US$
1959-70  - average                                                09.00
1970     - average                                                11.50
1971     - average                                                14.90
1972     - average                                                14.15
1973     - average                                                14.15
1974-    - average                                                13.90
1975     - average                                                14.45
1976     - average                                                16.05
1977     - January - March                                        16.05
- March - September                                     17.50
- September - December                                  19.45
1978     - January - March                                        19.45
- March - December                                      25.25
1979     - January - April                                        25.25
- April - June                                          26.35
- June -December                                        47.10
1980     - January - April                                        70.00
- April - May                                           73.70
- June - July                                           78.00
- August - October 11                                   80.00
- October 12 - October 25                               82.70
- October 25 - November 10                              84.80
- November 11 to December                               87.95
- December to date                                      89.25
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
SYKB             Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi A.O.
TSKB             Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S.
DESIYAB          Devlet Sanayi ve Isci Yatirim Bankasi
DYB              Devlet Yatirim Bankasi
EIB              European Investment Bank
Eximbank         Export Import Bank (U.S.A.)
COFACE           Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur
SEE              State Economic Enterprises
SIDO             Small Industry Development Organization
SMI              Small-Medium Scale Industry
SSI              Small Scale Industry
MSI              Medium Scale Industry



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
LABOR INTENSIVE INDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapters                                                                 Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION ...........................,                                1
II.   UNEMPLOYMENT AND PROSPECTS FOR JOB CREATION ....            .........    2
A.   Trends in Labor Supply and Employment .....................    2
B.   Urbanization, Urban Poverty and Urban Unemployment ........    3
C.   Role of Industry in Job Creation - Past Performance .......    4
D.   Prospects for Employment Generation .......................    6
E.   The Bank's Involvement in Industrial Finance ....             .........    6
III.   THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ..............................,                    7
A.   The Economic and Policy Setting ..........................               7
B.    Structural Features of Manufacturing Industry ....           ........    8
C.   Problems Affecting SMI Development and Proposed
Remedial Action ..............                                        10
D.   A Strategy for Promoting Employment Generation
in Industry .........................                                12
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR .14
A. The Institutional Set-up .14
B.    Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk .15
C.   Financial Assistance to Small-Medium Scale Enterprises ...   17
V. THE INTERMEDIARY - SYKB .18
A.   Institutional Developments ...............................   18
B.   Development Impact of SYKB's Operations .....            .............   20
C.   Financial Situation and Prospects ......            ..................   21
VI.    PROJECT AND LOAN FEATURES ........          ........................   26
A.   The Project ...............................................   26
B.  Loan Features ....................                                      30
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS .33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Annexes
Annex 1:   Deficiencies and Technical Assistance Requirements of SMI in
Turkey
Annex 2:   Interest Rates on Industrial Loans and Final Cost of Borrowing
Annex 3:   SYKB:  Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements:  1976-June 1980
Annex 4:   SYKB:  Analysis of Approvals by Sector, Geographical Location,
Size, Repayment Terms and Type of Projects: 1976-June 1980
Annex 5e   SYKB:  Summary Income Statements 1976-1979
Annex 6:   SYKB:  Summary Balance Sheets 1976-1979
Annex 7:   SYKB:  Summary of Arrears
Annex 8:   SYKB:  Sectoral Distribution of Loans Outstanding
Annex 9:   SYKB:  Projected Loan Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements
Annex 10:  SYKB:  Summary of Projected Income Statements 1980-1984
Annex 11:  SYKB:  Projected Sources and Applications of Funds 1980-1984
Annex 12:  SYKB:  Projected Balance Sheets for the End of 1980-1984
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Turkey in June 1980 and was composed of Messrs. S. Banerji, Z.S. Khan and
S. Malik. Mr. G.C. Maniatis headed the sector survey/project
identification mission and contributed to the report. Mr. F. Batzella
headed the preappraisal mission.



TURKEY
LABOR INTENSIVE INDUSTRX PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The economic crisis in Turkey which began in mid-1977 still con-
tinues and is reflected in poor growth rates, large balance of payments
deficits, and high inflation and unemployment l/. Since 1978, the Govern-
ment has implemented a number of stabilization measures, the most compre-
hensive and far reaching of which is the January 1980 economic program 2/.
However, given the accumulation of economic problems and Turkey's limited
capability over the medium-term in increasing considerably the net inflow
of capital, a return to stable growth will inevitably take time. Unemploy-
ment, particularly in urban areas, which began to increase rapidly after
1973 when external migration slowed down and worsened further in recent
years due to deteriorating economic conditions, has become an overwhelming
social issue.
1.02     Employment growth in the services sector which absorbed the bulk
of the labor force in the past two decades has slowed down considerably.
Because of rapid mechanization and other deep-seated factors in agricul-
ture, a net outflow of workers from the sector can be expected to con-
tinue. The industrial sector, on the other hand, has generated far fewer
jobs compared to its share of investment because of industrial policies
which favored capital-intensive investments. Nevertheless, considerable
potential for generating new productive and permanent employment opportuni-
ties exists within the industrial sector, particularly through the develop-
ment of relatively labor and skill intensive industrial enterprises.
Recent policy initiatives of the Government indicate its awareness of and
reliance on the industrial sector in generating more jobs. Small (SSI) and
medium scale (MSI) labor and skill intensive industrial enterprises appear
to have considerable growth potential in such sub-sectors as engineering,
processed foods, etc. where Turkey has a comparative advantage and export
prospects due to the large supply of skilled labor at comparatively low
wages, domestic availability of appropriate raw materials and intermediate
products, and proximity to markets in Europe and the Middle East. The
development of this segment of industry not only offers good prospects for
efficiently generating employment opportunities in urban areas, but also in
promoting the structural transformation of the industrial sector in the
direction of greater efficiency 3/.
1/  A detailed review of Turkey's economic situation and prospects appears
in Turkey - Policies and Prospects for Growth, March 1980.
2/ This has been described and discussed in detail in the President's
Report No. P-2727-TU dated February 29, 1980.
3/ For a more comprehensive and detailed analysis of employment issues and
the industrial and financial sectors, see Report No. 2913-TU entitled
"Prospects for Small-Medium Scale Industry Development and Employment
Generation", September 1980.



- 2 -
II. UNEMPLOYMENT AND PROSPECTS FOR JOB CREATION
A. Trends in Labor Supply and Employment
2.01     Turkey's total population in 1978 was estimated at 43 million,
having grown by an annual average rate of 2.5% since the mid-1950s.
Although the total working age group has increased at roughly the same
annual rate as total population, the growth in total labor force (estimated
at 16.1 million in 1978) at 1.6% per annum has been much slower, reflecting
a decline in the labor force participation rate. Despite the slower growth
of the labor force compared to population, the Turkish economy has created
far fewer jobs than required to absorb the growing labor force during the
past fifteen years. Total employment grew from 12.6 million in 1962 to
14.7 million in 1977 or by only one percent per annum during each of the
three plans covering the period 1962-1977. The difference between the
growth of total employment and total labor force has been particularly
large during the Second (1968-1972) and Third Plan (1973-1977) periods.
This disparity in growth rates did not result in a rapid rise in unemploy-
ment during the Second Plan period mainly because of the rising emigration
of workers abroad. From a negligible amount in 1962, the number of workers
employed abroad had grown to over 800,000 in 1975, or about 16% of total
non-agricultural employment. However, since 1973 net migration abroad has
declined sharply, and employment abroad as a percentage of total non-
agricultural employment has fallen to below 13% in 1979. Although the
relevant statistical series on employment are of limited coverage and
reliability, the unemployment rate in Turkey appears to have increased sub-
stantially in recent years as a result of reduced external migration,
worsening economic conditions and sluggish growth of productive employment
opportunities. Non-agricultural employment rose by only 134,000 in 1978,
as compared with 196,000 in 1977. Total surplus labor including that in
the agriculture sector is estimated to have exceeded 2.8 million or about
20% of the labor force in 1979.
2.02     The growth and sectoral distribution of employment is shown in the
table below.
SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION AND GROWTH OF EMPLOYMENT
Percent Shares                Growth Rates
1962  1967  1972  1977    1963-67  1968-72  1973-77
Agriculture              77.0  72.2   66.9   61.8    -0.4    -0.5         -0.4
Industry /a               7.9   9.2   10.7   12.6        4.2     4.1       4.5
Manufacturing            (7.2) (8.2)  (9.7) (11.0)    3.5        4.4       3.8
Services                 15.1  18.6   22.4   25.6       5.2      4.8       4.2
Total Civilian
Employment         100.0 100.0  100.0  100.0        0.9      1.0       1.2
/a  Includes mining, manufacturing, electricity, gas and water.



- 3 -
Between 1962-1977 employment in agriculture declined in absolute terms and
its share in total employment decreased by about 15%. During the same
period, the bulk of the increase in employment outside agriculture occurred
in services, whose share in total employment increased by over 10%. Indus-
trial employment increased at between 4 and 4.5 percent per year on average
during the three Plans, but its share in total employment, at around 13% in
1977, is still quite small.
B. Urbanization, Urban Poverty and Urban Unemployment
2.03     Turkey is rapidly evolving into an urban and industrial country.
Urban population has been growing at about 5% per annum, or double the
national average, with the urban share of the total population increasing
from 18% in 1950 to 45% in 1978. The seven largest urban centers 1/ (over
250,000 population) increased their share in the national population from
35% to 41% between 1965-1975, particularly at the expense of the smaller
urban centers in the 10,000-100,000 size category, suggesting that rural-
urban migration has tended to bypass the smaller centers in favor of larger
cities. These deep-seated urbanization trends can be expected to persist.
Urban population growth is projected at 4.5% per annum for the next decade
and it is anticipated that 75% of the population might be urban residents
by 1995.
2.04     Available data suggest an increasing concentration of urban poor
in the smaller centers--or that the incidence of urban poverty 2/ is
inversely related with the size of the urban center. Thus, in centers of
100,000-500,000 in size, the incidence of poverty is twice that of the
metropolitan centers, and in smaller centers even greater.  The higher
incidence of poverty in secondary urban centers basically reflects greater
difficulty in securing employment due to the persistent (and widening) gap
between available employment opportunities and growth of the local labor
force. Both the urbanization trends and the spatial incidence of urban
poverty strongly suggest the need for sustained effort to create new job
opportunities in smaller urban centers.
2.05     The number of urban unemployed, i.e. excluding surplus labor in
agriculture, exceeded 1.5 million in 1979 or about 10% of the total labor
force. Registrations in employment exchanges indicate that non-
agricultural unemployment in the 67 provinces of Turkey increased on an
average by over 18% a year during 1970-1977. The increase was particularly
sharp in the East and South-East regions, followed by the Mediterranean and
Black Sea regions. The metropolitan cities of Ankara and Istanbul alone
accounted for 22% of total urban unemployment and, along with Izmir and
l/ Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Bursa, Eskisehir, Adana and Gaziantep.
2/ Defined as households with incomes less than one-third the national
average or TL 31,000 in 1976 prices.



- 4 -
other regional urban centers 1/, their combined share exceeded 75% of total
urban unemployment in 1977. Regional urban centers show a higher growth
rate of unemployment than the major cities which partly reflects a lower
base but also the greater difficulty in securing employment. Unemployment
(1976-1977 averages) for all Turkey appears particularly high among primary
school graduates (54%), followed by middle level (26%) and barely literate
(19%). This pattern suggests in part the importance of providing a minimum
number of years of schooling and of upgrading technical skills to enhance
the employment potential of the labor force.
C. Role of Industry in Job Creation - Past Performance
2.06     Turkish planning focused primarily on rapid growth and moderniza-
tion through industrial development, especially growth of manufacturing,
since it was regarded as the basis for economic and social development.
The generation of employment was supposed to follow naturally from rapid
industrial growth and the concomitant high rates of investment. However,
the Government's import substituting development strategy as well as the
industrial and financial policies that were followed, channelled a large
part of industrial investment to sub-sectors 2/ and projects with high
incremental capital-labor ratios 3/, particularly in the public sector, so
that industry's share of employment increased very slowly compared to the
growth of industrial investment. Manufacturing industry received about 27%
of total investment during 1968-1978, but its share of total employment
only increased from 7.1% to 11% in the same time span. The implicit sub-
sidy on imported capital equipment provided by overvalued exchange rates,
together with custom duty deferrals or exemptions, and the policy of main-
taining relatively low (even negative) interest rates undoubtedly encour-
aged capital-intensive investment. Institutional factors i.e. labor legis-
lation and increased unionization as well as a high degree of industrial
strife also influenced investment decisions and technology choices in the
same direction.
2.07     Although capital intensity in the private sector has been increas-
ing relatively faster than in the public sector for the past several years,
on average it is still only two-thirds of that in public sector enterprises
in spite of the high level of overstaffing prevalent in public enter-
prises. The lower capital intensity of the private sector is in part
1/ Adana, Afyon, Antalya, Aydin, Balikesir, Bursa, Elazig, Eskisehir,
Gaziantep, Hatay, Kayseri, Kocaeli, Konya, Kutahya, Malatya, Sakarya,
Samsun, Sivas, Trabzon and Zonguldak.
2/ Iron and steel, chemicals, pulp and paper, petroleum, and non-metallic
minerals.
3/  For example, the average cost per job created in the manufacturing
sector increased from $16,700 in 1976 prices during the First Plan
period to $35,750 in 1976 prices in the Third Plan period.



-5-
due to its greater involvement in light and non-process industries--
fabricated metal products, electrical and mechanical machinery, building
materials, wood and furniture, leather and food industries--which have on
average lower capital intensity than basic and intermediate goods indus-
tries, as well as because it is predominantly populated by small and medium
scale industrial enterprises which have a relatively lower capital inten-
sity compared to large scale enterprises. Detailed and comparable sta-
tistics on the distribution of capital intensity by size of establishment
within individual industrial sub-sectors are lacking. Nevertheless, a
comparison of the investment cost per job for 542 projects granted Certifi-
cates of Encouragement between January 1979 and June 1980, roughly
two-thirds of which were new projects, shows that the average investment
cost per job for projects below TL 40 million ($570,000)(SSI) is roughly
one-half that of projects between TL 80 million ($1.14 million) and TL 160
million ($2.28 million) (MSI). Furthermore, the average investment cost
per job for the small and medium scale (SMI) group, i.e. below TL 160 mil-
lion investment, is TL 1.06 million ($15,100) which is less than one-third
the average investment cost per job (TL 3.28 million or $46,800) of the
larger projects. This attests to the significantly lower capital intensity
of the SMI group. It is noteworthy that during 1970-1977, the share of SMI
in total manufacturing employment increased from 31% to 35% and including
the unorganized sector, their share currently stands at about 55%.
TURKEY
INVESTMENT COST PER JOB BY PROJECT SIZE IN MANUFACTURING /1
Total Investment                   Average Investment
Number of    in Mach. & Equip.  Employment        Cost Per Job
Size            Projects         ('000 TL)        Generation      ('000 TL)  US$ /2
Investment in
Mach. & Equip.
Below TL4O million       129          3,523,465            4,896           720      10,290
TL40-TL80 million         146         8,435,001            8,979           939      13,400
TL80-TL160 million       108         12,267,042            8,868         1,383      19,760
TLl60-TL320 million        69        15,940,000            8,466         1,883      26,900
TL320-TL640 million       44         19,540,407            9,947         1,964      28,050
TL640-TLI,000 million    18          14,451,318            4,779         3,024      43,200
Over TL1,000 million      28        103,793,432           23,677         4,384      62,630
Total               542        177,950,665          69,612         2,556      36,500
/1  Based on projects which received Certificates of Encouragement during
1979-June 1980.
/2 Based on an average exchange rate of TL 70 = $1.
Source. State Planning Organization, 1980.



-6-
D. Prospects for Employment Generation
2.08     The future level of unemployment depends on the growth rates of
labor supply and employment opportunities. Labor supply is projected to
increase by 330,000 per year over the next five years. It is, however,
considered most unlikely that employment growth in the medium term will
keep pace with the growth of the labor supply. In agriculture, since past
trends in mechanization and other deep-seated factors are likely to
persist, there may even be a decline in aggregate sectoral employment in
absolute terms. The employment growth rate in the services sector has also
been declining in recent years (para. 2.02). This sector is expected to
create some 175,000 new jobs annually over the next five years. However,
employment in the services sector includes informal urban sector employ-
ment, much of it of a marginal nature which is socially and politically
undesirable. With the industrial sector projected to absorb some 85,000
workers per year, it is evident that the number of job seekers is likely to
increase by about 70,000 annually over and above the existing stock of
unemployed.
2.09     In view of the above, it is apparent that the industrial sector
will have to assume greater responsibility for creating productive employ-
ment than hitherto considered necessary. Given the steadily increasing
capital intensity of industrial investments and the limited availability of
investment funds, the only sensible means of accomplishing this objective
would be a concerted effort to foster development of relatively more labor-
intensive but efficient industries. Small and medium scale labor and skill
intensive enterprises have considerable growth potential in a wide range of
activities (para. 3.13) and the expansion of this segment of industry
offers the greatest potential of creating productive and permanent jobs in
urban areas at a relatively low investment outlay--which provides the
rationale for the proposed project.
E. The Bank's Involvement in Industrial Finance
2.10     The Government has increasingly become concerned with the rising
unemployment. The macroeconomic policy changes introduced as a part of the
Government's structural adjustment program articulated in January 1980, can
be expected to have a favorable impact on employment, since export-oriented
sectors stressed by that program have relatively low capital-labor ratios.
The recent liberalization of the interest rate regime and the adoption of a
flexible exchange rate policy, should also help remove the bias towards
capital intensity in agriculture and in industry. Furthermore, in the con-
text of the identification and preparation of the proposed project, the
Bank prepared a sub-sector report entitled "Turkey - Prospects for Small-
Medium Scale Industry Development and Employment Generation" (Report No.
2913-TU) which has been published with the Government's concurrence. The
report makes a number of specific recommendations aimed at fostering the
efficient development of labor intensive SMI (e.g. a program to strengthen
the Halk Bank's organization and procedures).  The Government has already
implemented a key recommendation to provide eligible SMI with the same



- 7 -
incentives as is available to large firms under the Certificate of Encour-
agement 1/ and has also agreed to assume the foreign exchange risk for SSI
borrowers under the proposed project (para 6.13).  During negotiations, the
Government's attention was drawn to the recommendations made in the SMI
Report (cf), particularly the need for developing an overall development
strategy and policy for the SMI sector. It is intended to continue this
dialogue in future projects of this nature.
2.11     The Government's new economic policies favor an enlarged role for
the private sector in developing manufacturing industry with new public
investments mainly directed towards developing infrastructural facilities.
The private sector is expected to take the lead in creating jobs and
increasing exports. The Bank fully endorses these initiatives, and is
assisting Turkey in fostering the process of structural change in the
industrial sector through increased support for private investments. In
recent years the Bank through its operations has induced TSKB to increase
its lending to projects located in less developed regions, to labor inten-
sive enterprises and to export oriented projects. It has also made a loan
to TSKB and SYKB to provide financial and technical assistance to private
sector export oriented textile projects. The Bank now plans to further
emphasize this orientation towards exports and employment in support of
Government policies. The prospective lending program includes additional
loans through intermediaries to further strengthen the export capability of
private enterprises. The proposed project, primarily aimed at fostering
employment generation through the development of labor intensive manufac-
turing industry, is expected to be followed in the future by additional
projects with the same objectives, possibly including other intermediaries.
III. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. The Economic and Policy Setting
Role of Manufacturing Industries in the Economy
3.01     Rapid growth coupled with the pursuit of an import substitution
strategy has led to a substantial structural change in the manufacturing
sector. The share of intermediate and investment goods in manufacturing
value added increased steadily from nearly one half in the early 1960s to
about two-thirds in the mid-1970s. Value added in manufacturing grew at
an annual average rate of about 10% and its share in GDP at factor cost
1/ Under the Certificate of Encouragement, projects located in less
developed regions, or in specified priority sectors or with an export
undertaking are entitled to various incentives (depending on the nature
of the project) which include interest rebates, exemption from the
transaction tax on interest and exemption or deferral of customs
duties. See Annex 2 for details as well as para. 8.02 of Report No.
2913-TU.



- 8 -
increased from 13% to 20% between 1962 and 1977. However, it increased by
only 3.1% in 1978 and declined by 5.9% in 1979. Similarly, fixed invest-
ment in the manufacturing sector, which absorbed some 30% of total fixed
investment up to 1975, has registered a 25% decline in the last two years
and its share in total fixed investment has fallen to 25%. An important
reason for this steep decline is the extremely low level of capacity
utilization (45% in 1979) mostly due to the acute shortage of foreign
exchange, power, fuel oil and other domestic inputs. However, smaller
firms achieved a higher capacity utilization (70% in 1979) partly because
of lesser dependence on imported raw materials and spares. The share of
manufactures in Turkey's total merchandise exports increased from 17% in
the late 1960s to about 35% between 1970 and 1979. But manufactured
exports still constitute a very small proportion (around 7%) of manufactur-
ing production. The dominant export commodity is textiles and clothing
(50% of the total), followed by food products (15%) and leather products
(7%). The private sector has historically invested mainly in profitable
consumer goods production. Its share in total manufacturing investment has
declined from almost 80% at the start of the First Plan to just over 50% at
the end of the Third Plan. It currently accounts for 45% of total manu-
facturing investment, 69% of value added, 83% of employment in manufactur-
ing and 86% of manufacturing exports. During 1965-1975, value added in the
organized 1/ private sector increased at a respectable annual average rate
of 17% compared to about 9% in the public sector, in spite of the increas-
ing share of the public sector in manufacturing investment.
B.  Structural Features of Manufacturing Industry
Size Distribution
3.02     Small (establishments with less than 50 workers) and medium scale
enterprises (establishments employing 50-200 workers) are predominant in
Turkish manufacturing 2/. In 1970, there were about 175,000 establishments
in the private sector 3/, of which 487 (or 0.3% of total) employed 200 or
more workers, 941 (or 1.2%) between 50 and 199, 3,391 (or 1.9%) between 10
and 50 workers, and the balance of some 170,000 establishments (or 97.2%)
less than 10 workers. In the last category, the so-called unorganized
sector, over 162,000 (or 93%) establishments employed 4 or less workers.
There is no recent statistical information available on the unorganized
1/ Comprising establishments employing 10 or more workers.
2/ Because of the unavailability of industrial sector data disaggregated
by asset size of enterprises, SSI and MSI are defined here in terms of
number of workers employed rather than by asset size. However, both
definitions are comparable based on the capital intensity of SMI
projects granted Certificates of Encouragement (para. 2.07).
3/ They probably number around 180,000 currently.



- 9 -
sector, but the situation probably has not changed perceptibly in this sec-
tor during the 1970's. In the organized sector, between 1970 and 1977 the
total number of establishments increased from 4,819 to 8,537, or by an
impressive 77%. The increase has been more dramatic in the medium (50-200)
and small scale industry (10-49) sectors, where the number of establish-
ments rose by 88% and 82%, respectively. The number of large scale estab-
lishments also increased, but by a modest 23%. The observed growth is
mostly the net result of new entry and upward inter-class shifts all the
way up from the unorganized sector.
Sectoral Distribution
3.03     Analysis of the sectoral distribution of the growth in the number
of manufacturing establishments in the organized sector during 1970-1977
indicate that the most dramatic increases, both in absolute numbers and
percentage-wise, have been in basic metals, including foundries, and metal
products, followed by leather products, plastics, and chemicals, reflecting
the potential in these industries and the quick response of new entrepre-
neurs, as evidenced by the high incidence of new entry in the face of
rising demand for consumer and intermediate goods (backward linkages). It
is also notable that in the more traditional industries such as food,
beverages and textiles (excluding clothing), the growth in the number of
establishments was very low. This reflects the already higher level of
development of these industries (large original base) and, possibly, growth
in the size of establishments.
Distribution of Employment
3.04     The distribution of employment by size of establishment in the
organized manufacturing sector is shown below.
DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYMENT IN THE ORGANIZED MANUFACTURING SECTOR
Size of Establishment                Year                Growth Rate, 1970-77
(No. of Persons Employed)   1970       %    1977    %        %    Annual Average
10-49                  71,681    14  123,411  16        72           8.1
50-99                  41,971      8   74,318   9       77           8.5
100-199                 47,156      9   80,836  10       71           8.0
200+                  349,648    69  511,328  65        46           5.6
Total                 510,456   100  789,893 100        55           6.5
Source; Table 8, Report No. 2913-TU.
Employment in manufacturing increased by 55% during 1970-1977, growing at
an annual average rate of 6.5%. The growth rate has been much higher
(8.0-8.5%) in the medium and small compared to the large scale enterprises



- 10 -
(5.6%) 1/. Enterprises in the 10-200 workers range created 118,000 new
jobs between 1970 and 1977, or 17,000 a year, which is quite remarkable
when compared to 161,000 jobs, or 23,000 annually, created by the 200+
firms during the same period. The increase in employment has been the
result of the growth in the number of establishments, primarily at the
lower end of the spectrum, as well as of the growth in the size of firms,
measured by the number of persons employed, particularly at the upper
medium and large scale industries. In the SMI segment of industry, employ-
ment growth has been particularly high in basic metals, metal products and
leather goods, raising substantially their respective shares in total
employment in this segment. Metal products, textiles and clothing, food
and beverages, chemicals and basic metals accounted for 88% of total
employment in the small-medium size group. This same group also accounts
for 94% of total employment in large scale industry.
Regional Distribution
3.05     In spite of the Government's efforts to foster regional dispersal
of industry through investment incentives, manufacturing industries show a
high regional concentration in the four major urban areas which account for
about 75% of the total number of manufacturing establishments. Istanbul
accounts for 42%, followed by Marmara (14%), Izmir (10%) and Ankara (8%).
Though the bulk of the unorganized small firms are also located in the
major urban areas, small firms in the same industries are often con-
centrated in certain urban centers e.g. metal products in Gaziantep, Bursa
and Konya; leather products in Istanbul. The above points to the need for
continued efforts at regional dispersal of industries, particularly aimed
at employment creation in the secondary urban centers.
C. Problems Affecting SMI Development and Proposed Remedial Action
Internal Constraints
3.06     SMI generally face internal and external constraints which create
conditions inimical to efficient operation. Major internal problems
adversely affecting productivity, quality of output or service and, by
extension, constraining the growth of SMI and particularly of SSI,
include; (a) out-of-date machinery; (b) deficient technical and management
methods (product design and production procedures, engineering, production
planning and work methods, materials selection and procurement, quality
control, preventive maintenance, etc.); (c) poor working conditions and
housekeeping, in part due to shortage of suitable factory premises and
infrastructure; and (d) marketing problems. Annex 1 provides in a tabular
1/ To the extent that underreporting by smaller establishments for a
variety of reasons (e.g. evasion of social security and tax payments)
takes place, the actual level of employment is underestimated. So are
levels of production and value added.



- 11 -
form an assessment of the deficiencies in five important industries--
engineering, wood-working and furniture, leather processing and footwear,
chemical, plastic and rubber products, and garments/made-up goods. Not all
of these problems necessarily apply to every enterprise. Their relative
importance varies with the particular industrial activity, size of
establishment, and the surrounding circumstances of each enterprise 1/.
Nor do they imply that the small enterprise is inherently inefficient.
Their existence rather attests to a built-in weakness, namely the lack of
specialized managerial, technical and marketing expertise within a small
organization. External problems tend to compound the internal ones.
Limited access to institutional finance and technical assistance make it
difficult for smaller firms to improve their operations. These deficien-
cies are institutional in origin, reflecting past ambivalence regarding the
development potential of the sector and inadequate allocation of credit and
technical assistance by intermediaries supposedly responsible for assisting
SMI.
3.07     At this juncture, the "technological gap" and the attendant need
for "vertical" as opposed to "horizontal" growth of production units pose a
more intractable problem. For SMI using traditional skills to produce
basic consumer goods such as furniture, garments, footwear, simple building
hardware and household utensils for a relatively undemanding market, this
is not a serious problem. Productivity and quality in these subsectors can
usually be upgraded without too much difficulty by introducing and financ-
ing better tools and simple machines (hand operated or powered) and
demonstrating their advantages on-the-spot or in formal shop practice
courses. For modern SMI, on the other hand, considerations involving
product design and quality, operating efficiency and the importance of
meeting promised delivery schedules, market expansion nationally and inter-
nationally, dictate size of factory and management sophistication above the
micro-range.  Adequate production facilities, specialized staff and manage-
ment skill (financial, technical and commercial) are critical to the suc-
cess of the enterprise, whether producing finished products or components
for larger factories. It is therefore necessary to complement any program
of financial assistance with appropriate technical assistance in order to
bring about the desired modernization and improvements in operating
efficiency.
1/ Medium scale establishments usually have less need for general
institutional technical assistance. Areas requiring outside assistance
refer primarily to marketing, financial planning, management functions,
and to technical problems which are specific to the industry and
require specialized know-how (e.g. metallographic analysis in
foundries, quality and process control in chemicals). Such types of
technical assistance are usually available from suppliers of machinery,
engineering consulting firms and universities (e.g. Middle-Eastern
Technical University). Financial intermediaries could help diagnose
problems, extend assistance, or refer firms to appropriate delivery
agencies.



- 12 -
3.08     The relatively advanced stage of industrial development in Turkey
dictates fundamental differences in the formulation of technical assistance
programs compared with other developing countries. Thus, it is important
to appreciate that there is no dearth of small entrepreneurs; the need is
rather to redirect an increasing share of industrial growth into modern
more efficient small-medium size enterprises. Institutional assistance in
identifying, evaluating, financing and implementing suitable projects
should, therefore, be strongly oriented to promoting partnership, corporate
or cooperative ownership. Similarly, improvements in project design, plant
layout and equipment selection, factory operations, necessitate a more
sophisticated level of technical assistance. The extension services of the
Small Industry Development Organization (SIDO) 1/, currently being
reorganized and strengthened should be able to assist in the solution of
the more routine problems, but specialized consultants are required to
assist in the solution of more complex technical and management problems
faced by medium scale and small scale enterprises in the upper end of the
size range. It is, therefore, proposed through the project to complement
the extension services to be made available under the SIDO program in the
near future by providing specialized consulting services to enterprises
receiving financial assistance (para. 6.06).
D. A Strategy for Promoting Employment Generation in Industry
3.09     In devising a strategy and the requisite policy framework to
promote industrial employment creation in urban areas, the role of SMI
looms large. Indeed, creation of employment opportunities and growth of
SMI are closely linked. Industrial development in Turkey has progressed to
the point where future growth of SMI depends on increasing adoption of
modern efficient production processes, specialization in production,
improved product designs and higher product quality, modern management
methods, and developing closer linkages with larger manufacturing firms
either as sub-contractors or ancillaries for the provision of parts,
components and sub-assemblies or with large scale trading establishments
serving either the national or export markets. Tnese needs can be achieved
primarily through well-conceived and properly tailored financial and
1/ The Small Industry Development Organization (SIDO), has been evolving
since 1968 with UNDP/UNIDO finance and technical assistance with the
objective of providing non-financial assistance to small scale enter-
prises. During the first phase (1968-78) a regional pilot program was
implemented at Gaziantep which included a model industrial estate, a
common workshop and laboratory facilities and a technical extension
service. The Ministry of Industry now plans to replicate the program
with suitable modifications reflecting the Gaziantep experience, to
cover four to six additional regional urban centers. The extension
service of the SIDO program which is still in an embryonic stage aims
to provide assistance in resolving technical, management and marketing
problems of SSI. For additional details, see paras. 7.09-7.13 of the
Turkey SMI Report (cf).



- 13 -
technical assistance programs, including skill upgrading and accelerated
training; promotion of cooperation between small and large enterprises
(e.g. through sub-contracting or marketing arrangements, etc.); and by
inducing structural changes (e.g. cooperative arrangements and consolida-
tion of smaller enterprises), export orientation, and adaptation to new
circumstances, rather than protecting inefficient and out-of-date methods
of production from the competition of more modern methods. Also the effort
to develop SMI should have an export-orientation. The presumption seems to
be that exporting firms should be large, entrenched entities. However, in
the light of Turkey's own experience in garments and leather, this is not a
condition sine qua non.
3.10     Emphasis on relatively less capital-intensive and more on skill-
intensive technologies, which are to a considerable extent suitable for
SMI, should greatly facilitate job creation. This does not mean to imply,
however, that the introduction of more sophisticated and specialized equip-
ment at this stage of Turkey's development should be discouraged. What it
does suggest is that an indiscriminate choice of highly capital-intensive
techniques and equipment should be avoided. Given the scarcity of capital
and foreign exchange and the comparatively lower wages in Turkey by US or
European standards, a conscious effort should be made to adopt, to the
extent possible, appropriate technologies suitable to the local circum-
stances. Appropriate technology in this context should be viewed rather as
a complement to, and not a substitute for, modern technology. Financial
intermediaries such as SYKB could play a useful role in guiding prospective
borrowers in the choice of appropriate technology.
3.11     The objective should be to achieve an appropriate balance between
larger and smaller (but efficient) establishments, utilizing more or less
capital-intensive techniques, in accordance with the country's factor
endowment--a symbiotic relationship in which the activities of small and
large firms conform to their respective comparative advantages l/. In
essence then the strategy should be to direct private investment and to
extend support primarily to SMIs with relatively high probability of
survival and success and conducive to promoting the gradual integration of
the SMIs with the rest of the industrial sector. Viability and self-
sustained growth of SMI are most likely to be attained, it would seem, by
focusing on industrial activities with promising growth potential and
characterized by rather low economies of scale, catering to specialized or
low-priced market niches, or displaying complementarity with activities
undertaken by larger firms in the form of ancillary or sub-contracting
arrangements, or provision of services. At the enterprise level, the
establishment with a realizable potential for growth, and consequently for
continuing viability, is likely to be the one in which there is some degree
of specialization of management functions.
1/ The issue is not promotion of small versus large establishments, or
indiscriminate support of SMI for the exclusive purpose of alleviating
unemployment at any cost.



- 14 -
3.12     Subsectors which appear most promising in terms of potential
growth of SMI comprise the foundry, engineering (fabricated metal products,
electrical and non-electrical machinery, transport equipment, and profes-
sional and scientific equipment), food processing, ready-made garments,
footwear and leather products, wood-based and furniture, plastics, and con-
struction materials. Aside from growing domestic demand and export poten-
tial, factors reinforcing the potential growth and viability of the SMI in
these industries include: relatively low scale economies in a wide range
of activities in each industry; locational factors, such as local process-
ing of bulky raw materials (saw mills) or local production of bulky prod-
ucts (construction materials); complementarity with larger industry,
involving manufacturing operations in which the processes are readily
separable (e.g. producing specialized machine products, components and
tools), craft or precision handwork, simple operations of assembly, mixing
or finishing, provision of services and repairs to other industries; pro-
duction of differentiated products for specialized markets, or low-priced
mass consumption goods. Engineering is perhaps the most inviting of all
subsectors, and its development should therefore command higher priority,
as it combines virtually all the above mentioned features. In general, all
industries mentioned above belong to the so-called "modern" SMI sector but,
for a wide range of products, they require small-medium scale of plant and
low capital intensity 1/. Their expansion should inter alia enlarge
employment in the urban areas in an economically efficient manner.
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. The Institutional Set-up
4.01     Turkey has a well-developed banking system.  At the end of 1977
there were 40 banks, state or privately owned, excluding the four invest-
ment banks DYB, TSKB, SYKB, and DESIYAB; of these, 28 are privately-owned
with 5 foreign-controlled. The remaining 12 are banks established and
controlled by the state under special laws and serve as instruments to
implement the Government's economic development objectives. Although the
state-owned institutions provide regular banking services, such as holding
deposits or making loans, each bank serves a specific industry or target
group, e.g. agriculture (Ziraat Bankasi), small industry (Halk Bank), etc.
The private commercial banking sector is characterized by a high degree of
concentration, with three banks (Is, Yapi-Kredi, and Akbank) accounting for
70% of the assets and credits in this segment of the sector. Commercial
banks have an extensive network of branches throughout the country and even
small urban centers are served by several banks, implying a high level of
competition for deposits, the bulk of which is onlent to the more developed
regions.
1/ The kind of activities suggested here are known to be dominated by SMI
and expressly exclude the traditionally large scale, capital-intensive
"process industries" (steel, aluminum, pulp, fertilizer, etc.).



- 15 -
4.02     Roughly half of total private fixed investment in the organized
sector of industry is financed by intermediaries, including commercial
banks. Another 40% of private industrial investment is financed out of
internally generated funds; about 8% from bond issues, and the remaining 2%
through direct foreign financing. TSKB provided about 6.5% of the total
fixed investment requirements of organized sector private manufacturers
during 1977-1978 followed by SYKB with 1.5%, the latter mostly for domestic
currency investments. The other sources of long-term industrial finance
are the new and rapidly-growing State Industry and Labor Investment Bank
(DESIYAB), designed to mobilize inter alia the savings of migrant workers
for investment in widely-owned companies mainly in the less developed
regions (potentially complementing TSKB's regional development efforts),
the Halk Bank, a Government owned commercial bank, which provides a modest
amount of term finance for investment in fixed assets by small scale indus-
try and artisans and the Investment Finance Corporation, established in
1976, which participates in the equity of large industrial firms located in
the less developed regions. Commercial banks provide an estimated 30%-35%
of total fixed investment requirements, mostly through short term loans
which are periodically rolled over.
4.03     Commercial banks focus heavily on short term lending and mainly
cater to the needs of larger companies in which they have equity holdings.
Private commercial banks control a large share of the equity of major com-
panies (portfolio of shares and securities was TL 11.5 billion in 1977),
reflecting the promotion of such undertakings by controlling interests. In
turn, the principal industrial concerns in Turkey are major shareholders of
private banks, which attests to the close linkages between the financial
and manufacturing sectors. In the secondary urban centers where competi-
tion for business is keener, smaller enterprises have access to commercial
banks for working capital finance, assuming the client satisfies the
stringent security requirements. However, since 1972, commercial banks
have increased medium-term lending to the private sector, in response to
regulations whereby they were required to earmark 10% (and, since 1976,
20%) of their portfolio for loans of 2-5 year maturities. The private
commercial banks have sustained virtually no losses from credit operations
and operate on high profit margins. The return on equity increased from
23% in 1972 to 63% in 1977 primarily through decreased capital ratios while
maintaining profit margins on total assets.
B. Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk
4.04     Until July 1, 1980 Government regulated interest rates both for
deposits and lending, differentiating by activity and maturity. Nonethe-
less, interest rates on deposits increasingly provided negative real
returns to savers due to the accelerating inflation. This has led to
disintermediation and diversion of investments to real estate and other
non-financial assets. Lending rates were differentiated by activity to
encourage investment in priority activities and regions, a policy which has
met with some success. This was accomplished through interest rebates both
to the borrower and the lender with commercial banks being especially
encouraged to lend on a medium term basis through access to the Central
Bank's rediscounting faciLity. The interest rate on industrial loans was



16 -
27.5% (including a 5.5% transaction tax) before any interest rebates which
ranged up to 9% depending on the nature of the project. However, no dis-
tinction was made between interest rates on foreign and local currency
loans, though borrowers of foreign currency assumed the full exchange
risk. While the interest rates on TL loans were negative in real terms,
the effective cost of foreign currency loans was high compared to rates
prevailing in the international capital markets. As a result, the demand
for such funds was sharply curtailed. The paucity of long term savings,
combined with negative real interest rates on TL loans, created an excess
demand for TL credit, and resulted in a severe shortage of local currency
credit.
4.05     The interest rate regime was reformed on July 1, 1980 in line with
the Government's new macro-economic policies, particularly those aiming at
restraining domestic inflation, maintaining a competitive foreign exchange
rate and fostering mobilization of savings. The Government officially
deregulated interest rates, allowing the banks to fix freely interest rates
on private sector TL deposits and loans. The banks now collectively deter-
mine base interest rates before commission, taxes and subsidies for TL
loans for industrial borrowers based on activity and maturity (Annex 2).
These base lending rates are revised every six months by the banks taking
into account expectations of inflation and market conditions. In addition
to the base rate, borrowers are charged a 2% commission for collateral
held, and a transaction tax plus an interest equalization fee totalling 40%
of the base interest rate. Qualifying borrowers, however, are eligible for
interest rate rebates from the Government on priority investment projects
issued Certificates of Encouragement varying from 25% to 60% of the base
rate, depending on the nature and location of the investment (para. 3.02).
As rebates on all loans are often paid with considerable delay, the
incentive effect is somewhat diluted. The current effective interest rate
on TL loans for the first half of 1981, after taking into account various
taxes and charges but excluding rebates, varies from 30% to 48% on medium
term TL loans and on long-term loans it is about 52% 1/ (Annex 2). The
adoption of the present system of market-determined interest rates for TL
deposits and loans represents a significant step towards insuring that
interest rates closely reflect domestic inflationary expectations and
market conditions. In fact, deregulation has led the banks to increase
interest rates substantially on term deposits over the past six months
(from 15% to 33% for deposits of between six months and one year maturity)
and has contributed to improved resource mobilization. It can thus be
reasonably concluded that the variable interest rate policy adopted by the
banking system should ensure interest rates that reflect the true cost of
capital during the life of the project, and hence unlikely to result in a
subsidy to the borrower.
4.06     On foreign currency loans, the base interest rate is set by the
intermediary's cost (or the weighted average cost) of foreign currency
1/ Domestic inflation levels are projected at 85% in 1981, 60% in 1982,
40% in 1983 and 20% thereafter. Based on these assumptions, the
nominal interest rate would have to be 37.5% for a TL sub-loan of seven
years maturity to yield a zero real interest rate.



- 17 -
borrowings plus a spread of 3.5%. Borrowers also pay a transaction tax and
interest equalization fee of 40% on the base interest rate and are eligible
for interest rebates depending on the nature and location of the invest-
ments as in the case of TL loans. Thus, the effective interest rate on
foreign cuirency loans, after taking into account all taxes and charges but
excluding rebates, varies between 16.6% and 19.8% with the borrower
assuming the full foreign exchange risk (Annex 2). This is satisfactory,
considering the prevailing interest rates in the international capital
markets for similar loans. However, as outlined in para. 5.22, the long
range effect on the spread on SYKB's financial structure and resource
mobilization requires a detailed analysis and review which SYKB has agreed
to undertake in the coming months.
C. Financial Assistance to Small-Medium Scale Enterprises
4.07     While well established larger enterprises have access to invest-
ment finance from institutional sources, recourse to non-institutional
sources of funds (self-financing, curb market, sale or mortgage of personal
property, solicitation from family members) is an important feature of the
SMI segment of industry. Lack of access to institutional sources for
financing fixed assets is particularly noticeable in SSIs occupying the
middle of the size range and in MSI. However, the true dimensions of its
extent and severity are hard to ascertain, in view of the reluctance of
many SSIs to seek financial assistance from banking institutions.  Lack of
collateral, unwillingness to disclose the true financial position of the
enterprise, fear of possible interference of the bank with operations,
short-sightedness and complacency seem to be some of the reasons. Both
SYKB and TSKB have been providing some term resources to the MSI segment,
but so far this has been far from adequate. The proposed project will
partially fill this financing gap by inducing SYKB to increase its lending
to the MSI and SSI segments of industry.
4.08     Small enterprises occupying the lower end of the SSI size range
and artisans are conveniently, though not adequately, served by the Halk
Bank through the intermediation of some 650 guarantee cooperatives with a
membership totalling 415,000. The Halk Bank is the major supplier of short
and medium term funds to SSIs but so far it has had a limited impact.
Because of shortage of funds, limits on loan size and orientation toward
cooperative financing, its lending to manufacturing enterprises for working
capital has been limited to about 12% of its portfolio and for machinery
and equipment to only 8% (in 1977). Also, the Halk Bank has kept the
credit granting authority of the branch manager to a minimum (TL 150,000 or
US$6,000 equivalent in 1978) and has emphasized fully collateralized (or
guaranteed) loans with immediate legal action (within 3 months) if repay-
ment problems develop. These two characteristics reflect the conservatism
of the Halk Bank and put the development orientation of the institution in
question. Furthermore, the Halk Bank needs to strengthen its organization,
systems and procedures in order to improve its overall capability and
efficiency. 1/ In view of the above, the Bank has selected SYKB which is
1/ The Bank has assisted the Halk Bank in drafting terms of reference for
a study to strengthen its organization, systems and procedures. The
Bank is pursuing the initiation of the study in its dialogues with the
Government.



- 18 -
interested in increasing its lending to SMI as the intermediary for the
proposed project.
V. THE INTERMEDIARY - SYKB 1/
A. Institutional Developments
Establishment and Ownership
5.01     SYKB was established in 1963 by five major commercial banks in
Turkey; namely Is Bank, Akbank, Guaranti Bankasi, Osmanli Bankasi and
Vakiflar Bankasi, to meet the investment financing needs of the private
industrial sector. The paid-in capital of SYKB is TL 400 million of which
60% is owned by Is Bank--the largest bank in Turkey--and the remainder is
equally divided among four other founding banks.
Board
5.02     SYKB's Board consists of six members including the Chairman.  Mr.
Cahit Kocaomer, General Manager of Is Bank, has been the Chairman since
February 1976. The other five members are representatives of the four
shareholder banks and, Mr. Orhan Altan, SYKB's General Manager.
Organization
5.03     Project identification, appraisal and supervision are undertaken
by the Financial Analysis, Technical, and Economic Study and Research
Departments, each headed by a manager. Resource mobilization and loan
administration including legal, insurance and accounting matters are
handled by the Loans Department. SYKB plans to change its present
organizational structure to make it more responsive to its fast expanding
operations. In order to reach SMI sub-borrowers in the smaller urban
centers under the proposed loan, SYKB proposes to utilize the branch
network of certain commercial banks (para. 6.05).
Management and Staff
5.04     The General Manager, Mr. Altan, appointed on January 1, 1979,
appears competent and imaginative and is gradually transforming SYKB into a
more dynamic and development oriented financial institution. The total
professional staff of SYKB was 44 on June 30, 1980, of which 22 are classi-
fied as engineers, economists or financial analysts. The staff is gen-
erally experienced and turnover has been very low. SYKB has developed a
phased program to increase its professional staff by 24 over the 1981-1984
1/ Appraised in July 1979 in connection with a Textile Project (Report
No. 2525b-TU).



- 19 -
period, of which 18 will be employed in direct project-related activities.
These additions should meet projected operational requirements. During
negotiations, an assurance has been obtained from SYKB that it will review
annually its staffing needs with the Bank in the light of prevailing
operating conditions and promptly thereafter recruit additional staff as
needed. The progress of recruitment of additional staff will be periodic-
ally reviewed by the Bank during supervision of SYKB.
Policies
5.05     SYKB has adopted a policy statement in January 1979 which ensures
sound lending operations. The statement provides, inter alia, for conduct-
ing sectoral and sub-sectoral studies to identify priority development
areas and viable projects with high economic priority. It further stipu-
lates that SYKB will finance projects whose majority control is vested with
the private sector and provide up to 60% of the fixed investment cost of
the project; its total exposure in an enterprise will not normally exceed
20% of its own equity; equity investments will not exceed 25% of the enter-
prise's capital and 10% of its own equity, while total equity investments
will not exceed its own equity; and it will not carry foreign exchange
risk. SYKB follows conservative though reasonable collateral policies.
Procedures
5.06     Appraisal:  SYKB's appraisal procedures are satisfactory.
Appraisal includes assessment of the management capability and credit-
worthiness of the applicant and economic, technical, marketing and
financial viability of the proposed project.
5.07     Supervision:  SYKB supervises its projects through regular visits
but does not prepare standard supervision reports although special problems
are recorded. Also, borrowers are not required to submit periodic opera-
tional reports to SYKB. SYKB could strengthen its supervision procedures
by developing a more formal systematic program of project supervision. The
Bank has made specific suggestions to SYKB in this regard and SYKB has
agreed to take these into account in developing a formal supervision
program. This program will also include a comprehensive evaluation of the
operations of each enterprise receiving a technical assistance grant (para.
6.06). During negotiations SYKB agreed to submit details of such a super-
vision program for Bank approval by July 1, 1981 and implement the same
within three months thereafter.
5.08     Procurement and Disbursement:  SYKB's procurement procedures are
designed to ensure economy and efficiency. Normally at least three bids
from suppliers in different countries are required for purchase of imported
goods. For local procurement, adequate domestic shopping is required.
These procurement procedures are consistent with those adopted by other
Bank assisted DFCs and are considered satisfactory. Disbursement proce-
dures are satisfactory.



- 20 -
Operations
5.09     Approvals, commitments and disbursements of loans and equity
investments for 1976-June 1980 are given in Annex 3. Total loan com-
mitments of SYKB have increased from TL 502.9 million in 1976 to TL 1,233.8
million in 1979; they reached TL 1,608.1 million in January-June 1980.
However, the increase in real terms was marginal, given the high level of
inflation during this period 1/. The annual fluctuations in working
capital loans and local and foreign currency investments mainly reflect the
resource availability of SYKB. During the 1976-1978 period, local currency
loan approvals comprised 92% of total loan approvals but decreased to 45%
of total loan approvals during the January 1979-June 1980 period, as a
result of the availability of new foreign currency resources. Equity
investments have been very small ranging from TL 4.8 million to TL 29.5
million during the 1976-June 1980 period mainly due to the thin capital
market in Turkey.
5.10     Analysis of SYKB's loan approvals during the 1976-June 1980 period
by sector, geographical location, size, repayment terms and type of
projects is given in Annex 4. During this period, the main beneficiaries
of SYKB's loans have been textiles (21.2%), metal products (16%), iron,
steel and other products (10.8%), electrical machinery and appliances
(10.3%), machinery and equipment (8.5%) and food products (7.8%). About
54% of approvals were for loans between TL 10-75 million in size; 12% being
below and 34% above the range. About 80% of total loan approvals were for
fixed investment, of which about one-half were for new projects.
B. Development Impact of SYKB's Operations
5.11     Although SYKB has only recently initiated promotional activities,
it has completed studies on the export of textile goods and the development
prospects of the forest products processing industry. During the last
three years, SYKB has generally financed priority projects which had
obtained Certificates of Encouragement. SYKB's loan approvals for projects
located in the semi-developed and less developed regions of Turkey have
increased from 27% of total approvals in 1976 to 40% in 1979 and 81% in
January-June 1980, which shows SYKB's increasing contribution to the
regionally balanced industrial growth of the country. It is estimated that
about 15,000 direct jobs would be created by projects which received loans
for fixed capital investment during the 1977-1979 period, with an estimated
average cost per job of $40,630 equivalent in 1978 and $20,900 in 1979.
The higher average cost in 1978 resulted from financing a few large
capital-intensive projects. SYKB's own contribution to the total fixed
investment in these projects was 7.2% in 1978 and 20.2% in 1979.
1/ Inflation rates were 35% in 1977, 50% in 1978 and 65% in 1979 and the
average for 1976-1979 was 46% per year.



- 21 -
C. Financial Situation and Prospects
Profitability
5.12     SYKB's income statements for 1976-1979 are given in Annex 5.  Net
income showed a sharp increase in 1977 due to a change in the treatment of
interest on loans from shareholding banks l/.  Until 1976, these loans
carried an interest rate of 11% per annum but, in 1977, the shareholding
banks made them interest free and elected to take the return in the form of
higher dividends. In 1977 SYKB's Articles of Association were amended to
allow the entire net income after appropriation for certain reserves and
bonus to management and staff (about 15% in aggregate) to be paid to share-
holding banks as dividend. As a result, since 1977, SYKB's pay-out ratio
has been high (about 85:15) although the actual returns to shareholders on
their share capital and loans to SYKB have been low (about 10%), compared
to interest rates on term deposits or other financial instruments. The
relatively low profitability is primarily due to the narrow spread on local
currency loans which has been the main activity of SYKB. However, SYKB's
profits have shown a reasonable growth in the past, and are projected to
increase in the future (para. 5.21), in line with the increase in its
foreign currency loans.
Financial Position
5.13     SYKB's comparative Balance Sheets for the years ending December
31, 1976-1979 are given in Annex 6. Although total assets almost doubled
in current prices from TL 1,397.5 million at the end of 1976 to TL 2,737.0
million at the end of 1979, in real terms they declined by 41%. The
paid-in capital has increased from TL 40 million to TL 400 million during
the same period, the biggest increase of TL 300 million occurring in 1979
due to the conversion of a part of the loan from shareholding banks into
equity. As a result, the long term debt/equity ratio decreased from 21.9:1
at the end of 1976 to 4.5:1 at the end of 1979 which was within the maximum
limit of 7:1 agreed with the Bank under the Textile Project. The current
ratio was 1.1:1 at the end of 1979 and is satisfactory.
Quality of Portfolio
5.14     SYKB's arrears situation is reflected in Annex 7.  Arrears and
loans affected by arrears of more than three months were 0.8% and 3.6%
respectively of the total loan portfolio on June 30, 1980. The loan port-
folio is widely spread among different industrial sub-sectors (Annex 8) and
1/  The Articles of Association establishing SYKB provide that the founding
banks were to lend 1% of their deposits in December 1962 to SYKB for a
period of 20 years and to allocate additional amounts out of the annual
increase in their deposits in future years. Shareholder banks may
require payment of these funds prior to their maturity in the event of
a decrease in their deposits.



- 22 -
a large portion is secured by bank guarantees. The quality of the loan
portfolio is, therefore, sound. SYKB has agreed under the Textile Project
to retain at least 5% of its net annual income as a provision for bad and
doubtful loans and investments up to a maximum of 2% of its loan and equity
portfolio. This limit is considered acceptable considering the good
quality of SYKB's portfolio. However, in view of its increasing involve-
ment in the SSI sector, SYKB has agreed to periodically review this policy
in the light of its relative exposure in the SSI sector and the quality of
its portfolio.
Audit
5.15     SYKB's audit has been performed up to 1979 by Touche Ross, Ltd.,
an international audit firm, and it has given an unqualified audit report.
Operational and Financial Projections
5.16     Operational Forecast:  SYKB's operational projections for the
1980-1984 period are given in Annex 9. These projections are based on the
general industrial investment outlook in the private sector during the next
three to five years (para. 5.18) and the project pipeline as of June 1,
1980, which includes pending loan applications for $33.07 million equiv-
alent in foreign currency and TL 1.11 billion in local currency. Foreign
currency loan approvals are projected at $18.5 million in 1980 and would be
significantly higher than in previous years mainly due to the increased
availability of such funds. These approvals are projected to increase at
an annual average rate of about 24% in current dollar prices during the
1980-1984 period, which is considered reasonable due to the increasing cost
of machinery and equipment and growing requirements of funds by the private
industrial sector.  The projected foreign currency loan approvals also
include subprojects in the labor intensive SMI sector to be financed during
1981-1983 under the proposed Bank loan of $40 million.
5.17     The demand for invesment loans from SMI enterprises is expected
to be stimulated by the major policy changes recently introduced by the
Government which allow eligible SMI the same incentives as is provided to
larger projects which receive the Certificate of Encouragement (para.
2.10). In addition, the higher capacity utilization of the SSI segment
of industry in 1979 (about 70% on average) indicates that SSI has been
affected significantly less by the economic downturn than larger firms
(para. 3.01). Moreover, the Government has agreed to assume the foreign
exchange risk for SSI subprojects proposed to be financed by SYKB out of
the Bank loan. And the recent substantial reduction in foreign exchange
interest rates (para. 4.06) should provide a further stimulus to investment
for both medium and large scale projects. Finally, the fact that SYKB is
in a position to finance both the investment and working capital needs in



- 23 -
local currency of enterprises (currently a major problem for prospective
investors) should further enhance lending for SMI 1/.
5.18     For 1981-1983, private manufacturing investment is projected to
average around $1.4 billion per year, of which about 2% is expected to be
financed by SYKB. A good indication of potential investment demand are the
Certificates of Encouragement issued by the Government. SYKB has short-
listed some 85 projects out of a much larger number which received Certif-
icates between July 1979 and May 1980 (10 months) which satisfy its finan-
cial requirements. Out of this short-list, the estimated foreign exchange
requirements of projects satisfying the investment cost per job criterion
of the proposed project amount to about $20 million. In addition, SYKB
initiated a promotional effort in November 1980 to solicit loan applica-
tions from prospective borrowers. By mid-January 1981, SYKB had received
preliminary loan applications from eligible borrowers for 175 projects with
total foreign exchange requirements of about $70 million. Sub-sectors from
which significant loan applications have been received include engineering
($21 million), textiles and clothing ($20 million), basic steel products
($5.5 million), food products ($3.5 million), wood products ($2.5 million)
and ceramic products ($2.3 million). Of these, SSI account for some 149
applications with a foreign exchange requirement of $35 million (50%).
SYKB tentatively estimates that about 50% of the preliminary applications
would meet its appraisal standards. It intends to continue this promo-
tional effort in future which will undoubtedly result in more applica-
tions. Based on the above considerations, it is reasonably expected that
SYKB will be able to commit at least $10 million for SSI and $20 million
for mostly MSI in foreign exchange for direct machinery imports over
1981-1983. Considering that, on the average the share of direct imports in
machinery investment is about one-third for SSI and about two-thirds for
most MSI, the implicit total investment (machinery only) for all sub-
projects would be almost $60 million. If the Bank finances 40% of the cost
of domestically produced machinery ($30 million) representing the imputed
foreign exchange content 2/, an additional amount of about $12 million
equivalent in TL could be utilized by SYKB. Thus a $40 million loan could
be utilized by SYKB to finance both direct and indirect imports of
machinery.
5.19     SYKB's local currency loan approvals are expected to increase from
TL 891.5 million ($27.1 million equivalent) in 1979 to TL 1200 million
($15.1 million equivalent) in 1980 due to a few large loans. The approvals
are expected to decrease to TL 990 million ($12.4 million equivalent) in
1/ TSKB's poor performance in the past in achieving its lending targets to
labor intensive projects stem from (a) lack of local currency resources
to meet both the investment and working capital needs of the projects
and (b) the high interest rates on foreign currency loans which cur-
tailed demand (para. 4.05). Also since these are mostly large new
projects, sponsors faced difficulty in providing adequate equity from
own resources.
2/ This percentage has been determined on the basis of a review of a
representative sample of domestically manufactured machinery, typically
financed by SYKB.



- 24 -
1981 but would increase thereafter at the rate of about 10% per annum in
1982 and 15% in 1983 and 1984. The equity investments of SYKB are esti-
mated to remain low, increasing by TL 21.9 million in 1980 to TL 45.0
million in 1984. The projections indicate a decline in real terms of local
currency operations mainly due to TL resource constraints arising from
expected constraints in the use of the Central Bank's discount facility.
5.20     Resource Mobilization:  The long-term resource position of SYKB at
the end of 1979 was as follows:
LONG-TERM RESOURCE POSITION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1979
Local Currency    Foreign Currency
(TL in '000)        ($ in '000)
Sources
Equity                                     465,949
Loans from:  Shareholding banks            412,057
Central Bank                  687,367
AID                           103,564           6,758
EIB                              -             20,379
Eximbank                                        2,000
IBRD (Textiles)                  -             15,000
Total sources                            1,668,937           44,137
Applications (Disbursements)                  1,566,181          20,074
Surplus/ (deficit) on disbursement
basis                                     102,756           24,063
Amount committed but not yet disbursed          156,730           1,876
Surplus/ (deficit) on commitment basis   (53,974)            22,187
Amount approved but not yet committed           187,100           4,870
Surplus/ (deficit) on approval basis    (241,074)            17,317
As can be seen from the above table, SYKB's major sources of local currency
funds are loans and equity investments by share-holding banks, followed by
loans from the Central Bank under its discount facility 1/. Although
SYKB's local currency loan approvals and commitments exceeded its resources
as of December 31, 1979, the shortfall could be covered through the fuller
utilization of the discounting facility of the Central Bank and loan
recoveries. The major unutilized foreign currency resources are the Bank
loan ($15 million) and the second EIB loan ($7.5 million) made available in
1979. The foreign currency resource position of SYKB was comfortable as of
December 31, 1979 although the existing Bank loan is earmarked exclusively
for financing textile sector projects. Total foreign currency loan com-
mitments during the 1980-1984 period are estimated at $124 million, or an
1/ This facility allows SYKB to refinance 60-80% of medium term loans
granted for projects which are export oriented or have received a
Certificate of Encouragement.



- 25 -
average of-$24.8 million per annum. SYKB's uncommitted foreign currency
resources as of December 31, 1979 were $22.2 million. This implies that
additional funds of $101.8 million are required to meet the projected
commitments. SYKB has already received a commitment of $14.5 million
equivalent from EIB. Taking into account these funds and the proposed Bank
loan of $40 million, the foreign currency resource gap decreases to $47.3
million which relates largely to 1983 and 1984. SYKB does not yet have
firm plans to fill this gap but expects that existing and new sources will
provide additional funds. SYKB plans to meet its local currency require-
ments largely through the rediscount facility of the Central Bank and
internal generation of funds.
5.21     Projected Profitability and Financial Position:  SYKB's projected
income statements, cash flow statements and balance sheets for the
1980-1984 period are given in Annexes 10-12. Net income is projected to
increase from TL 105 million in 1979 to TL 178 million in 1982 and to TL
274 million in 1984 despite the increase in corporate income tax from about
28% to 53% in 1980.  Return on equity 1/ should improve from 47% in 1979 to
71% in 1982 and further thereafter. The return to shareholders on their
total investment will be 10.8% in 1980 and will increase to 18.3% in 1982.
The liquidity position will also be satisfactory as indicated by current
ratios of 1.1:1-1.3:1 and debt-service coverage of 1.1-1.3 times during the
projected period.
Debt-Equity Limit
5.22     Under the first Bank Loan (1754-TU), SYKB was authorized a debt/
equity limit of 7:1 and, as a condition of the loan, it increased the
paid-in capital to TL 400 million. Subsequently, with Bank approval, SYKB
converted TL 187 million of shareholding banks' loans into quasi-equity to
meet the additional needs arising from the devaluations of the TL in
1979-80. The projections, however, indicate that SYKB's debt/equity ratio
will reach 7:1 by end-1981 and increase further in subsequent years. SYKB
has requested the Bank to relax the debt-equity limit. SYKB's request can
be supported on the grounds of SYKB's efficient management as tested
directly since the first Bank loan has been appraised, prudent financial
policies and practices, and sound portfolio. It is also recognized that
SYKB would find it extremely difficult to convince its shareholders to
provide additional equity over the next 2-3 years because of very low
returns on their existing investment and their cost of funds is around 40%
at present. It is therefore proposed that SYKB's debt-equity limit be
increased to 9:1. However, as the issue of debt-equity limit is linked to
the returns to shareholders on the one hand and the resource mobilization
efforts of SYKB on the other, it was agreed during loan negotiations that
SYKB would make an in-depth study of this subject. The study would analyze
all relevant factors including the cost of mobilizing resources in Turkey
1/ This does not include the interest free loans from shareholders and is
related to net income before tax.



- 26 -
by various means (e.g. loans, bonds, debentures, and equity), the adequacy
of spread allowed by the Government in the light of the high prevailing
inflation rate and the impact of these factors on SYKB's present and
potential profitability and financial position. It would come up with
recommendations which should ensure an adequate return to shareholders, as
well as a reasonable financial structure. The findings of the study would
be discussed with the Government and the Bank and further action would be
taken in the light thereof to implement the recommendations of the study.
The terms of reference of the study will be discussed with a Bank mission
which will visit Turkey in March 1981 and the study is expected to be
finalized by June 1981.
VI. PROJECT AND LOAN FEATURES
A. The Project
Project Objectives and Strategy
6.01     In the light of Turkey's rapidly growing urban unemployment and
limited prospects for job creation (para. 2.08), generation of productive
and permanent employment opportunities in urban areas has become an over-
whelming social issue. The proposed project aims primarily at creating
jobs in urban areas through the support of labor and skill intensive manu-
facturing enterprises, mostly small and medium scale, which offer the
greatest job potential at a reasonably low investment cost per job. 1/
SYKB, which will implement the project, will make special efforts to
promote and assist projects in the twenty-three urban centers, which
account for over 75% of total urban unemployment (para. 2.05), in order to
make a tangible impact on the urban centers more affected by unemployment.
At the same time, the growth of this segment of industry will contribute to
the efficient and balanced development of the industrial sector.
Project Scope and Description
6.02     The project has two components:  (a) financial assistance, and
(b) technical assistance. These are described below.
1/  In this connection, the issues raised in the OED report ("Sector Opera-
tions Review: The Industries and DFCs Program in Turkey, No. 3077
dated July 18, 1980)" concerning the low contribution of the industrial
sector towards employment and exports have been addressed. The pro-
posed project specifically addresses the employment issue. Further-
more, many labor intensive sub-projects are likely to be in sub-sectors
with export potential where Turkey has a comparative advantage because
of relatively low wage costs. Thus the project inter alia addresses
the export issue in the OED report.



- 27 -
Financial Assistance
6.03     The proceeds of the Bank loan will be onlent by SYKB to eligible
enterprises to finance subprojects involving acquisition of fixed assets
and associated permanent working capital in foreign exchange, as required.
In order to maximize the employment impact of the project, it is proposed
to limit the maximum investment cost (excluding land and building) per job
created for subprojects financed under the loan at US$15,000 1/. This is
based on a review of the capital intensity of investment projects which
have received Certificates of Encouragement from the Government (para.
2.07) and projects financed by TSKB, SYKB and the Halk Bank. It is esti-
mated that the average investment cost per job for the aggregate of sub-
projects financed will be about $12,000. The proposed limit represents a
significant reduction over the average cost per job prevailing in recent
years in the Turkish manufacturing sector, currently estimated at US$50,000
in 1980 prices (para 2.06). It would be unrealistic to establish a much
lower investment cost per job limit, as far too many viable projects would
be disqualified and the employment impact of the project would greatly
diminish.
6.04     At least one-third of the loan will be earmarked for SSI sub-
borrowers. This will induce SYKB to lend to SSI, which are generally more
labor intensive than large scale firms, and will complement TSKB's lending
to much larger labor intensive enterprises; 2/ in addition, it will achieve
a better regional distribution of prospective jobs among the secondary
urban centers. Given the low stipulated investment cost per job limit, it
is anticipated that the greater part of the balance of the loan will be
committed to medium size enterprises i.e. firms with fixed assets not
exceeding US$2.0 million. In order to eliminate the uncertainty arising
from future devaluations and to encourage SSI to borrow from institutional
sources of term finance, the Government has agreed to assume the foreign
exchange risk on loans to SSI sub-borrowers. For the purposes of this
project, SSI is defined as follows: for new subprojects, the fixed assets
of the enterprise, excluding land and building, after project implementa-
tion should not exceed US$350,000, whereas for expansion SSI subprojects,
the fixed assets of the enterprise, excluding land and building, should not
exceed US$500,000.
6.05     SYKB lacks a branch network of its own.  This has not been an
impediment in the past as large clients approach SYKB on their own. How-
ever, to reach potential SMI clients, particularly the SSI, it has agreed to
1/ All dollar figures are in prices as of December 31, 1980. These limits
would be adjusted in succeeding years for dollar inflation.
1/ Labor intensive projects financed by TSKB have a maximum investment
size limit of about $3.0 million (with the maximum asset size of the
enterprise after the project limited to $6.0 million) and a maximum
investment cost per job limit of $22,500, all in mid-1980 prices.



- 28 -
utilize the branches of its shareholding commercial banks to identify and
promote eligible subprojects, particularly in smaller urban centers with
high levels of unemployment. The commercial banks will be primarily
acting as agents for SYKB and will identify, screen and channel potential
borrowers to SYKB and also assist in loan administration. However, SYKB
will appraise, approve and supervise all such subprojects. SYKB will pay a
one-time fee of 1.5% of the sub-loan amount to the participating commercial
banks for these services. The working arrangements with the participating
commercial banks and the fee to be paid to them have been formalized in a
draft protocol which was approved by the Bank during loan negotiations.
Execution of the protocol, either with Is Bank, the largest shareholder, or
with at least two other cooperating banks is a condition of loan effective-
ness. Furthermore, SYKB has agreed to promote labor intensive subprojects
in the priority urban centers by providing technical assistance for
feasibility study preparation and market research as well as equity finance
from its own resources to eligible subprojects which might not be otherwise
implemented (para. 6.01).
Technical Assistance for SMI
6.06     As mentioned earlier (para. 3.09) SIDO, currently being reorga-
nized and strengthened, should be able to assist small and artisanal enter-
prises resolve some of their more routine technical problems. But the
solution of more complex technical and management problems often faced by
medium and small scale enterprises in the upper end of the size range
necessitates a more sophisticated level of technical assistance than can be
provided through SIDO. Fortunately, there are a considerable number of
individual consultants and consulting organizations, private and public,
available in Turkey who can provide assistance in resolving complex tech-
nical, management and marketing problems facing industrial firms. It is,
therefore, proposed to utilize the services of these consultants to assist
small and medium scale enterprises who are in need of specialized technical
assistance on a cost sharing basis. The beneficiary enterprises will
select the consultants. However, in order to assist enterprises in iden-
tifying and recruiting the most suitable consultant, SYKB has agreed to
prepare by June 30, 1981 a roster of qualified consultants, classified by
field of specialization. The program will be administered by SYKB's
Project Appraisal and Supervision Department. SYKB has agreed to assign
initially at least one technical staff member to administer the program,
particularly to oversee the contracting of consultants by enterprises and
coordinate all extension activities. In order to monitor the effectiveness
of the technical assistance program, SYKB has agreed to prepare a compre-
hensive report evaluating the effect of the technical assistance on the
operations of each beneficiary enterprise six months after the implementa-
tion of such assistance. This report would be a part of the proposed
supervision system to be introduced by SYKB (para 5.07). In addition, Bank
supervision missions will periodically review the functioning of the tech-
nical assistance program to assess whether the desired objectives are being
achieved and suggest changes, if needed, to improve operations.



- 29 -
6.07     SYKB has agreed, furthermore, to establish a fund to finance
technical assistance costs of its sub-borrowers in general, but particu-
larly for the labor intensive small and medium scale firms to be financed
under the project. The costs of technical assistance will be shared
between the fund and the beneficiary enterprise normally on an 80:20
basis. Furthermore, the maximum amount of funds provided as a technical
assistance grant should not normally exceed 2% of the sub-loan amount. A
least two-thirds of the total amount in the fund would be reserved for
financing the technical assistance costs of eligible sub-borrowers. SYKB
has agreed to finance the fund through a charge on its interest spread and
commissions available under the loan equal to one-half percent of the out-
standing loan amount. It is estimated that the fund will accumulate at the
rate of $200,000 per annum when the loan is fully disbursed. However,
during the initial period (two to three years) of implementation of the
project when no income will accrue to the fund, SYKB has agreed to make
initial contributions to the fund on an interest free basis of $25,000
equivalent on July 1, 1981 and an equal amount on January 1, 1982 to set
the scheme in operation. SYKB will recover the advance as income accrues
to the fund. The fund will be used to finance the following specific
activities: (i) providing consultants and other services to sub-borrowers
to assist them solve technical, management and marketing problems relating
to project preparation, implementation and operation; (ii) training of
enterprise staff both at the enterprise and at outside facilities, e.g. the
Marmara Research Center, in specific areas relating to the operation of the
enterprise; (iii) training of SYKB's staff on subjects related to SYKB's
objectives and operations; and (iv) hiring of consultants by SYKB for
specific periods to undertake special studies relating to SYKB's objectives
and operations.
Project Evaluation
6.08     Since the project contains elements which are being tried out for
the first time (the cooperative arrangement with the commercial banks and
the technical assistance program), it would be desirable to thoroughly
evaluate these elements in order to obtain insights for improving the
design of future Bank projects in this area. Consequently, SYKB has agreed
to carry out by June 30, 1983 a comprehensive study under terms of refer-
ence satisfactory to the Bank, on the following aspects: (i) the function-
ing of the cooperative arrangement with the commercial banks for promoting
and financing SMI projects; (ii) the impact of the technical assistance
program on the efficiency of beneficiary enterprises and the appropriate-
ness of the overall design of this program; and (iii) any other aspect of
the project requiring evaluation.
Project Benefits and Risks
6.09     Project Benefits:  The project would create about 5000 permanent
and productive employment opportunities mostly in regional urban centers
with high unemployment levels, at an average investment cost per job
created (for the aggregate of sub-projects to be financed under the loan)



- 30 -
of about $12,000 (based on a maximum limit of $15,000) which relates to an
average of $50,000 for the manufacturing sector as a whole. Although the
number of direct jobs generated is modest, the project will permit the Bank
to strengthen and focus its dialogue with the Government to induce it to
adopt an overall strategy and policy framework for fostering the develop-
ment of labor intensive industry. The SMI sector report prepared in the
context of project preparation provides the basis for this dialogue. The
project is viewed as a first operation and is likely to be followed in the
future by additional projects with the same objectives. As the project
will be evaluated two years after loan effectiveness (para. 6.08), it will
provide valuable insights for improving the design of future Bank projects
with similar objectives in Turkey. About one-half of the machinery invest-
ment under the project will be of domestic origin, which should stimulate
the development of domestic capital goods industries and generate addi-
tional employment in these industries. By fostering the growth of effi-
cient SM! in subsectors where Turkey has a comparative advantage and con-
siderabl- export potential, the project should assist in the longer term
in the much needed restructuring of the industrial sector. The technical
assistance component of the project would improve the productivity of the
user firms and would stimulate the development of domestic industrial con-
sulting firms which in the longer term should contribute to improving the
efficiency of Turkish industry.
6.10     Project Risks.  The project, being the Bank's first operation in
Turkey specifically aimed at urban employment creation through support to
mainly labor intensive SMI, can draw on little direct historical lessons to
guide its implementation. In the short term, economic problems besetting
Turkey could affect the demand for investment finance from industry. SYKB
does not have a branch network and has had little experience with lending
to SSI, and hence will need to rely on the proposed arrangement with its
shareholding commercial banks to identify potential SSI subprojects,
particularly in the secondary urban centers. However, SYKB can be trusted,
based on its past performance that it will meet the challenge. Further-
more, the proposed arrangement for utilizing the services of consultants
to provide technical assistance to SMI is also a novel feature, and its
efficacy will have to be established in practice. All in all, SYKB a long
established investment bank, is fully committed to achieving the objectives
of the project and has agreed to take special initiatives in this con-
nection. On balance, therefore, the risks are reasonable and acceptable.
B. Loan Features
6.11     Lending Arrangements: At the request of the Government and SYKB,
it is proposed that the loan be made to the Government which will relend it
to SYKB under a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank. SYKB will repay the loan to the Government based on the
aggregate composite amortization schedule of individual sub-loans. SYKB
prefers this arrangement since the Government is assuming the foreign
exchange risk on part of the loan and will need to provide additional local
currency resources to supplement debt service payments as devaluations



- 31 -
occur. The maturity of individual sub-loans which will be commensurate
with the economic life of the equipment financed and the sub-borrower's
debt-servicing capacity is expected to average around twelve years includ-
ing two years grace. It is proposed that the Government repay the loan
to the Bank on a fixed amortization schedule of three years grace and 15
years maturity which will be commensurate with the aggregate amortization
schedule of individual sub-loans. The final date for subproject submission
will be December 31, 1983 and the closing date June 30, 1986.
6.12     Loan Size and Use of the Loan Proceeds:  A loan of $40 million is
recommended to be used to finance the full cost of imported machinery and
equipment and, when required and justified, associated permanent working
capital in foreign exchange. In addition, Bank funds may be used to
finance 40% of the cost of domestically produced machinery and equipment,
net of taxes, reflecting the imputed import content of such locally manu-
factured machinery and equipment (para. 5.18).
6.13     Lending Terms to Sub-borrowers:  The current investment outlook in
industry appears to be constrained by the uncertainty arising from the
obligation of sub-borrowers, particularly SSI sub-borrowers, to bear the
foreign exchange risk.  SSI entrepreneurs are especially affected since
they have great difficulty in hedging or planning against foreign exchange
rate changes and in absorbing sudden losses. In order to encourage sub-
borrowers of small scale labor-intensive projects to undertake investments,
there is need to eliminate the uncertainty associated with future devalua-
tions but at the same time such sub-borrowers should not be subsidized.
The following agreements have been reached with SYKB'and the Government
concerning interest rates and foreign exchange risk on sub-loans:
(a)  The Government will bear the foreign exchange risk for all SSI
sub-loans and the sub-borrower will pay the prevailing free market
Turkish Lira interest rate for similar types of loans as deter-
mined from time to time (para. 4.05). On the portion of the loan
utilized by sub-borrowers other than SSI for financing the imputed
foreign exchange content of locally produced equipment, the
sub-borrower would pay the prevailing free market Lira interest
rate, while the Government would bear the foreign exchange risk
(para. 4.05). It should be noted that, in the latter case, the
sub-borrower would receive a TL loan for the purchase of locally
produced machinery and, therefore, cannot be expected to assume a
liability in foreign exchange.
(b)  For all other sub-loans utilized for direct imports, the sub-
borrower will bear the full foreign exchange risk and the interest
rate would be determined by the cost of Bank funds to the Govern-
ment plus SYKB's spread and commission (para. 6.14).
6.14     Free Limit:  The free limit for sub-loans will be $750,000 which
is the same as that adopted under the Bank's textile project (Loan No.
1755-TU).  It is estimated that about 80-100 SSI subprojects and 30-40



- 32 -
other subprojects would be financed through tha loans. The first five
sub-loans to SSI and the first five to other sub-borrowers, irrespective of
loan amount, will be submitted to the Bank for approval. It is estimated
that about 45% of the loan amount will be utilized for above free limit
projects requiring the Bank's approval. For the purpose of monitoring sub-
projects below the free limit, SYKB has agreed to translate ex-post and
submit to the Bank the appraisal reports of a sample of 10% of SSI sub-
projects and 25% of other subprojects below the free limit, selected by the
Bank from the list of approvals submitted. SYKB will compute the economic
rate of return (ERR) on all its projects with an investment in fixed assets
exceeding US$750,000.
6.15     SYKB's Spread:  SYKB will receive a gross spread of 5.5% (3.5%
spread plus a 2% p.a. commission) on all sub-loans to be made under the
project. However, the gross spread includes a half-percent annual payment
to the technical assistance fund (para. 6.07) and a 1.5% one time fee to
commercial banks for utilizing their branch network which would result in a
net spread slightly below 5%. Though the normal spread allowed to inter-
mediaries on foreign currency loans in Turkey is 3.5%, the slightly higher
spread for this particular project, which has been agreed to by the Govern-
ment, is considered reasonable and is justified on the following considera-
tions: (i) about half of the loan will be onlent in Lira, where the real
income from the spread will be eroded over the life of the sub-loans due to
inflation, resulting in an average real margin on both foreign and local
currency financing comparable to the spread being charged by TSKB; (ii)
SYKB's lower debt-equity limit compared to TSKB's (10:1) implies that a
larger average gross spread would have to be provided to it in order to
ensure that equity investments in SYKB are equally attractive compared to
TSKB given that both institutions have common shareholders; and (iii) SYKB
will incur substantially higher administrative costs and possibly greater
default risk in lending to SMI compared to large well established enter-
prises. 1/
1/ The experience of DFCs in financing SMI in the Philippines (The
Philippines data are from "Transaction Costs of Credit to the Small
Scale Sector in the Philippines" by K.A. Saito and D.P. Villanueva,
Domestic Finance Studies, No. 53, IBRD, 1978), Columbia and India (Data
from "Employment Creation and Small-Scale Enterprise Development",
Table 3, World Bank Policy Paper, 1977) support this view. In each of
these countries analysis of the portfolio of institutions primarily
financing SMI as compared to those financing larger enterprises indi-
cate that arrears over three months were over three times higher for
the SMI financing institutions. In the case of DBP Philippines, data
on default costs of lending to SMI and large enterprises indicate that
default risk expenses for SMI are about double that of the large enter-
prises. Data on administrative costs of lending to SMI by these insti-
tutions indicate that these costs were on average two to three times
that of lending to large enterprises.



- 33 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations the following agreements and understandings
were reached with SYKB and the Government:
(a)  Terms and conditions of the Bank loan to the Government (para.
6.11).
(b)  Terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and SYKB (para. 6.11).
(c)  Allocation of at least one-third of the loan for financing SSI and
definition of SSI (para. 6.04), and provision for financing 40% of
the net cost of domestically produced machinery (para. 6.12).
(d)  Conditions for sub-loans (terms, interest rates) (para. 6.13).
(e)  Government's agreement to assume the foreign exchange risk for all
SSI sub-loans and for other TL sub-loans for financing imputed
foreign exchange costs (para. 6.13).
(f)  Free limit for sub-loans and review by the Bank of a percentage of
SSI and other sub-loans below the free limit. SYKB will compute
the ERR for all sub-projects exceeding US$750,000 investment
(para. 6.14).
(g)  SYKB will be permitted to charge a commission of 2% p.a. on all
sub-loans over and above its normal spread of 3.5% (para. 6.15).
(h)  SYKB's debt-equity limit to be increased to 9:1 from the existing
limit of 7:1 (para. 5.22). SYKB will prepare a study on the cost
and earnings of its present and potential sources of funds with a
view to ensure an adequate return to shareholders and a reasonable
financial structure.
(i)  SYKB has agreed to establish a fund financed by a charge of 0.5%
p.a. from its gross spread for financing technical assistance to
SYKB's clients and other agreed purposes (para. 6.07).
(j)  SYKB has agreed to contribute initial amounts to the technical
assistance fund on an interest free basis to be recovered from
future income accruing to the fund (para. 6.07).
(k)  SYKB has agreed to prepare a roster of qualified consultants by
June 30, 1981 classified by fields of specialization and periodic-
ally update such a roster to assist clients identify and recruit
suitable consultants. SYKB has agreed to initially assign at
least one person to supervise all technical assistance activities
(para. 6.06).



- 34 -
(1) SYKB will introduce a more systematic program of project super-
vision which will also provide for a comprehensive evaluation of
enterprises receiving technical assistance grants six months after
implementation of such assistance. SYKB has agreed to submit the
details of the program for the Bank's approval by July 1, 1981 and
implement the program within three months thereafter (para. 5.07).
(m)  SYKB will undertake a comprehensive evaluation of the implementa-
tion of the project, under terms of reference approved by the Bank
not later than June 30, 1983 which-would include an evaluation of
the technical assistance program, the functioning of the coopera-
tive arrangement with the commercial banks and any other matter
relating to the project (para. 6.08).
(n) SYKB will submit a signed protocol defining the arrangements
between commercial banks and SYKB to permit it to utilize the
commercial banks' branch network for project identification and
other purposes (para. 6.05).
(o) SYKB will make special efforts to promote and finance subprojects
Tn the twenty-three priority urban centers utilizing its own
resources as well as the branch network of cooperating commercial
banks (para. 6.01).
7.02     In addition, the following conditions of effectiveness were agreed
upon during negotiations:
(a) Signature between the Government and SYKB of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement satisfactory to the Bank, defining SYKB's role and the
principles and procedures reflected in the Loan Agreement
(para. 6.11).
(b) Execution of protocols (draft approved by the Bank) by commercial
banks and SYKB, defining the arrangement under which SYKB will be
permitted to utilize the branches of commercial banks for sub-
project identification and other purposes. As a minimum require-
ment, SYKB would execute a protocol with Is Bankasi, or with any
two other commercial banks (para. 6.05).



- 35 -
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Al Turkey: Prospects for Small-Medium Scale Industry Development and
Employment Creation (in three volumes). Report No. 2913-TU, September
1980.
B1 SYKB - Annual Reports, 1977, 1978 and 1979.
B2 Halk Bank, Draft Project Identification Report, March 1979.



DEFICIENCIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS OF SMI IN TURKEY
Technical Aspect                                                                                         Non-Technical Aspect
Unit Size                                                                                                                                                    Raw                                     Financial
in                       Work      Machinery   Product   Production   Quality    Working             Preventive        Project                        Material                     Management    Planning
Workers        Sector      Methods    Layout         Design      Planning     Control   conditions   Maintenance   Preparation   Bookkeeping   Procurement   Marketing   Functions    and Contr.
Up to 10   Engineering         3           1            2           1             3           3              3                1               3               3              3             1              1
10-99       including          3           3            3           3             3           3              3                3               1               3              3             3              3
100-199    Foundries           1           2            3           3             2           1              1                3               1               1              3             2              3
Up to 10   Woodworking         I            I           1           1             2           3              1                1               3               3              1             1              1
10-99       including          3           3            3           3             3           2              3                3               1               3              3             2              3
100-199    Furniture           2           2            2           3             3           1              2                3               1               1              3             3              3
Up to 10   Leather             3           1            3           1             3           3              1                1               3               3              3             1              1
10-99;    Footwear             2           3            3           3             3           3              3                3               1               1              3             3              3
100-199                        1           3            1           3             3           1              3                3               1               1              3             3              3
Up to 10   Chemicals           1            1           1           1             3           3              3                1               3               3              3             1              1
10-99       Plants and         3           3            3           3             2           1              2                3               1               3              3             3              3
100-199    Rubber Prod.        1           2            2           3             1           1              2                3               1               3              3             3              3
Up to 10   Clothing and        1           1            3           1             3           3              1                1               3               2              1             1              1
10-99       other made-        3           3            3           3             3           2              3                3               1               2              3             3              3
100-199    up goods            2           2            2           3             3           1              3                3               1               1              3             3              3
Legend:  I Slight Requirement; 2 Moderate Requirement; 3 Great Requirement
Work Methods:           Correct use of machines, tools, etc.; tooling,                      Project Preparation:.           Project evaluation and preparation of bankable loan
sequence of operations.                                                                            applications.
Machinery Layout:       Maximum use of space; arrangement of machines                       Bookkeeping:                    Keeping of simple accounts to show financial
to reduce transfer time.                                                                           position of the business.
Product Design:         Design of new products, modification of existing                    Raw Material Procurement:   Material selection, source identification, purchasing,
products to reduce cost or simplify production.                                                    importatPion procedures, inventory control.
Production Planning:  Maximum use of labor, machines and materials; work                    Marketing:                      Acquisition of market information, evaluation of market
flow; machine loading; job simplification, setting                                                 data, methods of distribution, export procedures.
Of standards.                                                      Management Functions:           Specialization of functions, job specifications,
Quality Control:        Inspection/texting materials and products to                                                        evaluation of performance, labor laws, social security
predetermined specifications.                                                                      regulations.
Working Conditions:   Safety and health aspects of workplace.                               Financial Planning and          Costing, pricing policy, budgeting, preparation of
Preventive              Systematic maintenance to avoid unscheduled                         Control:                        financial statements.
Maintenance:            stoppages.



- 37 -                   ANNEX 2
TURKEY
Interest Rates on Industrial Loans
and Final Cost of Borrowing
Effective January 1, 1981
A. BASE INTEREST RATES
I. Short-term loans (less than 2 years):
General            31%
Exports            22%
II.  Medium-term loans (2-5 years):
Certificate of Encouragement   33%
Exports                          24%
III.  Long-term loans (over 5 years):        36%
B. TAXES AND REBATES
I.  Taxes and Fees
Transaction tax                 25% of base rate
Interest equalization fee       15% of base rate
Commission                       2%
II.  Interest Rate Subsidies
Certificate of Encouragement 25% of base rate
Export undertaking              40% of base rate
Underdeveloped region           50% over base rebate rate
C. FINAL COST OF BORROWING
I. TL Loans
Medium-term Loan with Certificate
Less     Long-term
No Export      Export       Developed   Loan with
Undertaking  Undertaking       Region   Certificate
Base Rate (%)                      33              24           33            36.0
Transaction tax @25%                 8.25             -          8.25          9.0
Interest equalization
fee @15%                          4.95           3.6           4.95          5.4
Commission (%)                       2.0            2.0          2.0           2.0
Effective Interest Rate (%)        48.20         29.60          48.20         52.4
Rebate (%)                         -8.25          -9.60        -12.38         -9.0
Final cost (% p.a.)                 39.95         20.00         35.82         43.4
II.  Foreign Exchange Loans
Medium-term Loan with Certificate
Less
No Export      Export       Developed
Undertaking  Undertaking       Region
Base Rate (%)                       9.25           9.25          9.25
SYKB spread (%)                      3.50          3.50          3.50
Transaction tax @25%                 3.19             -          3.19
Interest equalization
fee @15%                          1.91          1.91           1.91
Commission (%)                       2.0           2.0           2.0
Effective interest rate (%)        19.85          16.66         19.85
Less rabates (%)                   -3.19          -5.10         -4.78
Final cost (% p.a.)                16.66         11.56          15.07



38 -
SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI                                 ANNEX 3
Approvals. Commitments and Disbursements:  1976 - June 1980
(TL 000')
1976             1977             1978            1979    _         .1980
No.  Amount      No.  Amount      No.  Amount      No.  Amount      No.  Amount
APPROVALS
Loans:I/Working Capital Loans
Local currency                    26    53,550    24    65,350    34   273,600    18   438,100         2    76,500
Investment Loans
Local currency                    27   376,500    15   235,300    23   492,500    20   453,415         7   356,542
Foreign currency                  11    72.840      5    50,978      -      -        14   342,294    11 1,251,567
Sub-total                    38   449,340    20   306,278    23   492,500    34  '795,709    18 1,608,109
Total Loans:            64   502,890    44   371,628    57   766,100    52 1,233,809    20 1,684,609
Equity Investments                           3      7,921     5    14,750       2     4,834      5    29,500      1     5,000
COMMITMENTS
Loans: Working Capital Loans
Local currency                    26    49,950    21    49,350    37   246,560    25   359,700         5    93,200
Investment Loans
Local currency                    34   334,500    16   213,840    32   457,000    18   269,166         6    66,137
Foreign currency                   8    50.288    10    92,238       -      -         3   107,576      3    99,275
Sub-total                    42   384.788    26   306,078    32   457,000    21   376,742          9   165,412
Total Loans:            68   434.738    47   355.428    69   703,560    46   736,442    14   258,612
Equity Investments                           3      7,921     5    14.750       2     4,834      5    29,500      -      -
DISBURSEMENTS
Loans: Working Capital Loans
Local currency                    26    49,950    21    49,350    33   246,560    23   322,620         5   125,930
Investment Loans
Local currency                    33   269,038    18   288,662    29   381,200    19   231,416    12   102,387
Foreign currency                   4    39,786    14   118,525       -      -         1     8,945      5   234,499
Sub-total                    37   308,a24    32   407,187    29   381,200    20   240,361    17   336,886
Total Loans:            63   358,774    53   456,537    62   627,76n    43   562,981    22   462,816
Equity Investments                           3      5,648     7      8,461     5      6,230      4    19,667      3     7,900
Average Size of Loan Commitments
Working Capital Loans                      1,921            2,350             6,664           14,388           18,640
Investment Loans
Local currency                           9,838           13,365           14,281            14,954           11,023
Foreign currency                         6,286            9,224             -              35,859           33,092
Average Size of Equity Investments                    2,640            2,950            2,417            5,900             -
Conversion Rate:  US$1-TL                         16.83            19.635           25.50            47.80            79.56
1/ Local and foreign currency loans to the same project are counted separately.



- 39-
ANNEX 4
SINAI YATIRIII VE KREDI BANKASI
Analysis of Approvals by Sector, Geographical Location,
Size. Reapayment Terms and Type of Proiedge' 1976 - Ju,ne 1980
MT Millions)
1976              1977              1978              1979          Jan.-June              TOTAL
1980        1976-June 1980
No. of            Nio. of           No. of            No. of             No. of            No. of
Loans  Amount   Loans  Amount   Loans  Amount   Loans  Amount   Loans  Amount   Loans  Amount  %
A. By Sector
Food products                     2     55.0        7      43.5       1      27.0        5     58.9        1    175.2       16    359.6   7.8
Beverages                         -     -           1       2.0       -      -          -      -           -      -          1       2.0   -
Textiles (Incl. spinning,         9    161.5        6    109.6        9    146.6         9    276.2        2    272.3       35    966.2  21.2
dyeing and finishing)
Clothirng                         3       8.0       1       2.0       1      15.0        1       8.8       -    -            6      33.8   0'.7
Lumber & wood products            -    -            -    -            -                  I       2.0       -    -            1       2.0   -
Wood-pulp & paper                 -    -            -    -            1       8.0        -    --    -                        I       8.0   0.2
Leather & leather products        1       3.0       1       5.0       1       4.0        1      12.0       -    -            4      24.0   0.5
Rubber products & tires           -    -            1      50.0       1       3.0        1     45.0        -    -            3      98.0   2.2
Chemicals                         7     39.8        6      39.6       3      61.0        7    111.6        1      41.6      24    293.6   6.4
Plastic products                  -    -            3      17.0       1       5.0        2       4.0       -    -            6      26.0   0.6
Structural clay products          2     22.5        -    -4                  22.0        1      3.0        -    -            7      37.5   0.8
Pottery, china &  earthen-    -    -                2      19.3       1      25.0        3     99.4        1      69.6       7    213.3   4.7
ware
Glass & glass products            2       3.5       1       1.5       -    -2                  61.5        -    -            5      66.5   1.5
cement                            -    -            -    --                              -    ---                            -      -       -
Cement products                   3      15.6       -                 -                 -     -1                    ,1       4      16.7   0.4
Metal smelting                    -    -                                                -      -         ----   --                  -       -
Iron, steel & other prod.         2     25.0        2      32.0       4      95.0       5    140.2         1    198.9       14    491.1  10.8
Metal products                    6     20.0        3       8.0       5      15.5       -6    245.1        6    441.6       26    730.2  16.0
Machinery & equipment             8     38.2        3       7.0      12    152.5         4     96.0        2      92.5      29    386.2   8.5
Electrical machinery.            11     66.7        4      27.4       9    101.5        2      38.7        3    235.7       29    470.0  10.3
appliances & supplies
Agricultural machinery            1       2.5       -    -2                  55.0       -    -                  -3                  57.5   1.3
& implements
Manufacture & repair              2      37.1       -    --                 ---            -        -                        2      37.1   0.8
of vehicles
Miscellaneous industries          5      14.5       3       7.7       2      30.0       2      31.4        2    156.1       14    239.7   5.3
TOTAL                      64    502.9       44    371.6       57     766.1       52  l.1233.8      20  l.684.6    237  4,559.0 1o0-0.
8. Geographical Locatiou 1/
I.   Eight most developed    45    364.5           31    250.4       39    454.1       34    736.6         7    316.1    156  2,121.7  46.5
regionLs
II.  Semi-developed regions  28    136.4            9    100.2       17    262.0       16    452.2        11  1,105.4       71  2,056.2  45.1
IIT. Least developed              1       2.0       4      21.0       1      50.0        2     45.0        2    263.1       10    381.1   8.4
regions
64    502.9       44    371.6       57    766.2       52  I1,33.8        20  1j.684.6    237  4590100.0
C. Size
Up to 200,000                                                                  -     -- - --  --                --                  -       -
200,001-500,000                   2       0.8       -    --                             -     --                -2                   0.8 -
500,0Ol-1,000.000                 6       6.0       3       2.4       2       2.0       -    --                 -11                 10.4   0.2
1,000.001-3,000,000              20      43.1      17      34.9      11      29.0        5      11.0       I       1.0      54     119.0   2.6
3,000,001-5,000,000               9      38.4       8      35.0      15      71.5        6     26.9        1       4.3      39     176.1   3.9
5,000,001-1O,000,O00              9      70.2       7      54.1       9      79.0        6     56.1        1       6.1      32    265.5   5.8
10,000,00l-20.000,000            13    192.3        5      75.2       7    104.0        14    202.0        -    -           39    573.5  12.6
20,000,001-30,000,000             4    112.1        1      30.0       7    177.0         7    175.0        1      22.5      20    516.6  11.3
30.000,001- 0,000,000             1     40.0        3    140.0        5    240.0         6    236.1        2      91.6      17    747.7  16.4
50,000,001-75,000,000             -    -            -    -            1      63.6        3    126.5        6    400.0       10    590.1  13.0
Over 75.000.001                   -    --                 --                -5    400.2                    8  1,159.1       13  1,559.3  34.2
TOTAL                      R      502.9V    *Z       71         37    76-6.1     5-2  1,-233.8      20  1,684.6    237  4,559.0 100.0
Average size of loans                     7.9      -        8.4      -      13.4               23.7               84.2             19.2
D. Repayment Terms
Less thanlIyear                   -    -            -     --    -                        1       3.9       2       5.4       3       9.3   0.2
1-5 years                        30     69.5       36    251.3       57    766.1       42    962.4         7    487.5    172  2,536.8  55.6
6 -10 years                      29    386.4        6     103.7       -    -             5    145.7        3    183.9       43    819.7  18.0
Over 10 years                     5     47.0        2      16.6     -7-    -             4    121.8        8  1,007.8       19  1,193.2  26.2
TOTAL                      64    502.9       44    371.6       57    766.1        52  1,233.8       20  1.684.6    237  4 559-0 100.0
E. Ty-pe                                                                -         a                                          .  
Fixed investment loans:
New projects                  23    227.9         8    146.8       11    251.0       14    384.3         8    966.3       64 .1,976.3  43.3
Expansion                     15    221.4        12    159.4       12    241.5       20    411.4       10    641.8       69  1,675.5  36.7
38    449.3      -20    3-06.2     23    49-2.5       -34    79_5.7     1-8  1,0.          33  3,651.8  80.06
Working capital loans            26      53.6      24      65.4      34    273.6        18    438.1        2      76.5    104    907.2  20.0
TOTAL                      64    502.9       44    371.6        57    766.1       52  1,233.8       20  1,684.6    237  4590100.0
1.1 According to classification followed by TSKB, i.e.:
I. Eight most developed regions: ProvinLces of Istanbul, Sakarya, Kocaoli and Bursa (North West Anatolia),
irmir (South West Anatolia) and Adans, Ankara, Icel (Central Anatolia).
11.  Semi developed regions:           Northweist and Southwest Anatolia, excluding provinces under 1.
III.  Least developed regions:          Central Anatolia, excluding provinces under I and entire Eastern Aniatolia.



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
SYTB
Summary Income Statements 1976-1979
(Millions of TL)
1976               1977                1978               1979
---- audited -------
Income
Interest and fees on loans                              169.9              187.8               252.7              388.0
Income from other investments                             3.0                5.4                11.5               19.8
Other income                                              1.5                 7.7                6.2                 9.2
Total income                                      174.4               200.9              270.4               417.0
Expenses
Interest and fees on borrowings                         136.4               56.8                91.8              182.8
Personnel costs                                          13.3               18.4                33.1               43.4
Taxes and fees                                            2.3                2.7              )    7               13.3
Other costs                                               3.1                2.9              )                     1.1
Provisions for bad and doubtful loans and
equity investments                                      -                  -                   -                 31.8
Total expenses                                    155.1                80.8              129.6               272.4
Income before tax                                        19.3              120.1               140.8              144.6
Tax on income                                             5.7               32.7                37.8               39.4
Net Income                                         13.6                87.4              103.0               105.2
Appropriations
Legal and other reserves                                  5.4               13.3                15.6               16.0
Dividends                                                 8.2               74.1                87.4               89.2
Tax adjustments                                                    -                   -                            -
Total                                              13.6                87.4              103.0               105.2
Ratios
Total income as %age of average total assets             13.0               13.3                14.6               17.2
Administrative expense as %age of average total
assets                                                  1.2                1.4                 1.8                1.8
Interest charges as %age of average medium and
long term debt                                        10.9                 4.2                5.8                 7.6
Interest income as %age of average loan portfolio    13.6                   13.5               14.8                16.0
Earnings before tax as %age of average net worth         33.6              162.5 1/            118.6               47.0
Net income as Zage of average net worth                  23.7              118.3                86.8               34.2
Dividend as Zage of net income                           60.3               84.8                84.8               84.8
Dividends as %age of year-end share capital              20.5              134.7 2/             87.4               22.3
1/ The substantial increase is due to no interest being charged on loans from shareholders. If a notional interest
of 11% on average balance of these loans is charged the ratio would reduce to49.3Zin 1977, 52.62 in 1978 and
26.9 in 1979.
2/ If it is assumed that loans from shareholders carried an interest of 11% per annum, the net return on capital
investment will be negative in 1977, 9.12 in 1978 and 11% in 1979.



-41                                             ANNEX 6
SYRB
Summary Balance Sheets 1976-1979
(Millions in TL)
Dec.31             Dec.31              Dec.31             Dec.31
1976               1977                1978               1979
-                           audited ---
ASSETS
Cash                                                      19.9               19.0                11.8                39.3
Sundry receivables                                        47.2               59.4                83.4               161.4
67.1              .78.4                95.2              200.7
Loans and investments:
Loans                                                  1,294.4            1,489.7             1,924.3            2,458.3
Equity Investments                                        33.0               41.5                47.7                67.4
Government and other bonds                                 0.8                 0.7                0.7                 0.4
1.328.2            1,531.9             1,972.7            2.526.1
Less provision for losses                                  -                   -                  -                  31.8
Net total loans and investments                  1,328.2             1.531.9             1,972.7            2,494.3
Fixed assets (net)                                         0.7                0.6                30.2                42.0
Deffered taxes                                             1.5                 2.0                -                   -
Total ASSETS                                     1.397.5             1,612.9            2.098.1             2,737.0
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Taxes due                                                  8.9               36.8                37.8               53.2
Other payables                                            11.3               20.8                31.7               47.9
Dividends                                                  8.2                74.1               87.4                89.2
28.4              131.7              156.9               190.3
Medium and long term debt:
Local currency
Shareholder banks                                      810.0              712.1               712.1              412.1
Government subordinated loans                          106.3              106.0               105.8               103.6
Central Bank                                            83.7              113.3               390.6               601.7
Foreign currency
AID                                                    201.1              215.7               225.5               323.0
EIB                                                    104.7              241.5               355.6              627.6
Exim Bank                                                -                  -                   -                  8.9
1,305.8            1.388.6             1,789.6            2,076.9
Staff Retirement Fund                                      3.6                 4.6                2.2                 3.8
Shareholders' equity:
Share capital                                             40.0                55.0              100.0              400.0
Logal reserve                                              8.0                21.4               33.8                50.0
Contingency reserve                                        4.7                 4.7               15 6                16.0
Other reserves                                             7.0                 6.9               1  6
Total equity                                         59.7               88.0               149.4              466.0
Total Liabilities and Equity                  1,397.5             1.612.9            2,098.1             2,737.0
Long term debt/equity ratio                               21.9                15.8               12.0                 4.5
Current ratio                                              2.4                 0.6                0.6                 1.1



- 42 -
SINAI YATIRIM YE KREDI BANKASI                     ANNEX 7
S-sMary of Arrears
(TL Thousands)
Dec. 31    Dec. 31    Dec. 31    Dec. 31    June 30
1976       1977        1978       1979        1980
Arrears
Principal: Up to 3 months                625         433      5,272         -        5,200
More than 3 months          4,414-   28,280       17,558      9,237      12,081
Interest:  Up to 3 months                323         -        4,095         691        -
More than 3 months          1,363      8,605       3,682      2,150      11,821
Total:     Up to 3 months                948         433      9,367         691      5,200
More than 3 months          5,777     36,885      21,240     11,387      23,902
Total Arrears:                  6,725     37,318      30,607      12,078     29,102
Loans affected by arrears of more than
3 months                                 66,205      61,138     77,681      72,633    117,333
Total loan portfolio                  1,294,398  1,489,743  1,924,286  2,458,293  3,223,968
Arrears of more than 3 months as % of
portfolio
- Principal                           0.3         0.2        0.9         0.4        0.4
- Interest                            0.1         0.1        0.2         0.1        0.4
- Toeal                               0.4         0.3        1.1         0.5        0.8
Total arrears as % of portfolio
- Principal                           0.4         0.2        1.2         0.4        0.5
- Interest                            0.1         0.1        0.4         0.1        0.4
- Total                               0.5         0.3        1.6         0.5        0.9
Portfolio affected by arrears of more
than 3 months as Z of total portfolio   5.1          4.1        4.0         3.0        3,6



SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI
Sectoral Distribution of Loans outstanding
(TL Millions)
December 31. 1976          December 31, 1977             December 31, 1978          December 31, 1979              June 30, 1980
Sector                                Nutmber  Amount    7%    Number  Amount           %      Number  Amount    %        Number  Amount        %      Number  Amount       Z
Food Products                            35      126.5    9.8        23      162.9    10.9         24      194.6  10.1        22      236.7    9.6        21    278.1    8.6
Beverages                                 4        4.7    0.4         4        2.4      0.2         2        0.4   -           -          -    -           -          -     -
Textiles (Including spinning,
dyeing and finishing)                  64      340.8   26.3        50      327.0    21.9         49      375.9  19.5        47      533.3   21.7        43    495.6   15.4
Clothing                                 10       10.6    0.8         7        8.1      0.5         5       16.1   0.8         7       28.0    1.1         7      24.9    0.8
Lumber and Wood Products                  8       10.0    0.8         3        1.1      0.1         -          -   -           1        1.8    0.1          1      1.6    0.1
Wood-Pulp 'and Paper                       6      18.5    1.4         3       16.2      1.1         4       20.4   1.1         2       15.6    0.6          2     12.7    0.4
Leather and Leather Products              2        8.0    0.6         2        .7.0     0.5         1        3.3   0.2         3       13.9    0.6         3      11.8    0.4
Rubber Products and Tires                  7       2.1    0.2         3       50.4      3.4         3       40.6   2.1         2       27.4    1.1         4      62.1    1.9
Chemicals                                32       86.4    6.7        31      115.4      7.7        24      116.9   6.1        18      137.3    5.6        17    277.3    8.6
Plastic Products                         12       11.1    0.8        11       17.5      1.2         7       19.6   1.0         7       17.4    0.7         7      14.4    0.4
Structural Clay Products                 11       19.1    1.5         9       18.8      1.3        12       34.5   1.8        10       32.3    1.3        10      29.8    0.9
Pottery, China and Earthenware            4       33.5    2.6         6       49.3      3.3         7       87.8   4.6         7      132.7    5.4         8    321.3   10.0    &-
Class and Glass Products                 11       35.0    2.7         9       35.6      2.4         6       32.3   1.7         5       39.7    1.6         4      53.1    1.6
Cement                                    6       30.9    2.4         5       15.8      1.1         2        2.1   0.1         -          -    -            -         -     -
Cement Products                           6       12.6    1.0         6       14.3      0.9         6       13.6   0.7         6       15.1    0.6         7      19.7    0.6
Metal Smelting                             3      33.2    2.6         1       35.6      2.4         1       36.2   1.9         1       50.9    2.1          1     76.4    2.4
Iron, Steel and Other Products           27      103.1    8.0        22      100.9      6.8        14      156.3   8.1        14      179.2    7.3        13    199.6    6.2
Metal Products                            21      54.9    4.2        18       73.8      4.9        19       95.1   5.0        21      217.6    8.9        21    335.3   10.4
Machinery and Equipment                   50     129.9   10.0        43      136.7      9.2        40      214.5  11.2        37      225.4    9.2        39    324.0   10.0
Electrical Machinery, Appliances
and Supplies                           32      106.5    8.2        32      150.9    10.1         38      254.6  13.2        36      277.3   11.3        34    325.9   10.1
Agricultural Machinery and
Implements                              5       20.8    1.6         4       17.7      1.2         6       46.1    2.4        4       56.9    2.3         3      67.3    2.1
Manufacture and Repair
of Vehicles                             2        5.5    0.4         2       38.2      2.6         2       48.3    2.5        2       76.6     3.1        2    113.5    3.5
Miscellaneous Industries                  28      90.7    7.0        25       94.1      6.3        24      114.0   5.9        19      142.2      5.8      17    179.7    5.6
TOTAL                              386   1,294.4  100.0        319   1,489.7   100.0         296   1,924.2 100.0       271   2,458.3  100.0         264  3,224.0  100.0
>



ANNEX 9
-44-
S Y K B
PROJECTED LOAN APPROVALS
COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984
A. Foreign Currency ($000)
Approvals                      18,541   23,777   30,034   38,801   44,301
Commitments                     4,562   19,121   28,127   33,801   38,371
Disbursements                   6,205   18,079   24,454   31,213   36,944
B. Local Currency (TL Million)
Approvals                       1,200       990    1,089    1,252    1,440
Commitments                       577      964       965    1,102    1,267
Disbursements                     674       959      939    1,061    1,218



-45-
ANNEX 10
SYKB
Summary of Projected Income Statements
1980-1984
(TL millions)
1980        1981        1982        1983         198L
INCOME
Income from TL loans                       656.2?       528.1        710.1       879.6      1,032.3
Income from foreign currency loans         (      )      319.4        620.3       965.1      1,L35.8
Dividends from equity participation           16.9        25.0         27.5        300          32.5
Other income                                              17.S         1q.0        PO.5         21.5
Total income                                  18o.0                1,276..      1,895.2      2,522.1
EXPENSES
Financial expenses                           319.2       )'56.5       810.1     1,175.1      1,593.6
Personnel expenses                           76.5         86.5       130.0        195.C        292.0
Provision for termination indemnity           1.5          3.4          5.1         7.6         11.0
Other administrative exDenses                 6.5          9.0        10.0         11.0         12.0
Taxes and dues                               23.2         25.3        28.9         32.5         36.1
Depreciation                                   1.2         1.5          1.6         1.6          1.6
Miscellaneous expenses                           -6.o                   r.o         6.C
Subtotal                                    428&.        588.2       991.7      1 428.8     1,952.3
Provision for bad debts                      29.6         11.0         IL.O        17.0         20.5
Total expenses                              457.7        599.2     1,005.7      1,445.8      1,972.8
Income before taxes                         22h.0        290.8        371.2       L49.4        s49.3
Taxes                                       118.7        154.0       193.0        229.C        275.0
NET INCOME                                   1Or.3       136.8        178.2       220.L        274.3
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCCME
Legal reserves                               15.7         20.1         26.2        32.4         40.3
Dividends                                     88.o       114.2        148.8       184.0        229.1
Staff bonuses                                 1.6          2.L ?.2                  4.C          4.9
Total                                       105.3        136.8        178.2       220.4        274.3
Total income as % of average
total assets                               19.8         17.         19.5         19.9         20.2
Administrative expenses as % of
average total assets                        2.4          1.9          2.0         2.2          2.k
Earnings before tax as % of
average net worth                          47.0         58.3        71.1         81.5         93.4
Dividend as % of net income                   83.5        83.5         83.6        83.6         83.6
Dividend as % of share capital               22.0         28.6         37.2        L6.o         57.2
Dividend as % of share capital
and shareholders' interest-free loan       10.8         1L.i         18.3        21.5         24.3
Interest coverage                              1.4         1.?          1.2         1.2          1.2
Debt-service coverage                         1.2          1.1          1.1         1.1          1.1



-46-
AXNEX 11
SYKB
Projected Sources and Applications of Funds 1980-1984
(TL Millions)
1980         1981         1982         1983         1984
SOURCES
Profit before taxes and provisions for
possible losses                                     253.6        301.8        335.2        L66.4        569.8
Add back:  depreciation                                 1.2          1.5           1.6          1.6          1.6
provision for staff
termination indemnity                     1.5          3.4          5.1          7.6          11.0
Increase in TL equivalent of foreign
currency loans                                      892.5          -            -            -
Loan collections:  Local currency                     402.1        471.6        525.3        668.8        806.0
Foreign currency                 455.7         L11.6        368.7        571.8        840.7
Increase in loans from shareholder banks                -            -            -           45.0          85.0
Increase in Central Bank rediscount facility          h74.6        670.6        627.9        709.5        615.4
Foreign currency loan withdrawals:
EIB                                5S8.2        951.9        297.L          -
IBRD
Textile                           _          409.7        546.2         409.7          _
SMI                               -          284.5      1,005.2      1,612.2         739.7
Unidentified                         -            -          377.3        819.8      2,623.7
Decrease in Saving Bonds                                -            0.1          0.1          0.1           -
Increase in current liabilities                       113.9        170.4        145.3        166.0        197.0
Total sources                                       3,159.3      3,677.1      4,285.3      53L78.5      7,7
APPLICATIONS
Repayments of loans:  Local currency                  199.3        209.6        214 2        403.2        538.4
Foreign currency              455.7        411.6         368.7        571.8        840.7
Payment of other obligations                          208.3        270.7        345.C        417.0        509.0
Increase in TL equivalent of foreign
currency loans                                      892.5          -            -            -
Loan disbursements:  Local currency                   674.0        959.5        938.9      1,061.2      1,218.1
Foreign currency               564.2      1,646.0      2,226.1      2,841.7       3,363.4
Increase in equity investments                         21.9         25.7         30.0         40.0
increase in other loans                                 2.0          0.9          1.0          1.0          1.0
Increase in fixed assets                                4.2          1.1          3.0          -             _
Increase in other assets                              133.2        132.4        156.0        109.0        183.0
Increase (Decrease) in cash                             4.0         19.6        (27.6)        33.6         (8.7)
Total applications                                  3,159.3    T3,6771        7,225.3      5,478.5      6,689.9



-47-                                     ANNEX 12
SYK
Projected Balance Sheets for the End of 1980-1984
(TL millions)
Dec.31      Dec.31      Dec.31       Dec.31       Dec.31
1980        1981        1982         1983         1984
,SSETS
Cash and cash due from banks                           43.3        62.9        35.3          68.9         60.2
Accrued interest receivable                           273.8       397.0       542.0         636.o        803.0
Current maturities of term loans                      859.6       894.o    1,240.6       1,646.7       2,340.6
Sundry receivables                                     20.8        30.0        41.0         56.0          72.0
Current assets                                      1,197.5     1,33.             9         53,2
Term loans
Local currercy                                    1,323.0    1,705.3      1,975.4      2,230.6       2,485.5
Foreign currency                                  1,548.7    2,820.2      4,177.1      6,178.1       8,16L.1
Total term loans                                    2,871.7     4,525.5     6,152.5      8,408.7    10,649.6
Less provisions for bad and doubtful loans             66.5        77.5        91.5        108.5         129,0
Net term lcans                                      2,805.2          .0     6              ,300.2    10,520.6
Investments and other loans;
Equities                                             89.3       115.0       145.0         185.0        230.0
Bonds                                                 0.3         0.2         0.1           -            -
Loans to personnel                                    2.1         3.0         4.o           5.0          6.0
91.7       118.2     -T9.           190.0        236.0
Fixed assets:
Assets                                               49.9        51.0        54.c          54.0         54.o
L.ess accumulated depreciation                        3.7         5.2         6.8          8.4         10.0
Net fixed assets                                     46.2        45.8        47.2         45.           44o
Total Assets                                        4,14o.6    5,995.9      8,il6.2    10,943.4      14,076.4
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Accrued interest payable                               39.1       108.0       148.0        201.0         260.0
Accrued taxes                                          10.3        23.0        31.0         42.0          54.0
Sundry debts                                           42.9        69.1        92.1        122.1         156.1
Current maturities                                    621.2       612.9       975.0      1,379.1       2,024.5
Taxes payable                                         118.7       154.0       193.0        229.0         275.0
Dividends and bonuses payable                          89.6       116.7       152.0        188.0         234.0
Current liabilities                                   921.8     1,083.7     1,591.1      2,161.2       3,003.6
Term debts less current maturities:
Local currency:  Shareholder banks' funds             412.1       412.1       412.1        457.1         542.1
AID (TL)                              95.4        91.3        87.2          82.1         75.8
Central Bank                         675.6     1 078-1     1 306 9      1,483.1       1 657 7
Subtotal                        1,183.1     1,581.5     1,806.2      2,022.3      2,275.6
Foreign currency                                    1,548.7    2,820.2      4,177.1      6,178.1       8,164.1
Total term debts                                    2,731.8     4,401.7     5,983.3      8,200.4     10,439.7
Employees' termination indemnities                      5.3         8.7        13.8         21.4         32.4
Shareholders' equity
Authorized and paid-up capital                      400.0       400.0       400.0         400.0        400.0
Reserves                                             66.o        81.7       101.8        128.0         160.4
Reserves allocated from current year's profit        15.7        20.1        26.2         32.4          40.3
Shareholders' equity                              4T1.7         501.8       528.0        507          6oo.7
Total liabilities and equity                        4,140.6     5,995.9     8,116.2    10,943.4    14,076.4
Debt/equity ratio                                     4.7:1       6.9:1       9.X:1       12.4:1       15.4:1
Current ratio                                         1.3:1       1.3:1       1.2:1        1.1:1         1.1:1



