Document of                 FLE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2956-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THE
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
LABOR INTENSIVE INDUSTRY PROJECT
February 11, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        July 1979     Jan. 1980 /1    October 1980    Jan. 31, 1981
US Dollar 1          TL 47.10 /2    TL 70.0 /3      TL 83.50 /3         TL 90.0
TL 1           =    US$ 0.02        US$ 0.01        us$ 0.01           US$ 0.01
/1  Since January 1980 the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners. TL 70/$1 was
used for this report.
/2 Except for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilizer raw
materials, and exports of agricultural products benefitting from official
price supports, for which it was TL 35 = US$1.00.
/3  Except for imports of fertilizers and insecticides/pesticides, as well as
raw materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the rate was
TL 55 - US$1.00, and is TL 70.0 = US$1.00 as from October 1980.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey          ; March 1 to February 28
Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi
Bankasi A.O. (SYKB)       ; January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COFACE  -   Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of France
(Compaigne Francaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterior)
DESIYAB -   State Industry & Labor Investment Bank
(Devlet Sanayi ve Isci Yatirim Bankasi)
DYB     -   State Investment Bank (Devlet Yatirim Bankasi)
EIB     -   European Investment Bank
Eximbank-   Export Import Bank (U.S.A.)
MSI     -   Medium Scale Industry
TSKB    -   Turkish Industrial Development Bank
-   (Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S.)
SEE     -   State Economic Enterprises
SIDO    -   Small Industry Development Organization
SMI     -   Small-Medium Scale Industry
SSI     -   Small Scale Industry
SYKB    -   Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi A.O.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
LABOR INTENSIVE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower                 Republic of Turkey
Beneficiary              Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi (SYKB)
Loan Amount              US$40 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms and
Conditions   :         15 years including 3 years grace with interest at
9.6 percent.
Relending
Terms         :        The Government will relend an estimated $20 million in
foreign exchange, to SYKB to finance sub-loans to
medium scale enterprises (MSI), for imported equip-
ment, at the Bank's interest rate of 9.6 percent per
annum. SYKB will on lend with a spread of 5.5 per
annum plus taxes and charges with the foreign exchange
risk assumed by the sub-borrowers. The remaining
estimated $20 million will be relent in Turkish Liras
(TL), to finance all sub-loans to small-scale enter-
prises (SSI) for both imported and locally produced
equipment, and sub-loans for other enterprises to be
used for financing domestically manufactured equip-
ment. The Government will bear the foreign exchange
risk for this part. The interest rate to
sub-borrowers for these sub-loans will be the freely
established Lira interest rate in the domestic market,
currently 30 to 52 percent per annum inclusive of
taxes and charges, but excluding varying rebates
extended to foster exports, regional development and
the like. SYKB will receive a spread of 5.5 percent
per annum. The Borrower's relending rate to SYKB will
be SYKB's interest rate to the sub-borrowers, less
taxes and charges and SYKB's spread. At prevailing
rates, it will vary from 20 to 32 percent. SYKB will
transfer 0.5 percent per annum from its spread on both
types of sub-loans into a Technical Assistance Fund.
It will pay a one-time fee of 1.5 percent to
commercial banks on those sub-loans screened by their
network. The maturity of the Government's loan to
SYKB will be based on the aggregate composite
amortization schedule of SYKB's individual sub-loans.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The Project              The project will provide financial assistance through
SYKB to eligible enterprises for labor-intensive sub-
projects at a cost per job not exceeding US$15,000.
Beneficiaries are expected to be mostly small and
medium scale firms (SMI), which offer the greatest
potential of generating employment at a relatively low
investment cost per job. To further increase the
employment impact of the project, one-third of the
Bank loan is earmarked for SSI investments, which are
generally more labor-intensive than larger firms, with
fixed assets after completion of the investment less
than $350,000 if new, or $500,000 if for expansion.
The project also envisages the provision of technical
assistance, through the services of Turkish industrial
consultants, to SYKB's sub-borrowers, with SYKB
bearing 80 percent of the costs out of the Technical
Assistance Fund. It will support sub-projects
primarily in 23 priority urban centers, which account
for over 75 percent of urban unemployment in Turkey.
In addition to promoting direct employment benefits,
the project would support the development of domestic
capital goods industries by financing the imputed
import content of domestically produced machinery.
The proposed collaboration between SYKB and commercial
banks for identifying potential SSI sub-projects in
the smaller urban centers and the proposed technical
assistance scheme are novel elements in Turkey.
However, in view of SYKB's commitment to the project
objectives and its willingness to take special
initiatives, the risks associated with these programs
are acceptable.
Disbursements                                US$ Million
Bank FY       1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual         8.7    12.9    12.6       5.8
Cumulative    8.7    21.6    34.2    40.0
Economic Rate
of Return    ;         Not applicable
Appraisal
Report                 No. 3189a-TU dated February 6, 1981 prepared by IDF
Division EMENA Region.



INTERNATIONAL FiANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A LABOR INTENSIVE INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$40 million to help finance
the foreign exchange costs of a Labor Intensive Industry Project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace, with interest at
9.6 percent per annum. The proceeds of the loan will be relent to Sinai
Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi (hereinafter called SYKB), with repayment set to be
substantially in conformity with the aggregate of the sub-project amortization
schedules, at an interest rate that will leave SYKB with a gross spread of
5.5 percent, inclusive of fee and commissions payable to participating
commercial banks of up to 1.5 percent, on the loan proceeds it onlends to its
sub-borrowers.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.       A Special Economic Mission visited Turkey in April/May 1979 to
evaluate the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-1983). Its report entitled "Turkey;
Policies and Prospects for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU dated December 12, 1979) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 26, 1979 and its Postscript
on March 24, 1980. A small mission visited Turkey in May 1980 to update
information and Bank analysis of the country's economic prospects. Its
findings are reflected below. Annex I contains the Basic Country Data.
Development Trends and Policies
3.       As the result of a strong commitment to rapid growth and moderni-
zation, GDP increased at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent, 6.7 percent
and 7.2 percent respectively, during the First Plan (1963-67), Second Plan
(1968-1972), and Third Plan (1973-1977) periods. This compares favorably with
the experience of 55 "middle income" developing countries, whose GDP growth
averaged a little under 6.0 percent per annum between 1960-1978. Moreover,
the relatively high growth rate in Turkey was achieved without signif .cant
deposits of oil or other important natural resources.
4.       Growth was accompanied by significant social changes.  Although
population grew annually at 2.5 percent, rapid GDP growth allowed substantial
advances in per capita income. However, rising income levels were not accom-
panied by better income distribution. Although basic needs have been met,
significant sectoral and regional inequalities in income continue.
1/ This Part is identical to Part I of the President's Reports on the
Structural Adjustment Loan (Supplement) (P-2888-TU), the Bati Raman
Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project (P-2886-TU), and the
Petroleum Exploration Project (P-2887-TU), all dated October 30, 1980.



- 2 -
5.       The public sector has played a key role in Turkey's development.
Between 1963-1977, its share in total fixed investment fluctuated around 50
percent, and its share of fixed investment in manufacturing increased from 21
to nearly 49 percent. The public sector dominates basic industries. Never-
theless, the private sector has emerged as an increasingly important and
dynamic element in the economy and is beginning to shift its orientation from
consumer goods to intermediate and investment goods, and from the domestic
market to exports. Private sector investment increased at nearly 11.5 percent
per year in real terms during 1967-1977 compared to an average annual increase
of only 4.8 percent between 1963 and 1967.
6.       Turkish development between 1963-1977, however, exhibited a number of
structural characteristics which are of considerable relevance for future
development policy. First, for a country of Turkey's size and per capita
income, it has a very low level of exports relative to GDP--about 4 percent in
1977--as against a more or less "normal" import level of around 20 percent for
middle income countries; this highlights the vulnerability of the balance of
payments and the importance of export development to sustain the needed inflow
of foreign exchange resources. Second, while the level of investment relative
to GDP increased rapidly and compares favorably with other developing
countries, mobilization of domestic savings has lagged; the ratio of domestic
savings to GDP, is well below the average for middle income countries; the
growing gap between domestic savings and investment led in the mid-1970s to a
relatively high level of external borrowing, and domestic inflationary
pressures emanating from excess demand and deficit financing. Third, a
relatively high proportion of the labor force is still in agriculture, reflec-
ting significant disguised unemployment and the need for accelerated job
creation in non-agricultural activities; that in industry is low compared to
other large middle income countries; furthermore, the relatively inadequate
generation of additional employment has become more serious following the near
cessation of workers' migration to Europe since 1974. Fourth, despite the
growing dynamism of the private sector, the industrial scene is dominated by
inefficient State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) which have not been exposed to
market forces and serve not only economic but social goals; their growing
deficits have imposed an inflationary burden on the budget, while their ambi-
tious investment programs were financed through Central Bank borrowings, since
their controlled prices have, until recently not enabled most of them to
generate sufficient cash to cover costs or investment expenditures. Fifth,
due to the successes achieved since the early sixties through economic
planning, there has been an increasing tendency to plan to a micro-level and
seek to achieve changes through administrative fiat; however, the economy has
reached a stage where such excessive reliance on this becomes counter produc-
tive; planning needs to be increasingly geared towards setting a framework in
which market forces could secure the desired economic results in both the
public and private sectors.
The Economic Crisis and Stabilization Efforts
7.       These institutional and structural characteristics of the economy
made it particularly vulnerable to the sharp increase in import prices (inclu-
ding oil) in 1974 and the simultaneous occurence of recession, inflation and



- 3 -
rising unemployment in the industrial countries. These factors played a key
part in the deterioration of the economy. However, the politically weak
governments, their policies in response to these factors and their efforts to
pursue a high growth policy despite the worsening international environment
through increasing reliance on short-term external financing, together created
forces that brought about the economic crisis in mid-1977 which is still con-
tinuing. The detailed analysis of this crisis, and of Turkey's attempts to
stabilize the economy in the short-run up to late 1979, is provided in the
abovementioned Special Economic Report and Postscript, as well as in paras. 8
to 15 of the President's Report (dated February 29, 1980) for the Structural
Adjustment Loan approved by the Board on March 25, 1980.
8.       Despite domestic and international efforts, 1979 was another diffi-
cult year for the economy; production stagnated, unemployment increased,
inflation accelerated, the balance of payments position remained tight, export
performance was poor, severe import rationing continued and the external debt
position remained precarious. Policy initiatives taken till then proved
inadequate to reverse the tide, as political and economic uncertainties con-
tinued to erode the impact of the measures taken.
9.       Compared to a growth of 3 percent in 1978, GDP stagnated in 1979.
Value added in agriculture increased by 2.5 percent, and in services by about
1 percent, but in industry value added declined by about 2 percent. In agri-
culture, further growth was held back by a sizeable decline in production of
industrial crops, mainly cotton, and a bad olive crop; the area cultivated
declined, due to shortages of fuel and fertilizers. In industry, worsening
shortages of imported raw materials and energy, especially oil, led to a
decline in production of about 3.5 percent. Production of manufacturing SEEs
declined by about 2 percent, and was manifested by decreases of 28 percent in
cement production, 9 percent in steel production and 51 percent in certain
petroleum production and processing operations. In contrast, the construction
and transport sectors grew modestly, but insufficiently to overcome the
decline in other sectors. This stagnation was accompanied by unprecedented
inflation of about 65 percent in 1979.
10.      The overall public sector deficit increased from TL 80 billion in
1978 to TL 132 billion in 1979. It was financed mainly by borrowing from the
Central Bank (TL 70 billion). The consolidated budget and the operations of
the SEEs were almost equally responsible for the enlarged deficit. The
deterioration in the consolidated budget was caused mainly by a sharp increase
in transfers to the SEEs, which in 1979 amounted to TL 89 billion.
11.      On the external account, there was a marginal decline in the value of
recorded exports of goods to $2.3 billion, although in volume terms, exports
actually declined by an estimated 17 percent. The value of merchandise
imports was about 10 percent higher than the previous year at $5.1 billion;
but due to substantial price increases, the volume is estimated to have
declined by 19 percent. The current account deficit in 1979 was the same as
in 1978, i.e. around $1.7 billion.



- 4 -
12.      Turkey achieved some success in diversifying the sources, and
increasing the level, of M&LT commitments, including $250 million in project
credits from the Saudi Fund. Perhaps the most important arrangement arrived
at was the May 1979 OECD sponsored pledging of $1.45 billion in special assis-
tance, including about $900 million in M&LT bilateral credits and export
credits, besides $407 million of medium-term credits from commercial banks
(finalized in September 1979). However, actual capital inflows were about the
same as the previous year (see para. 18 for rescheduling in 1980).
13.      Also, throughout 1979, Turkey made a major effort to alleviate the
critical burden of external debt through: (a) slowing the growth of shortterm
liabilities; (b) debt relief arrangements; and (c) efforts to pursue new
sources of credits, especially M&LT credits. The first debt relief operation,
arranged through the OECD Consortium for Turkey in May 1978, involved consoli-
dation of $1.14 billion in arrears on guaranteed short-term and bilateral M&LT
debt, as well as amounts due over the thirteen month period May 21, 1978 to
June 30, 1979. A second major rescheduling took place in July 1979, involving
payments of about $1.02 billion on official bilateral and private guaranteed
credits due between July 1, 1979 and June 30, 1980. A third major arrange-
ment, finalized in July and August 1979 with commercial banks, rescheduled
convertible lira deposits ($2.3 billion), banker's credits ($429 million) and
third party reimbursement credits ($300 million). About $317 million in oil
debt was also rescheduled. The total amount thus rescheduled was about $5.5
billion. This was perhaps the largest debt rescheduling operation anywhere.
Even so, net arrears of about $500 million emerged given the remaining high
debt service burden in 1979.
January 1980 Structural Adjustment Program and Policy Objectives
14.      Against this background, it was quite clear that drastic and painful
stabilization measures were not enough to reverse the adverse economic tide.
What was needed, was a major program of long-term structural adjustments, if
the economy was first to be nursed back to normalcy and then to resume viable
growth. Such a bold and far-reaching program of policies to effect structural
adjustments in the economy over the medium term was announced on January 25,
1980, accompanied by initial measures to implement adjustments in certain
critical areas. These were described and discussed in detail in the Presi-
dent's Report (No. P-2725-TU dated February 29, 1980) for the Structural
Adjustment Loan. The policy objectives underlying, the program, and the
measures it initiated, represent a basic departure from past planning objec-
tives. Turkey has undertaken, through it, the essential first steps to foster
major structural and institutional changes in the key economic areas.
15.      The program's stated goal of "bringing about a major reorientation of
the economy" calls for: (i) greater reliance on market mechanisms and forces,
by both the public and private sectors; (ii) reduction in the rate of infla-
tion; (iii) improved management of the balance of payments and external debts;
(iv) policies to encourage the public and private sectors to be efficient and
internationally competitive; (v) the implementation of rational exchange rate



- 5 -
policies and of measures encouraging exports; (vi) domestic resource mobiliza-
tion efforts to be substantially augmented through increased tax efforts,
realistic SEE pricing, and increased private savings via the banking system
and the development of financial markets; (vii) an investment policy aimed at
fuller utilization of existing productive capacity and completion of ongoing
projects requiring modest inputs, and tailored to scarce resources; and
(viii) conditions to stimulate foreign investments in oil, industry and agri-
culture.
16.      Successful implementation of this program over the medium-term, will
require persistence and courageous action on the part of the Government. It
will also call for substantial support from the international community, with-
out which it is unlikely to succeed. However, if Turkey implements it vigor-
ously, and periodically makes critical in-depth reviews as to the impact of
the measures and what further modifications and adjustments are needed to
achieve the program's economic goals, it will strengthen the basis for
Turkey's creditworthiness and re-establish a path of stable economic growth.
17.      Following the announcement of this program, the IMF approved a modi-
fication of the terms of the July 1979 Standby Arrangement and the release of
larger second and third tranches on February 21 and March 24, 1980. In addi-
tion, SDR 71.6 million ($93 million) in compensatory financing for export
shortfalls was provided on February 21, 1980, together with the modification
of the Standby. Together, this resulted in the provision of $301 million (SDR
231.6 million), with the remaining $26 million (SDR 20 million) to be provided
in June. However, on June 18, this Standby was cancelled. Instead, the IMF
Board approved a new three-year Standby Arrangement involving SDR 1.25 billion
($1.63 billion), with SDR 460 million ($600 million) in the first year, SDR
400 million ($522 million) in the second year and SDR 390 million ($509
million) in the third year. The key conditions of the new Standby are that:
(i) exchange rate policy is to be kept more flexible; (ii) the financial
position of the public sector is to be improved, mainly as a result of the
restructuring of the operational policies of the SEEs; (iii) monetary condi-
tions are to be kept extremely tight, as a result of the observance of limits
on Central Bank lending; and (iv) interest rates are to be adjusted to reflect
market conditions.
18.      In addition, Germany took the lead in organizing the provision of
sizeable external assistance, as well as a further debt relief operation. In
meetings under OECD auspices in March and April, $1.16 billion of bilateral
aid was pledged, with much more rapid disbursements than in 1979. The Bank
also supported OECD's and IMF's efforts through a $200 million Structural
Adjustment Loan in March 1980. Furthermore, about $2.5 billion in service
payments to OECD countries on public and publicly-guaranteed debts falling due
prior to June 1983 were rescheduled, again under OECD auspices, in July 1980.
This included all arrears up to June 30, 1980, payments due prior to June 1983
on debt not previously rescheduled, and payments due up to June 1981 on debt
already rescheduled in 1978 or 1979. Ninety percent of these sums were
rescheduled over 8 to 10 years, including 4 to 5 years of grace. With these
developments, Turkey secured debt relief estimated at $1.1 billion in 1980 and



- 6 -
another $0.8 billion in 1981, with smaller amounts thereafter. The only size-
able new commitment in recent months has been a $250 million cash loan on 15
year low-interest terms from Saudi Arabia, of which $100 million has been dis-
bursed, with another $100 million scheduled for December and the balance for
March 1981. Turkey has approached leading commercial banks to secure a
softening of the terms of the August 1979 rescheduling agreement. After con-
siderable delay due to wariness on the part of banks both of a new reschedu-
ling and, to some extent, of extending new credit to Turkey, a modest syndi-
cated loan is under discussion. The Government will try to reduce to the
extent possible the current and prospective large net outflow of funds to the
commercial banks.
Economic Developments in 1980 and Outlook for 1981
19.      As expected, the initial impact of the January 1980 package has been
to exacerbate many of the economic pressures. Uncertainty about the course of
future policies and about the timing and pace of economic recovery, as well as
tight monetary conditions aimed at reducing aggregate demand, have slowed
investments and economic growth. Devaluation and the removal of price con-
trols on both private business and SEEs, while necessary to alleviate allo-
cative distortions in the economy, contributed to a large initial upsurge in
the rate of inflation. Also as expected, the financial rehabilitation of the
SEEs and their reorientation to market conditions has only begun, and will
require more fundamental changes than price liberalization alone over the
medium term. Budgetary transfers to the SEEs to cover remaining operating
subsidies and investment expenditures have continued to rise. The budget
position as a whole continues to be weak. It is still too early to say
whether the initial adjustment phase is over. However, preliminary data
suggest that the worst may be past. Inflation has come down sharply, and
indeed more rapidly than expected (next paragraph); the impact of higher
import prices (especially for oil) has been alleviated (though so far only for
1980) by a commensurate increase in capital inflows; and 1980 saw a very
modest resumption of economic growth.
20.      For the full year, GDP growth is likely to be between zero and 2 per-
cent, with growth in agriculture of about 2.5 percent, but stagnation in
industry. Public investment has continued to fall in real terms for lack of
financial resources, and private investment remains depressed. Unemployment
is still rising, and real disposable incomes are falling. As mentioned above,
inflation--which averaged over 100 percent on an annual basis in early
1980--has since slowed considerably, and expectations are that over the
remainder of the year it will be about 2 percent per month. The fiscal and
monetary situation remains difficult. There has been a substantial increase
in Government expenditures over previous forecasts, in line with inflation.
However, there is evidence of tax revenues lagging behind inflation, and sub-
stantial arrears have built up in tax collection. SEE operations will show a
small profit this year after several years of mounting deficits. However, to
finance their investments and debt repayments, budgetary transfers to SEEs
will rise again to TL 138 billion. As a result, the budget deficit is likely
to be TL 155 billion in spite of a further accumulation of Government arrears



vis-a-vis the private sector. Pressures have therefore built up to expand
Central Bank credit, which is strictly limited under the IMF Standby Arrange-
ment. Nevertheless, the first discussions under the Standby were satisfac-
torily concluded at the end of August, and the second drawing was made avail-
able on schedule on September 29. However, IMF Board agreed to a small
increase in the ceilings on Central Bank net domestic assets and credit to the
public sector to accommodate crop purchases by the Soil Products Office
(particularly of wheat) without impinging on the availability of financing for
the private sector, especially for exports.
21.      The balance of payments position remains quite tight.  Over the first
eight months of 1980, the value of merchandise exports was only 6 percent
higher than in the corresponding period of 1979. However, taking into account
the seasonal rise in agricultural exports, the end of various labor disputes
in industry, and the rising trend in production, and provided markets recently
established in the Middle East are not long disrupted by the Iran-Iraq war,
the Government projects exports of $2.8 billion for the year as a whole, com-
pared to $2.3 billion last year. While the value of merchandise imports is
expected to be considerably higher than in 1979--$6.7 billion (including $3.2
billion for oil) as against $5.1 billion, the volume increase will be negli-
gible due to increases in import prices, especially for oil. As a result,
fairly severe import rationing continues. Workers' remittances have increased
strongly this summer and should reach $1.8 billion for the year as a whole.
Even so, it is estimated that the current account deficit will increase from
$1.7 billion in 1978 and 1979 to $3.1 billion in 1980. Capital inflows will
also be higher than last year, with gross public M&LT disbursements expected
to be about $2.2 billion, given the Government's concerted effort to disburse
the pipeline of OECD sponsored external assistance pledged in May 1979 and
April 1980. Moreover, the massive July rescheduling (para. 18) has eased the
external debt position considerably.
22.      The outlook for 1981 is slightly more promising, although the balance
of payments position is likely to remain extremely difficult. It is too early
to predict the impact the Iran-Iraq war may have, given that these two
countries normally provide nearly 55 percent of Turkey's oil imports on favor-
able terms. Assuming the impact can be mitigated, the growth rate of real GDP
is projected to be about 3 percent, with value added in agriculture and
industry growing on the order of 3 and 4 percent respectively. Investment is
likely to grow only by about 1 percent, after real falls in recent years. The
Government hopes to reduce the rate of inflation substantially again. The
external position is expected to remain tight. Exports should grow by about
20 percent to $3.4 billion, and imports by about 16 percent to $7.8 billion,
in nominal terms. As in 1980, the volume increase in imports is likely to be
negligible due to increases in import prices, especially for oil, and hence
import rationing will have to continue. With only a modest rise in service
receipts and workers' remittances, the current account deficit in 1981 is
expected to be $3.6 billion, or $500 million more than in 1980. Turkey has
already begun to make preparations to meet the very large financing gap in
1981, and hopes to secure considerably higher capital inflows than in 1980,
particularly gross public M&LT disbursements which need to be around $3.5
billion. Apart from the Bank, IMF and commercial bank loans arranged or being
processed, the Government intends to seek further special aid from OECD
members in 1981.



-8-
Turkey's Medium-Term Economic Prospects
23.      The international oil situation, following the substantial end-1979
price increases, has a major impact on future prospects. Even if Turkey
allows only a marginal increase in oil imports during 1980-1985 to sustain a
gradual resumption of growth, the oil import bill is estimated to increase
from $3.2 billion in 1980 to $6.1 billion by 1985; as a percentage of merchan-
dise exports and non-factor services, this is equivalent to about 83 percent
in 1980 and is likely to remain at about 70 percent until 1985. The pressure
this will exert on Turkey's already difficult balance of payments position is
obvious. The projected current account deficit as a percent of GNP in current
dollars increased from 3 percent in 1979 to about 8 percent in 1980 and is
projected to remain at or above 5 percent until 1984. Considering the limita-
tion on available external assistance and given the need for continued sound
external debt management, Turkey can sustain the projected annual current
account deficits of the order of $3-3.5 billion annually in the short run,
given further quick-disbursing assistance in 1981; the deficits are projected
to decline to a sustainable $2.5 billion annually in the next few years.
24.      Taking into account international inflation and the substantial obli-
gations for debt amortization, despite the July 1980 debt rescheduling, this
situation necessitates a large and sharply increasing annual average gross
inflow of foreign capital, rising to $4 to 5 billion during the next five
years.   Such major inflows of foreign capital can only be sustained on the
basis of prudent external debt management. In any case, debt service obliga-
tions are likely to remain high over the coming 5 years. In 1979, total debt
service payments were 26 percent of exports of goods, non-factor services and
workers' remittances after rescheduling payments. The ratio is projected to
rise to around 45 percent in 1984, taking account of the July 1980 debt
rescheduling. This, however, should represent the culmination of the finan-
cial consequences of the present crisis and the debt burden should remain
manageable, provided the structural adjustment policies are successfully
implemented and the export drive is sustained.
25.      Given the accumulation of economic problems of the last three years,
the political difficulties, the significantly increased cost of oil imports,
and the difficulty of significantly increasing the net inflow of capital, Bank
projections suggest that GDP growth in real terms may average around 4 percent
p.a. with a real growth of exports about 9 percent p.a. during 1980-1985.
These growth rates appear attainable, assuming continuation of appropriate
economic measures (including those announced in January 1980), and taking into
account the low export base and present underutilization of capacity.
26.      The recent political changes do not change these expectations regar-
ding economic developments. The military government which assumed power on
September 12 is determined to pursue the program of structural adjustments
announced in January 1980, as well as economic policies and commitments agreed
with the Bank, IMF and members of the OECD Consortium for Turkey. Indeed, two
days after the takeover, both the Bank and the IMF were officially informed of
this decision. A civilian Cabinet, responsible to the military's new National



- 9 -
Security Council, has been named, with the principal architect of the recent
economic policy reforms, Mr. Ozal, assuming the position of Deputy Prime
Minister for economic affairs. Its program confirms the commitment to con-
tinue implementing the January 1980 program, and the intention to introduce
those portions of it which have been blocked hitherto by deadlock in
Parliament.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
27.      A large lending program for Turkey was begun following the intro-
duction of its 1970 Stabilization Program. To date, the Bank/IDA have lent
$2,735 million, through 63 projects. Agriculture accounts for 22 percent of
funds lent, industry and DFCs for 35 percent, power for 13 percent and urban
development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of December 31, 1980, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.      Since mid-1975 the implementation of private sector projects has been
satisfactory. Political uncertainty, limited coordination amongst ministries
and staffing problems resulted in uneven and delayed project implementation in
the public sector. Therefore, a system of joint project reviews between
Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. This resulted in distinct,
but modest, improvements up to end 1977. The situation was again reviewed
with the Government in March 1978, and further discussed with the then Prime
Minister in April 1978. Subsequently, Turkey established a new high-level
coordination team. This team set up procedures for monitoring and achieving
realistic implementation and disbursement targets. As of June 1980, disburse-
ments increased to 70 percent of appraisal estimates against 51 percent in
June 1975. The encouraging progress allows cautious optimism that performance
can be gradually improved further, provided it is not eroded by new factors,
including shortages of resources.
29.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting the economic policies initiated
in January 1980, especially: (a) the pursuit of an export oriented develop-
ment strategy; and (b) domestic economic policies aimed at establishing
macro-economic balance, increasing domestic savings, restraining public
investment and reorienting it to reflect the priorities implicit in the
present situation - especially completion of ongoing projects, emphasis on
quick-yielding new investments, and balance of payments impact. The Bank has
discussed with the Government how its overall lending can best contribute to
the latter's medium-term objectives, without projects being handicapped by
past policy and institutional obstacles. A series of proposed structural
adjustment loans are envisaged, at the Government's request, to support its
program of structural adjustments to be implemented in the medium-term,
through specific detailed measures and policy actions during the period that
may be covered by each such loan. Agriculture, industry and energy will be
the key sectors for project lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize live-
stock, exports, and rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the
emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, and the gradual



- 10 -
strengthening of the SEEs. Energy projects underway are in power generation
based on domestic hydro and lignite resources; future projects will emphasize
the oil/gas sub-sector, coal/lignite and mini-hydro developments. Projects
for urban development and public utilities supplement these efforts. We
propose to maintain a close macroeconomic and sector dialogue with Turkey.
The economic and sector work planned over the next several months includes
special studies of the public investment program, of industrialization and
foreign trade strategy, and of the energy sector, and completion of sector
memoranda on agriculture and industry. In addition, the progress made in
fostering structural adjustment will be monitored in the context of each
future structural adjustment loan.
30.      A supplement to the first Structural Adjustment Loan, the Bati Raman
Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration and the Petroleum Exploration
Projects were approved by the Executive Directors in November 1980. Besides
this, other projects likely to be presented this fiscal year include loans for
fruits and vegetables, industrial finance, fertilizer industry rehabilitation,
and a second structural adjustment loan. Projects being processed for later
consideration include; rural development, seed production, sewerage develop-
ment in Istanbul, paper and cement modernization and promotion of export
oriented industries.
31.      The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt
(including short-term obligations) was 8.0 percent in 1979, and is expected to
grow to 10.0 percent by 1981 and 12.5 percent by 1985. Its share of service
payments is projected to fall slightly from 8.8 percent in 1979 to 6.4 percent
in 1981, thereafter increasing to 7.6 percent by 1985.
32.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in the Turkish Industrial Develop-
ment Bank (Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi--TSKB). As of December 31, 1980,
gross IFC commitments totalled about $212 million, of which $91 million were
still held by IFC. New investment opportunities are being pursued.
PART III - EMPLOYMENT AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Growing Unemployment Problem
33.      Despite the impressive growth in GDP achieved by Turkey during
1962-77, the economy failed to generate adequate employment opportunities,
especially in the industrial sector, to absorb the increasing labor supply.
The resulting rise in unemployment has been further exacerbated in recent
years. Unemployment in urban areas, which began to increase rapidly after
1973 when external migration slowed down and has since worsened further due to
deteriorating economic conditions, has become a major social issue.
34.      While the total working age group has increased during 1962-78 at
roughly the same annual rate as total population (2.5 percent), the growth in
the total labor force (estimated at 16.1 million in 1978) at 1.6 percent per



- 11 -
annum, has been much slower. Despite this trend, the economy has created far
fewer jobs than required to absorb this growth. Total employment grew from
12.6 million in 1962 to 14.7 million in 1977 or by only one percent per
annum. The difference between the growth rates of total employment and total
labor force has been particularly large during the Second (1968-72) and Third
Plan (1973-77) periods. This disparity did not result in a rapid rise in
unemployment during the Second Plan period, mainly because of the rising
emigration of workers abroad; from a negligible amount in 1962, the number of
workers employed abroad had grown to over 800,000 prior to the mid-seventies,
or about 16 percent of total non-agricultural employment. However, since
then, emigration abroad has declined sharply, and employment abroad as a
percentage of total non-agricultural employment fell to below 13 percent in
1979. Although the relevant statistical series on employment are of limited
coverage and reliability, it is apparent that the unemployment rate has
increased substantially in the last five years as a result of reduced external
migration, worsening economic conditions and sluggish growth of productive
employment opportunities.  Non-agricultural employment rose by only 134,000 in
1978, compared with 196,000 in 1977. Total unemployment is estimated to have
exceeded 2.8 million or about 20 percent of the labor force in 1979.
Urbanization Trends and Urban Unemployment
35.      Industrialization in Turkey is geographically concentrated, with 75
percent of manufacturing enterprises located in four major urban centers.
This has contributed to increased migration into urban areas. Urban popu-
lation increased from 18 percent in 1950, to 45 percent in 1975. The seven
largest urban centers (over 250,000 population) increased their share in
national population from 35 percent to 41 percent between 1965-75. These
deep-seated urbanization trends can be expected to persist. With a projected
annual growth of 4.5 percent in urban population during the next decade, 75
percent of Turkey's population might be urban residents towards the turn of
this century. This clear trend, coupled with the slow growth of employment
opportunities outside agriculture, has resulted in increasingly visible
unemployment in urban centers. Registrations in employment exchanges,
although of limited coverage, indicate that unemployment in the 67 provinces
of Turkey increased by about 18 percent, on an average, during 1970-77. The
increase was particularly sharp in the East and Southeast regions, followed by
the Mediterranean and Black Sea regions. To promote regionally balanced
development, which could help stem the tide of urban migration, the Government
has provided incentives to industry to locate in less developed regions.
Under past DFC loans, the Bank has also tried to assist in that direction.
But the results so far have been rather modest.
Turkish Development Strategy and Employment Growth
36.      Until recently, Turkish development planning focussed primarily on
rapid growth, and import substitution and modernization through industrial
development, with employment generation expected as a fallout from rapid
growth and concommitant high rates of investment. In addition, Turkey's
import of sophisticated technology in implementing this strategy has



- 12 -
channelled a relatively large part of investment to sectors and sub-sectors
with high incremental capital/labor ratios. It took an investment of TL
267,000 (or about $23,400 in 1976 prices) to create an additional job in
industry during the First Plan; by the Third Plan period, it took TL 572,000
(or about $50,000 in 1980 prices). Consequently, although manufacturing
received 27 percent of total investment during 1968-78, its share of total
employment increased from 7.1 percent to only 11 percent.
37.      Apart from these factors, economic policy, until recently, also
tended to favor capital against labor, through overvalued exchange rates,
subsidy on imported capital equipment such as customs duty exemptions or
deferrals, relatively low interest rates and various forms of tax relief for
investors. Institutional factors reinforced this policy bias towards capital
intensity. Due to a highly unionized labor force, significant fringe payments
and substantial social security contributions add to direct wage costs in the
organized sector, besides loss of production from strikes.
38.      Although capital intensity in the private sector increased relatively
faster than in the public sector, on average, it is still only two-thirds of
that in State Economid Enterprises (SEEs). The lower capital intensity of the
private sector is in part due to its greater involvement in light and
non-process industries, and in part to the predominance of small and medium
scale industrial enterprises which have a relatively lower capital intensity
compared to large scale enterprises in the public sector. Detailed and
comparable statistics on the distribution of capital intensity by size of
establishment within individual industrial sub-sectors is lacking. Neverthe-
less, a comparison of the investment cost per job for 542 projects granted
Certificates of Encouragement 1/ between January 1979 and June 1980,
two-thirds of which were new projects, shows that the average investment cost
per job for projects below TL 40 million is roughly one-half that of projects
between TL 80 million and TL 160 million. Furthermore, the average investment
cost per job for the small and medium scale group, i.e. below TL 160 million
investment, is TL 1.06 million ($15,100) which is less than one-third the
average investment cost per job (TL 3.28 million or $46,800, in January 1980
prices) of the larger projects. This attests to the significantly greater
labor intensity of the SMI group.
39.      Recently, the Government has increasingly become concerned with the
rising unemployment. The recent liberalization of the interest rate regime,
emphasis on exports and the adoption of a more flexible exchange rate policy
should help remove the bias towards capital intensity in agriculture and
industry and help employment creation. Furthermore, during the identification
and preparation of the proposed project, the Bank prepared a sub-sector report
1/ Certificates of Encouragement are given to projects in less developed
regions, in specified priority sectors, or with an export undertaking, and
entitle investors to investment incentives such as interest rebates,
exemption from transactions tax on interest, and exemption or deferral of
customs duties.



- 13 -
entitled "Turkey - Prospects for Small-Medium Scale Industry Development and
Employment Generation" (Report No. 2913-TU). The report makes a number of
specific recommendations to foster the efficient development of labor
intensive SMI. The Government has already implemented a key recommendation,
to provide eligible SMI with the same incentives as are available to large
firms under the Certificate of Encouragement and has also agreed to assume the
foreign exchange risk for smaller borrowers under the proposed project. In
order to encourage the Government to adopt an overall developmental policy
towards SMI, we will pursue a dialogue with the Government on the other key
recommendations.
Prospects for Employment Generation
40.      The future level of unemployment depends on the growth rates of labor
supply and employment opportunities. Labor supply is projected to increase by
330,000 per year over the next five years. It is unlikely that employment
growth in the medium-term will be able to keep pace. In agriculture, if past
trends in mechanization and other deep-seated factors persist, there may not
be a significant increase in sectoral employment. Similarly, employment
growth in the services sector has declined in recent years, although this
sector is expected to create some 175,000 new jobs annually over the next five
years. Besides, employment in that sector includes informal urban sector
employment, much of it of a marginal nature. With the industrial sector
projected to absorb some 85,000 workers per year, it is likely that the number
of job seekers will increase by about 70,000 annually over and above the
existing stock of unemployed.
41.      The industrial sector will, therefore, have to assume a greater
responsibility for creating productive employment than hitherto considered
necessary. Given the limited availability of investment funds, one of the
most effective means of accomplishing this objective is a concerted effort to
foster relatively more labor-intensive, and efficient industries. Small and
medium scale labor and skill intensive enterprises have considerable growth
potential in a wide range of activites (para. 43). The expansion of this
segment of industry, therefore, offers a significant potential for creating
permanent jobs in urban areas with relatively low investment . This provides
the rationale for the proposed project.
Structure of Industry and Financial Setting
42.      Small-scale enterprises (SSI), i.e., establishments with less than 50
workers and medium-scale enterprises (MSI), i.e., establishments employing
50-200 workers, are predominant in Turkish manufacturing. Of about 175,000
establishments in the private sector in 1970, only 487 (or 0.3 percent)
employed 200 or more workers and 4,322 (or 2.5 percent) between 10 and 199.
Of the remaining 170,000 establishments employing less than 10 workers,
comprising the so called unorganized sector, 162,000 employed 4 or less
workers. While employment in large manufacturing enterprises grew at an
annual average rate of 5.6 percent during 1970-77, it grew at 8 percent in the
small and medium scale enterprises (SMI). As a result, the SMI group
increased its share of total employment from 31 percent to 35 percent.



- 14 -
Including the large unorganized sector, it currently accounts for 55 percent
of total employment in manufacturing. In the SMI segment, employment growth
has been particularly high in basic metals, metal products and leather goods.
43.      Future growth of SMI depends on increasing adoption of modern effi-
cient production processes, specialized production, improved product designs
and quality, modern management, and closer linkages with larger manufacturing
firms either as sub-contractors or ancillaries for the provision of parts,
components and sub-assemblies or with large scale trading establishments
serving either the national or export markets. These goals can be achieved
primarily through well-conceived and properly tailored financial and technical
assistance programs, including skill upgrading and accelerated training; and
through structural changes (e.g. cooperative arrangements and consolidation of
smaller enterprises), export orientation, and adaptation of new processes.
Sub-sectors with a high growth potential in SMI comprise foundry, engineering
(fabricated metal products, electrical and non-electrical machinery, transport
equipment, and professional and scientific equipment), food processing,
ready-made garments, footwear and leather products, wood-based and furniture,
plastics, and construction materials.
44.      Roughly 50 percent of private fixed investment in manufacturing is
financed by intermediaries, another 40 percent out of internally generated
funds and the balance, through bond issues and direct foreign financing.
Among the intermediaries, commercial banks account for an estimated 35 percent
of total fixed investment, mostly through short-term loans which are periodi-
cally rolled over. Since 1972, commercial banks have increased medium-term
lending to the private sector in response to Central Bank directives and
incentives. Amongst development banks, Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB)
provided 6.5 percent of total private fixed investments mostly in foreign
exchange, and Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi (SYKB) provided about 1.5 percent
mostly in local currency. The other important sources of long-term industrial
finance are the new State Industry and Labor Investment Bank (DESIYAB)
designed to mobilize the savings of migrant workers for investment parti-
cularly in less developed regions, and the public sector Halk Bank which
finances small industry and artisans.
45.      While well established large enterprises have access to investment
finance from institutional sources, SMIs generally lack such access. However,
the true dimensions of the extent and severity of this situation are hard to
ascertain, since many small scale enterprises (SSIs) are reluctant to approach
the banking institutions. Both SYKB and TSKB have so far met only a small
part of the total long-term financial requirements of the SMI segment. The
proposed project will partially fill this financing gap, by encouraging SYKB
to increase its lending to the SMI segment of industry.
46.      With the deregulation of the interest rate regime in July 1980,
commercial banks now collectively determine base interest rates on lira
deposits and loans periodically. The current effective interest rate after
taking into account various taxes and charges, varies from 30 to 48 percent on
medium-term TL loans and about 52 percent on long-term TL loans. With
projected declining rates of inflation (estimated at 85 percent in 1981, 60



- 15 -
percent in 1982, 40 percent in 1983 and 20 percent thereafter), these interest
rates are expected to be positive in real terms over the life of the loan.
The effective rate on foreign currency loans, after taking into account the
intermediary's cost of foreign funds, its spread, taxes and charges, but
excluding rebates ranging from 3.2 to 5.1 percent, varies between 16 percent
and 20 percent with the borrower assuming the full foreign exchange risk.
This is satisfactory in relation to the prevailing interest rates in inter-
national capital markets for similar loans.
The Intermediary - SYKB
47.      SYKB, established in 1963 by five major commercial banks, is playing
an increasingly important role in financing Turkey's private industrial
sector. Its paid-in share capital is TL 400 million, of which Is Bankasi,
Turkey's largest commercial bank, holds 60 percent. The balance is held
equally by the other four founding banks. SYKB has an excellent management
team. The staff of 44 is competent and the turnover is low. SYKB has
prepared a phased plan to increase its professional staff in line with its
projected needs. SYKB has agreed that, beginning from July 1, 1981, it will
review its staffing plan annually with the Bank, make such modifications as
necessary, and thereafter implement the agreed plan (Project Agreement,
Section 2.01(b)). SYKB's Board has adopted a comprehensive policy statement
in January 1979, which ensures sound lending and financial operations. The
Bank made its first loan to SYKB in connection with the Private Sector
Textiles Project (Ln. 1755-TU) in September 1979.
48.      Though SYKB directly finances only around 1.5 percent of total
private fixed investment, it plays a much greater role in collaboration with
commercial banks and other financial institutions. Its loan approvals more
than tripled between 1976 and mid-1980, to reach TL 1.6 billion, mainly in
local currency. With the availability of new foreign currency resources, SYKB
is also becoming an important source of foreign currency loans. More than
half of its loan approvals were between TL 10 million and TL 75 million in
size. Its development orientation is reflected in its increased lending to
projects located in less developed regions, which rose from 27 percent in 1976
to 40 percent in 1979. It is estimated that about 15,000 jobs would be
created by projects which received loans from SYKB for fixed capital invest-
ments during the 1977-79 period, with an average cost per job of $41,000 in
1978 and $21,000 in 1979. SYKB's own contribution to these projects was 7.2
percent in 1978 and 20.2 percent in 1979. The main beneficiaries of SYKB's
loans so far have been textiles (21.2 percent), metal products (16 percent),
iron, steel and other products, electrical machinery and appliances.
49.      SYKB projects that its foreign currency loan commitments will
increase from $19 million in 1981 to $38 million in 1984. This includes
prospective approvals for sub-loans under the proposed project. However, its
local currency loan commitments are expected to grow from about TL 960 million
in 1981 to about TL 1.3 billion in 1984, which represents a decline in real
terms, due to resource constraints. Despite the current sluggishness in
private industrial investment, in view of its large project pipeline, ($33
million in foreign currency and TL 1.1 billion in local currency as of June
1980) SYKB should be able to meet these relatively modest targets.



- 16 -
50.      SYKB's uncommitted foreign currency resources as of December 31,
1979, were US$22.2 million. With new commitments obtained in 1980 of $14.5
million from the European Investment Bank and the proposed Bank loan, SYKB
still has a resource gap of about $47 million in foreign currency, mainly in
1983 and 1984, to meet its projected lending operations. SYKB plans to
mobilize additional funds from existing and new foreign sources; but the
outcome of this effort does not affect its ability to undertake the proposed
project. Its progress in mobilizing foreign resources will be monitored
during project supervision. SYKB plans to meet its projected TL needs for
1980-84 through internal generation, loans and equity investments from its
shareholding banks, and from the Central Bank's rediscount facility.
51.      SYKB has maintained adequate net profits between 1976-79 and they are
projected to increase in future, rising from TL 105 million in 1979 to TL 178
million in 1982, and TL 274 million in 1984 in current terms. SYKB's
liquidity position and debt service coverage are expected to remain
satisfactory. SYKB's loan portfolio is sound and diversified. Only 3.6
percent of the total loan portfolio on June 30, 1980, was affected by arrears
of more than three months. Moreover, to meet bad and doubtful loans SYKB will
retain at least 5 percent of its net annual income up to a maximum of 2
percent of its loan and equity portfolio (Project Agreement, Section 3.10).
While this is satisfactory for the present, in view of its increasing exposure
in the SSI sector, SYKB has agreed to review periodically its provision policy
and make appropriate modifications.
52.      SYKB increased its paid-in capital to TL 400 million in 1979, and
subsequently converted an additional TL 187 million of shareholding banks'
loans into quasi-equity, to maintain the debt-equity limit of 7;1 stipulated
under the Textile Project. SYKB's financial projections indicate that it will
exceed the agreed debt-equity ratio of 7:1 by end 1981. Consequently, it has
requested the Bank to relax the present limit. In view of its efficient
management, prudent financial policies, sound loan portfolio, low arrears,
adequate liquidity, and satisfactory debt service coverage, it was agreed to
increase the debt-equity limit to 9:1 (Project Agreement, Section 3.05).
However, in view of its implications for attracting and remunerating equity,
understandings were reached that SYKB will undertake a study of the factors
and policies affecting its resource mobilization, spread, profitability, and
financial position. The study will come up with recommendations to ensure an
adequate return to shareholders and a reasonable financial structure for SYKB.
The Bank's Role in Industrial Finance
53.      The Bank's operations in the industrial sector have supported private
industry through TSKB, and recently also through SYKB, and public sector
enterprises both through direct assistance and through the Devlet Yatirim
Bankasi (DYB), the State Investment Bank. Besides promoting efficient
investment in the private and public sectors and improvement of SEEs, the Bank
in recent years has sought to reach broader economic goals of regional
development, export-promotion and employment generation. In line with this
approach, TSKB increased its lending to projects in less-developed regions as
well as those which are export-oriented, and TSKB and SYKB have assisted
private sector export-oriented textile projects. The Bank's operations in the



- 17 -
industrial sector have been reviewed by the Operations Evaluation Department
in its report entitled "Sector Operations Review: Industries and DFCs
Programs in Turkey" (Report No. 3077 dated July 18, 1980). The issues raised
in this report are being addressed in the proposed project and in the Bank's
future lending program for Turkey.
54.      The January 1980 economic program favors an enlarged role for the
private sector in developing manufacturing industry. The private sector is
expected to take the lead in increasing exports and creating jobs. The Bank
supports these initiatives. To emphasize the orientation towards exports, the
prospective lending program includes loans to private sector DFCs, to further
strengthen the export capability of private enterprises. This should have a
favorable impact on employment growth, since most export growth is likely to
occur in sub-sectors with low capital-labor ratios. However, the proposed
project is the first Bank project that focuses exclusively on alleviating
unemployment in selected urban areas, by fostering labor-intensive enter-
prises. This is expected to be followed by future projects with similar
objectives, possibly including other intermediaries. Future assistance to the
public sector is likely to be concentrated on rehabilitation, modernization
and expansion of public enterprises in priority sectors.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
55.      In response to the Government's growing concern to restrain
increasing unemployment, the proposed project was identified by a Bank mission
in December 1978. It was appraised in June/July 1980. Negotiations were held
in Washington in January 1981, with a Turkish delegation headed by the Chief
Economic Counselor of the Embassy and including representatives of the Govern-
ment and SYKB.
Project Objectives and Description
56.      The Project's major objective is to foster employment in urban
centers, through the development of labor-intensive industrial enterprises,
mostly small and medium-scale (SMI). To make a tangible impact on urban
centers with high unemployment levels, private labor-intensive industrial
investment will be supported primarily in the three metropolitan cities of
Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir and twenty other regional urban centers, which
account for 75 percent of total urban unemployment. This support to SMI
should also contribute to the efficient and balanced development of the
industrial sector. To ensure reaching the project's major objective, it also
includes the provision of financial and technical assistance to eligible
enterprises through SYKB. The details are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary and amplified in the report entitled "Labor Intensive Industry
Project" dated February 6, 1981, distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.



- 18 -
Eligibility Criterion
57.      To maximize employment generation, only sub-projects with an invest-
ment cost per job created of not more than US$15,000 in December 1980 prices,
excluding land and buildings, will be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the proposed Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(d)). The
proposed limit is based on a review of the capital intensity of investment
projects granted Certificates of Encouragement by the Government during the
past 18 months, as well as sub-projects financed during recent years by TSKB,
SYKB and the Halk Bank. To induce SYKB to lend to SSI, as well as to achieve
a better regional distribution of employment generated by the project, a third
of the Bank loan has been earmarked specifically for SSI sub-projects (Project
Agreement Section 2.05). For this purpose, SSI is defined as those
enterprises with fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, after completion
of the Investment Project not exceeding $350,000 in 1980 prices in the case of
new enterprises, and not exceeding $500,000, in the case of expansion
sub-projects (Loan Agreement, Section 1.02(k)). While no limit has been
proposed on the size of sub-projects for the remaining two-thirds of the loan,
in view of the low stipulated investment cost per job criterion, it is
expected that this part of the loan will support medium scale enterprises with
fixed assets not exceeding US$2.0 million equivalent. Overall, it is
anticipated that the average cost per job for the aggregate of sub-projects
financed through the proposed loan will be about $12,000 in 1980 prices,
excluding land and buildings. This represents a significant reduction over
the currently estimated average cost per job in the manufacturing sector of
$50,000 in 1980 prices (paras. 36 and 38), including that under the SMI
component of the TSKB loan (Loan No. 1748-TU) provided in 1979.
Technical Assistance for SMI
58.      To help resolve complex technical, management and marketing problems
encountered by potential sub-borrowers, SYKB has agreed to establish a Tech-
nical Assistance Fund to finance the costs of technical assistance for its
sub-borrowers in general, and especially for labor-intensive SMI enterprises
financed under the Project. The Fund will provide grant assistance of 80
percent of technical assistance costs, but not exceeding 2 percent of the
Sub-loan amount. It will be financed out of SYKB's gross spread, by an annual
charge of one-half percent on the outstanding Sub-loan amounts. The Fund is
expected to receive $200,000 per annum, when the loan is fully disbursed.
However, to set the scheme in motion, SYKB will make an initial contribution
to the Fund of $25,000 by July 1, 1981, and $25,000 by January 1, 1982 on an
interest free basis, to be recovered as income accrues to the Fund. The Fund
will finance the following activities: (i) Turkish consultant services to
sub-borrowers in technical, management and marketing matters relating to
project preparation, implementation and operation; (ii) training staff of
enterprises financed in specific areas relating to their operations;
(iii) training SYKB's staff; and (iv) financing special sttdies related to
SYKB's objectives and operations through Turkish consultants. At least
two-thirds of the amount in the Fund will be utilized for technical assistance
to SYKB's sub-borrowers (Project Agreement, Section 2.12(c)). Sub-borrowers
will be responsible for selecting consultants. However, to assist



- 19 -
sub-borrowers to identify and obtain needed assistance, SYKB will prepare and
periodically update a roster of qualified consultants, classified by
specialization. It will assign a sufficient number of qualified and
experienced staff to supervise its technical assistance activities (Project
Agreement, Section 2.13). The technical assistance provided through the Fund
will complement the technical assistance to be provided by the Government
through its own institutional framework. To monitor the effectiveness of the
technical assistance program, SYKB will evaluate the operations of each
beneficiary enterprise six months after the implementation of such assistance
(para. 62) (Project Agreement, Section 2.15).
Cooperation with Commercial Banks
59.      SYKB does not have a branch network.  This has not been necessary in
the past, as large clients approached SYKB on their own. However, to reach
potential SMI sub-borrowers, particularly SSI sub-borrowers, in smaller urban
centers, it will utilize the services of the branches of certain commercial
banks. These commercial banks will primarily act as agents of SYKB, and
identify, screen and channel potential borrowers to SYKB, besides assisting in
loan administration. However, SYKB will appraise, approve and supervise all
sub-projects and take the credit risk. The working arrangements with the
commercial banks, defining the scope of their assistance to SYKB, and the fees
to be paid to them (a one time commission of 1.5 percent of the sub-loan),
have been formalized in a protocol satisfactory to the Bank. The conclusion
of such a protocol either with Is Bank, the largest commercial bank in Turkey,
or with any two of the other commercial banks, is a condition of loan effec-
tiveness (Project Agreement, Section 2.14 and Loan Agreement, Section
5.01(b)). In addition, SYKB has also agreed to give priority to
labor-intensive sub-projects in twenty-three urban centers by providing appro-
priate technical assistance to potential sub-borrowers and equity capital if
needed (Project Agreement, Section 2.06 and Schedule).
Relending Terms
60.      The proposed loan will be made to the Government.  The Government
will onlend an estimated $20 million in foreign exchange to SYKB to finance
sub-loans other than to small scale enterprises (SSI), for imported equipment
at 9.6 percent per annum. SYKB will onlend with a spread of 5.5 percent per
annum plus taxes and charges with the foreign exchange risk assumed by the
sub-borrowers. The remaining estimated $20 million will be relent in Turkish
Liras, to finance all SSI sub-loans for both imported and locally produced
equipment and those portions of other sub-loans to be used for financing
domestically manufactured equipment. For this part of the Bank loan, the
interest rate for sub-borrowers will be the prevailing interest rate in the
domestic market for similar loans (para. 46). The rate charged to SYKB will
be the sub-borrowers' rate, less taxes, charges and a gross spread of 5.5
percent per annum, with the Government taking the foreign exchange risk. The
maturity of the Government's loan to SYKB will be based on the aggregate
composite amortization schedule of SYKB's individual sub-loans. The execution
of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and SYKB is
a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01 (a)).



- 20 -
Other Loan Features
61.       Spread:  SYKB will receive a gross spread of 5.5 percent on its
sub-loans, inclusive of fees and commissions. Since SYKB will contribute half
a percent per annum from its spread and commission to the Technical Assistance
Fund, and will also pay a one-time fee of 1.5 percent to commercial banks, its
net spread will be slightly below 5 percent. This is considered reasonable,
considering the administrative and other costs of lending to SMI.
62.       Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation;  SYKB supervises its
sub-projects through regular visits but does not prepare standardized super-
vision reports; however special problems are recorded. Also, borrowers are
not required to submit periodic operational reports to SYKB. To strengthen
its supervision system, SYKB has agreed to develop a more formal systematic
project supervision program. This program will include a comprehensive
evaluation of the operations of each enterprise receiving a technical
assistance grant (para. 58). It will submit details of such a supervision
program by July 1, 1981 for Bank approval and implement the same promptly
thereafter (Project Agreement, Section 2.15(a)). Further, to thoroughly
evaluate the cooperative arrangement with the commercial banks and the tech-
nical assitance program being tried out for the first time, and to obtain
insights for improving the design of future Bank projects in this area, SYKB
will carry out a comprehensive study not later than June 30, 1983, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, on the following aspects; (i) the
functioning of the cooperative arrangement with the commercial banks for
promoting and financing SMI projects; (ii) the impact of the technical
assistance program on the efficiency of beneficiary enterprises and the
appropriateness of the overall design of this program; and (iii) any other
major aspect affecting project execution (Project Agreement, Section 2.15(b)).
63.       Free Limit:  The free limit for sub-loans will be $750,000, the same
as that agreed with SYKB under the Textile Project (Loan Agreement,
Section 2.02(b)). However, to ensure sound project appraisal, SYKB will
submit for the Bank's approval the first five SSI sub-loans and the first five
loans to other borrowers, irrespective of the free limit (Project Agreement
Section 2.02(c)). To monitor sub-projects below the free limit, SYKB will
also furnish for the Bank's ex-post review 10 percent of its appraisal reports
for SSI sub-projects and 25 percent of other sub-projects below the free
limit, selected by the Bank from the list of SYKB's sub-loan approvals
(Project Agreement, Section 2.02(e)).
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
64.       SYKB will compute the economic rate of return in accordance with a
methodology satisfactory to the Bank for all sub-projects it finances, whose
total aggregate cost exceeds $750,000 equivalent, and ensure that it will
normally be 15 percent or more (Project Agreement, Sections 2.02(b) and
2.10). The final date for sub-project submission by SYKB to the Bank will be
December 31, 1983 (Project Agreement, Section 2.02(f)).



- 21 -
Disbursement and Procurement
65.      The proposed loan would be disbursed at 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for imported machinery and equipment and at 40 percent of local
expenditures for domestically produced equipment, representing the imputed
foreign exchange content of such locally produced machinery. The latter
percentage has been determined on the basis of a review of a representative
sample of domestically produced machinery and equipment to be financed by SYKB
in typical sub-projects. Sub-borrowers will be required to obtain at least
three bids from suppliers in different countries for imported equipment, and
to undertake adequate domestic shopping for purchase of locally manufactured
equipment, in accordance with SYKB's procurement procedures, which are
considered satisfactory. The loan is expected to be fully committed by June
30, 1984 and fully disbursed by December 31, 1985.
Project Benefits and Risks
66.      The project is expected to support the creation of about 5,000
industrial jobs in 23 urban centers with high unemployment levels, at an
average cost per job of about $12,000, i.e. one-fourth of that currently
prevailing in that sector. Further, by fostering the growth of labor inten-
sive enterprises in sub-sectors where Turkey has considerable export poten-
tial, the project would assist the Government's efforts to promote exports and
to restructure the industrial sector. The technical assistance component
would help strengthen the development of domestic consulting firms and contri-
bute towards the improvement of Turkish industrial efficiency. While the
project's contribution in actually relieving the growing urban unemployment
problem in the country is modest, the project is a pilot operation that
focuses exclusively on alleviating this problem and is expected to provide a
possible model for future replication. In addition, it will provide a focus
for the Bank's dialogue with the Government on an overall strategy and policy
framework for fostering the development of labor intensive industry. The SMI
sector report prepared in the context of project preparation provides the
general background for this dialogue. As the project will be evaluated after
about two years (para. 62), it will provide valuable insights for improving
the design of future Bank projects with similar objectives in Turkey.
67.      In the short term, the economic problems which Turkey faces, could
affect the demand for funds from industrial enterprises and delay disburse-
ments. Without a branch network, and as SYKB is only beginning to lend to
SSI, its success in lending to SSI, particularly in the secondary urban
centers, depends on the smooth functioning of the proposed collaboration with
commercial banks. In addition, the proposed technical assistance scheme to
help SMI is new and its efficacy remains to be established in practice.
However, since SYKB, an established institution with a good record, is
committed to the project's objectives and has agreed to take special
initiatives in these areas, these risks are acceptable.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between SYKB and the Bank, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.      Special conditions of loan effectiveness are:  (i) the execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and SYKB (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.01(a)) and (ii) the execution of a protocol satisfactory
to the Bank between SYKB and the commercial banks for assisting SYKB in
identifying potential SSI and SMI sub-borrowers (Loan Agreement, Section
5.01(b)). Other features of special interest are reflected in paragraphs 57
to 64 of this Report and listed in Section III of Annex III.
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
71.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 11, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-23 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
Page I
TABLE 3A
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE4AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE 
TOTAL            780.6                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE ISCOHE            INDUSTRIALffED
AGRICULTURAL     553.8               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIATE /b               EUROPE                 COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  290.0       520.0    1200.0                  2381.1                    8104.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      245.0       479.0     798.0                  1641.4                    7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      27.5        35.3      43.1
UkRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.7        38.4       45.6                   53.9                      76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       65.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (hILLIONS)                        100.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        35.0        45.0      55.0                    77.2                     142.8
PER SQ. AO. AGRICULTURAL LAND      51.0        64.0      78.0                   129.5                     523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTMRE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.3        41.7      39.1                    30.6                      23.5
15-64 YRS;.                         55.2        54.0      56.4                    61.1                      65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.5         4.3       4.5                     8.2                      11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8         2.5        2.5                    1.6                       0.7
URBAN                               5.1/c       5.1        4.8                    3.3                       1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.0        38.0       32.0                   22.8                      13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      17.0        12.0       10.0                    8.9                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9         2.6        2.1                    1.5                       0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        65.6      66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   5.3          8.2      38.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0       100.0     110.0                   113.1                     110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   110.0       110.0     115.0                   125.3                     131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           81.0        80.0      82.0                    91.0                      98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        24.0        26.0      24.0                    39.6                      62.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      24.0        16.0       10.0                    4.3                       0.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0         57.0       61.0                   67.8                      73.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           187.0/c     153.0/d   118.0                    55.9                      13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        52.0       75.0
URBAN                                ..        51.0       70.0
RURAL                                ..        53.0       80.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..       19.5.
RURAL                                ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           3000.01    2250.0    1772.0                   1030.1                     624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      1880.0    1403.0                   929.4                     218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             590.0/e     490.0      506.0                  289.7                     121.2
URBAN                             190.0      200.0
RURAL                                ..      5890.0
ADhISSIONS PEk HOSPITAL BED            ..        20.0       20.0                   17.0                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.7         5.9
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE N1UMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.2
URBAN                               2.0         1.9
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              29.0        40.0       57.0
URBAR                                ..           ..
RURAL                               2.0         18.0



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                               Page 2 of 6
Pane 2
TABLE 3A
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURXEY                            REFERNCE GROUPs (WEIGHETD AV ZAOs
- TNST RECENT ESTIMATE2 A
MOST RUCENT           MIDDLE INCOKE           INDUSTRIALIZED
1960 fb    1970 fb ESTIMUAT  /b            EUROPE                 COUmNIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 75.0       109.0      98.0                  105.9                    100.1
MALE                 90.0       124.0    106.0                   109.3                    102.2
FEMALE               58.0        94.0      90.0                  103.0                    102.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 14.0        28.0      43.0                   64.0                     87.1
MALE                 20.0        39.0      59.0                   71.1                     84.4
FEIALE                8.0        16.0      27.0                   56.9                     84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY) 18.0         14.0      15.0                   28.8                     19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIXARY                          46.0         38.0      34.0                   29.4                     21.3
SECONDARY                         19.0        28.0      27.0                   26.1                     16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       38.0        55.5/f   60.0                      ..                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         4.0      11.5                   84.6                    339.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        49.0        89.0     103.0                  192.2                    932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         1.8      43.0                  118.5                    354.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 51.0          *-        *-                   93.0                    327.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.1         6.7        ..                    5.7                      3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   13782.1    15829.6  18858.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.2        37.2      36.0                   30.4                     36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             78.5        67.7      60.0                   37.0                      7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.5        12.1      14.0                   29.3                     38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               50.1        44.3      42.8                   40.9                     44.6
MALE                                58.7        54.9      53.2                   55.9                     58.1
FEhALE                              41.2        33.4      32.1                   26.2                     31.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9         1.0       1.0                    1.0                      0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.Oft      32.8        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS  61.O/z      60.6/       ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEhOLDS    4.2ft       2.9h       .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS   10. 6f       9.4/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
EsT7nATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    342.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    270.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URRAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..    220.0                   385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
hot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic macna.  Coverage of countries
ong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Jb   Uuiea otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1955-60; Id 1967; le 1962; /f Six years and over; ft 1963, fL 1968.
April, 1980



- 25 -M~~~~ANEX I
-                                              ~~~~~~Page 3 of 6
OEtPIItfOlPSf  OP SOCIAL INDIICATORS
ut.:.  tihog  tht data are draw   trot sources gootr-lly judged the most *uthbottativ   . d  -tiablo, it should alto be noted tht they may tot be intr-
tatttuli  cmpral  beas,o            .helc  of ttaodarTignd deltitauio  aud t-ucpte used by differen  coutries in  -ollecting  the date.  The data at.,on-
thslet,usfultodecio rder  of                        i.giud,tdiceto  teds, etC oharsotoolon orntoi -aJ.r differecoe  between coun.trie..
Thertreo   .oup  are  .1I the  seccoygopu  the suhjeotbll  coutry sa  (2)a   otoY group with som -ha  bigerh reag  incom   thao the c-ur  group
ofth  stjcootr~   otet  o  "aptl  urlo   il topoter"goP whrr  "ldln I-om   booth Africa sod Middle  .ta"is ch.s'- b.ca... of soos
el-rluuofinicre-) .  Ic tOo oerotur g.   roup data the  --orago  to  poPelatiro weigthcd arithmetic meat  too nath inditctt  and  ht-e  onlywena
iruat htl   I the cototie  it a groop hat det f-o that itdicaro.  Sinor tho. covrag r:f otuers                   eg etc indiat.ro  depode          "I the .vI'll,"lito  of
dote              -ifi.tt -tO  o,  _toiuo too  brcootad  to relating  -veags  of oa ir~diutor to arohe.-  Thes. soags  r  oh  sfu   t cpaiog toe  -atue
of ton iodicu...o ats.tite  omou            __ ooy end rofeoscogrops
LAND hOlA (thoussod sq.k..)                                                                  tutultion  pot kortaztaul                 d octto    irtas   by numor t  p- rctgpy
ool-Totu1 turfacr trot ouptIog   o  aooa eat itland wacor.                               ctac    uat Pr        o  amd-oa  acuo  a cattoroccy ito.
Aartcultu-1 - intimate of  arrlua   rco used temporar ily or pera- tly                     P lco   0   uso  P.Erse  -Pptaiocdoded tnuber of praciticia
too crops, posture., tarkta  od kitobon gardeen or to lio f ullo; 1977 data,               mal  aot tenal  graauate nut ts potita1 nurses  sa d ..asiatant nurea.
Pnouotit oo Oocial td -totl.  rha. a rural - Pnpolation  fotol.l
MP ~Ptt CuPTIu(US$) - MGNPercoc   ecae  at c.piront mk   prima.  cal-                          ob.enouu)dvedytsirapci   tob-r of boepitol beds
c     .lco Tb   .....on .ritc method ac hand   ktokAtlas (1976-78 butts); 1960,        avilobl  in Pohito and peitoat   eteral and speota.ltod htett  an  or
1970,ad 197  deco.                                                                           hshilit.taioennar.  ge-pitsla son eatbiishmeta permnetlylstaffed
by at lomot ear pbysicia.  iEnablihf.ets providing potnoipally owetdial
ENERGY CONt09PTIlON Ptt CAPITA -.doA--  cootuPti-t of.t..roaenrgy (00.1                         taco so  eat inclodd.  Rera1 hospItals, boaTe, include tItb ad medical
and Iigco  por       Ia.  aue  tan and hdro-, nuclear and  wobenl elac-                      tencoos not peeaetcy staffed by e  hyftici    but by a medical assistant.
gotty   t, Icores  f  ol eqia tpor caPita;  96. 19t,md 1978tos.mdi,ec)whbafr  npion condioadprida
data,                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited rageof meital farilittem.  For atatisnic  purpreas ocher hopi-
POPL'LATION AND VITAL STATISTICS ~~~~~tale iJ.ud   WHO.a principal general ac.                                       pculod -.   hospitals, and   -Iea
T.t.1 P.p.l.-... Kid-   (.illi ...    A.  f J.1y;boepi tolo  .or.  or rural.  hnpitalo and mediral  od _raToior tonteo. 
loalPouatot  KdYea   alit)-A   fJl   ;1960, 1970, and 1978                           Admtiulona oa  Mtoyitol ted - Tota   uthor cf adi.iosto   to or diecharget
doto.       'i         p'     tal           1  1    b,t    ..   opltd                       from  honpitala diidod by the eumbe  ni beds.
doffeoantdo ir.otioto f'orb_  ...aretmaaffetcprbil.ity of deta                        HOUSING
etog  outre;1961. 1970, and 1978 dato.                                  i. heae e  of tonuol ...                           uo h0  ouoldld-toal  ueb,,, and rura-
Pooclotiot Prulerolons                                              A hounhold -ot-ie- I..f a grop tf indiridaewh  str             Miigqater
Porlatot  o oer201  -Curentpoplutot  pojottot ae bse  or198         ed chor main meal.  A boarder or lodger may or my  te  ho includedi
total ppulattot ty ago and sea and their   ortality ard f-ottltty rot-                   ohs house.hold for atscieticut pot1      s
trojectiocpeaetr  for-            . mtly rasro cemprite of chroc levels   --ec        dvrrsge nuberofocrn  peuom-ed rben  and rura  -heaam
toc11 eopcttc   atbithit imto   with  -outor  t pr cpita i-cm                  tar of po-onprrn.I   1   ro.an   ua   ouidtnatta
1evol. and f-1al  life enpactc  scahbiliting  at 77.1 yas            -tPrs                ollna  rnentmy   Onlmg   nldo.eae-pemotn   tatuotsd
eatore f or fertility oete a1ec hove tiree lo-r   eneJtg dtide to.                       umoocpted parts
fethility according to i.ore 10-1 and psac fatily pleating psoformasce             .. Actees no    tiecrot   (rat of dwnIllto -. total. urhe, and rurlI
teh  outry is thee senigmod oeo  thos  rita  oomhsi-onn of merosicy                   C-nvetionel dwtllg  with ele..triotty in 1iolog qoatet.T  at p-e..etags
sod f-otility tr-ds f- or  prjtcr  pu_pse. ..f total,  rbat, end rural dwelltgo  -spsctttoy.
Siotionary occulatt-   - in a  tttaypupulatit thorn is no growh sinor
the birth raco is equal cc the dastb, rato, and olo the age ntruur EDCAIO
mlta co..scaut.  OTta to ochee-d orby atta  fertility recen decin  to                  Adlunted      1 inoin  gattoa
tho roplacsmet lav..lIof omit ne   eprocfotiot rate. then ant BTeatc                     Piay athci_ tet...  mal an, d fatoy - Gross toal 1ml  ead femalo
of_omo  ropl.... iteolt esatly.  Tho a.tatonry ptpulatcn  teensa                             nrolmet of ci ogee at rhe Priar  level as prentosee tf esepsoti-
satinutod go the haste of the proJeccadchroestit- of theppaato                             primar  scol-g           pa ie_om; _armlp Imoludes thlldo... aged 6-il
it the yea r 200C, and the 0000 of d-cline of fortiltsy rte. to  olee                      peers beta-       a   fr. diffreat I.sgtha of primary edu..stian; for
lootetatotry potalacion  is rahed - Th. year  ha  stationary pepoletict                       darn some puilsco    o   or shoest th  ofica  athoo l ao. 
tier han best reac.hed.                                                                  hoodar  schoo  -  tol   atedfml     opted as ab-t  sacodery
Poculatict le..ait,                                                                             oducti.. requi-o  ec Iseet four years tf aPpov-d poimos  ttstoootitn;
Per  Qt.  Mn.     id-your ppoltiut pet square hilemter (10  b                 ftre)             povidno genera.  ottatienal, or neaoec  -rtinginsrecos   opupim
totl ata-usull      12 to 17 p-nonfOae  crnpendeace cor   saT. generall
Per so  h. a-gricoltural Iaod - Computtd us ahb-t  agrcinuallad                               anouded
only,                                                         cocatiomal enrollmen~~~~~~~1 t foercet of noodery) - Vo-titonl insthotuiata
Poyulanio  hoe Strctuos I P.rtrt) - Children (h-lu yosre), uohiog-ags 115                       icuetttol   ootil  oote   ogaawihoeaeidpt
h4 y.tarn(  and recirod (65 years andsola  p_or trgee of mid-year popt-                       dently or es do. omt.o..oodr tas-totenf
late;lh,  90  ad179Sdana,po1-tea..her rai.                                                                   -e.   mr.  sod sned er  -  tota  scdene enrolled to
Puultig   bot   ae  eoet  - to-o  - Annual groth  aroa. of teed mid-                           primary and ..e..ndary  -tls 'dttdad bynubrs of  stotht  ig the
rt.r p.p-.flcties for 195D-hi, 1960-70, at 19 C- 7t.                                          ceronspending leo.la,
ruoulat iot  ro~tho Rata (percet) - urbot - Ata-e1 growh rates of urb-n popo-                 Adult.1itnoocy ra,f( .tsir c)u-tlItrt  ado1e fabie ot cad med write)
latottce too 190--hI, 1060-7_. and 19711-76P.                                                 a     pr naeo    tgna  adultP pplatien aged 15 years and ever.
Cruir Siocr Pr  (perthocod)- hcul lire birtho per thousnd of cid-ve-
,popiict 1961.1 19t71,_end 19 78 dat. ..CONSoerTION
Crude ltchbt  (per thousad) - Annual1 deaths peo chuoo..nd of tld-yte.eseer   Cero (-s  cheumad pgelatioct) - Passenge  oars comprise  nto-
popalation; 1960, 1970, and 10 78 dot.                                                     tare seating less char  igho porsona; asoldes =ulanos, haarsae end
Gotocnrcu      Ri      - Ot-Atncago   uobto of d-ogbtoraasa   will bear it                     iltrrotoa
hoo normal  prpodoctie pariod it ehr eaperiante  prset  asseicf or-                      tdic. ieeosef=      e   heeaIrrlair  - oil types gf rtiv.r. fo,r odt
nityeas;teay Simya              -aeaa    ding in 1960, 1917, ad 1977.                    brosetogmrlghioprhuanefgpaim; eodeml-
Pamuly Pln_gohomtg    asna  ftbosnd)- Admnl tat  of .... PtOOt                                beosd  osteivtor- it, otbtiso ad tnyas  hnr..tatp                    frel   e
ofbithcotrl  ovce  ads  ospon  e  ntt-o  fatly planing pt.gm.                   ecinffatdtafor rosonyears may eat he cma-blo st... meet
fa ,l Plnioisera(coc    of meritwumo   - Porconoage of macnd                              oatrsanshdioeig
oftr    tchild-touring oge (15-44 ynare) wh. us  birth-contro  dtr..e to .               ho_voe(nrchoad pcodatien   - Tr reoivre for bro.A.oat to
all marrio  wome -  t sat  agegroup.                                                        ge..noo  poblic pot thoneant population; eoldte udlicensed TV o.omivera
FCOD AND NMITIOE                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ic ..toe ioe  an  in years when registration of TV eca nine in offeot.
IOl lAd  0Tt0                                                                                (Aewo997110nsoor fpr.pi.  -  Ciclait  or thoussod oP.olattot) - Shows tht strgelroul -
pvdcto   ct all fort tomediira..  Produoti-oaolede  see..d and feed and                     liatiso devoted primooily to rocarding gemraltawa   It is cmoidered
to go calandor. ya.r hania.  Codtiet   cvrprimary goods (t.g. sacae                        n   o'al'i   tapasa   es    u   ia       eh
insteod tI agao) which are edible aod  -otaio nutritnn    (e.g. off.ee and                Ct. ba Agdgely itfdno            act   e iner - hsde   h   ubro
teaar  eolded). -Aggregate  rdoeno   o    onr   sbsdO                                  ciohets e.Id during the pe... in.idang admisiona to driv-to cinom
outint  verge  rodcerprie   ittbt;  961-hI, 1971, end 1978B dec..
Pet dait    Juol      .I.clre   (Por.ro  o  rcur-tet) - lemputed from                       ad mobile orion 
enorgy sqooaIeu  cf net food copplion available it conetry per .. pita               LABOR FORCE
Per dey.  ha-tlablo nepplt-  ottprue domosic Pood.totto, impnrtn lean                  Tona  Lnte  Porc  (thousan.do)-cooiol  ative person., including
enpoota, end ctages ic  or.Nesupplion enclodo animl feed, seda.                          armd feroes end uneployed btc eatuding hocatites,etdn. ote.
quanities tand Jc foot pre.....ing, nod    stt  ditiuin                  eur- q.etD initce.. in cart. geeontries eon net temparabl; 1960, 1970 end
motto were ati.ated to Phi beend ocptysiclogio-  tod. tor earnlat,,-                      1978 data.
viy and houi thocntoc1 eiome talcepeosouro, body ueigtner                              Female tett)- PF-al  lahr f-or  sa p-rcetage of out1 laborfoe
s_d ... dittibtio    fppuacr  at allowing ii poocstt  forw-              t  at         hricolture  )percaac) - isbcr force in  amn, foretry  buting ant
t"ushold "lecl; 1961-61. 1971  Ir  1    deofhgaspttag oftotalbo  ter;1980. 1707  and 1978 dat.
et  supplY of  -ct per ooy.  Net supply of food to defited  at a          .R-             an... electPricity, aster an   ooeprcnae gf Prta.  labor force; 1960.
qoiratoco for all c-otrira estblishod by 010A pr-pido for etc,ttt                         1970 sd 1978 data.-                              -
allou",toec  hi gon  of total prt-ic Per day end 10 gSa   of at.imn    t                 ariltia    aelorec   ctnl. malt, and femal  P- aticipattn gor
pulse ptoto, of which 10 grat  hbuld be a-i-aIpcet.Th..e.tead-                               t_        R
idol  Podtuur;  96-h,  97  ad  97   Pt1 9hd, l97C, aet 1911 dana.  These are Ill's pacticipotion rnten tefl-cti
111~~~~~ -d 1977                            matersfrm   angtleuret
otrd fometiainac  puseeitgoas pr  sy;19h-h, 1P1  d   970dno - troeni  ooanenr.  thotc   0,Itio of          dI- peoait umfor    ad.  81 ad  ever
age group i-u  -T.r, cc childono it th. age group; ftor ect developingrot
trien dats derived from lift tablau; 1960, 1970 aod 1977 dtct. CIIcEr _IuTimioTrloN
Preteof Privte       m   (btht  c.ah and ktnd)-                 byeie    yrichect
lie t.poot-o  at Birth(vat  -,A--rg  tattoo  rf ynarn of life rmeieimt                     IPtront  othet 210 Perosa t, pearest 20 percent, and pcr--et             F A ..pr.et
at  irt; 161,190 and 1976 dac.
gf'tc "rtaity hots  re  thoosart  - Auc-ua  d.tche of cogfatt  order one ystr   POVERTY TARGET iRoo'i
of ago t,11pe tbtean  lpce  ticho                                                          Etotmatd Absolute Potr-r inooms Leo    05cocct)                   ra   n   ua
coott   aeutrIocn   fprlto)- total. arbec, end ruro1 -                                    Abngle povoty tL.--e level it that toom  leve  hotowhche unma
Numercipecle(ttu, nro,sd rural)wtcesublo eea  to safe                                 ngcriciemallyadoqute dm0t plus essential   o-f rod r-qtirnts  is eat
eater s.upply finoludes orec-d a-farste'rn tro untreated 'bu''t urrtnete. d                 afodbe
fucicdr:     tnpatlcoo    otar  tha  20  meer  from e..    Ins  may tt-                   pereenl inciMoef tho ioroty   Orbac ivo  Je derived from  the rura
Ptoto' 00000 tocdy
iccoucr tcoota t -cou (ce'e20(ccuiccr-octp ur-.h.yat acti P i,
pcu   nr  ccidorh  c plyorc  oct u......i-ao,            r rIh foccctcrheohtdtrc.   o  .       b.lt.tocic caoi  ood Prjetto  ipotet
tunerh, toureca    d ar  dog pto-ca ... hy wacrt-hrc  th.r  ory ciftuser .tboil  1990.
f_r por rt  ... dourularr.t  fatttdollotcctt -~t   -r'



- 26 -
TUkKEY - 6C7N6MIC IMVELUPHENT DATA SHEET -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Share oi
A I t   a I                    Peovlslonal   -.                 P R O J E C T E D                        Growth  .ates -Lo
1970     1973       1975      1977       1978       1979      1980       1982       1983      1985       1990       70-78      79-85     B5-90      1978
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (TL Bi11tn. 1978 Price.)
1.  Gra.. daetla prodoet                          720.3    876.1    1034.2    1234.5    1272.7   1269.2    1288.2    1386.6   1D9.0    1582.3    1971.9                 7.4        3.8       4.5      100.0
2.  Gate from t- ne  af tead.                      -6.0       3.8      .0.2      -10.1       2.0    -20.0      .15.9      -20.3      -21.7      -24.0     -41.7          -          -          -        0.0
3.  Groo  d-o_ti  t nte                           714.3    e79.9    .034.0    1224.4    1272.7   1249.2    1272.3    1366.3    1427.3    1558.3    1930.1               7.5        3.8       4.4      100.0
4.  Etport. (U * N17)                              42.7     66.3       50.8       62.0      74.0      71.2       77.0      92.1      188.4      119.2     183.5         7.1        8.9       8.9        5.8
5.  I.port. (G No52                                60.0     93.9      140.4      167.4      113.8    112.0      117.3     127.6      132.2      141.2     172.3         8.9        3.9       4.1        9.2
6.  I'ooe't.o                                     130.0    158.1      245.0     273.2      243.4    263.7      263.7      280.2      294.8     326.2      420.3         8.4        3.5       5.2       19.5
7. Conoaaption                                    590.4    723.7      846.5    1036.8    1075.9  1053.5    1064.9    1142.0    1186.1    1278.1    1540.4               7.8       3.3        3.8       84.5
8.  lomeoetcanltnga                               129.9    152.4      185.7      197.7     196.8    212.8      207.5      224.4     241.2      280.2      389.8         5.3       4.7        6.8       15.5
9.  Netiooal ooelr..ga                            143.3    191.3      214.Z     213.0      212.7    236.0      216.2      237.5     260.8      304.0      423.6         5.1       4.3        6.9       16.7
8. SU101t1 OUTIUT                                                                           Shoae of total (out (Peroes- )
1.  Agrteoltare                                    29.6     27.9       29.5      28.1       27.0       23.4      26.7       26.2       25.9      29.0       24.2
2.  Dehtry                                         27.2     26.5       26.1       26.1      27.7       30.0      27.4       27.8       28.2      25.4       31.0
3. Other                                          43.2      45.6       44.4       45.8      45.4       46.6      45.9       46.0       45.9      45.6       44.8
C. PRIC8E  (1978 . 100)
1.  Loport prIce.                                 43.7      63.8       84.0       95.6     103.0     155.6      119.8      144.0     156.6      185.5     254.7
2.  Import pIee..                                  47.7     61.8       84.2      96.0      10).0      125.6     151.1      184.8     200.0      232.4      329.8
3. T.. of teed.                                    91.6    103.2       99.7      99.6      100.0      84.1       79.3       77.9      78.4       79.8       77.2
4.  GDP defltor  S/ 0.2                                     33.7       50.2       73.4     1C0.0      160.0     320.0      922.0    1198.0    2025.0    5039.0
5.  Aooe.geeo-h.o.g  rate (51.00 . TL)             11.0     14.2       14.4       18.0      24.3       36.4
D. PUBLIC FINANCE          *                                        Percent of GDP
1. C-eteol govere.eeeeveneo                        22.6     20.9       23.1       24.2      24.2      23.8
2.  Conteal goe..oote  eop-odlt-re                 24.9     22.0       23.7       27.9      28.5       25.9
3.  PobIle aector deflell 3/                         -       2.1        6.1       9.0        3.7        6.2
1970-78                                                                              1970      1975      1977     1978
e. SELECT4D INDICATORIS                                                              F.  "AbUR FRCE
ICOR                                                3.0                               CiUoliao labo- force (milli-o)                  13.6      15.8      16.0     16.4
Impost  leo1ticoty                                 2.4  I/ leerplcpsrt a                                    .d ede.ee.ployeeee  CT)   11.0      12.3      13.1     13.5
Avecago do-oti sas-ig rate                        16.9                               Ciltac essployeroe (1.lDloe                      13.1     14.7      14.7     14.8
-largl-al doestIL  ovIn  rate                      13.6                                 of eioch (;
Iee.a-m  t/CDP                                    20.2
lopoeta/GDP                                        11.4                               Acrltoltare                                     67.1      64.5     61.9      61.3
Indoot.y                                        13.3      14.9     16.3      16.6
other                                           19.6      20.6     21.8      22.2
Tottl.. -y mt add op bee-   of rounding erpro.
/  Peejattod rots, of inft3tie are  highly apoaloitive ood mabjoot to  hange.
- dorroving r-qaBr.mt of o etral geoes.et, Btat."    otbe-i  Letepe    and  other p.Ulc .Athieitioa
6/Poe 1970-77 parted.
Oetebee 1980
S12DA



- 27 -
TURkEY - BALANCE OF PAYKENTS                                                                 ANNEX I
(Million IS Dollar)                                                                      Page 5 of 6
Actual                        Provisional                                  Proiected
1970      1973       1975       1977       1978        1979       1980       1981      1982       1983       1984       1985       1990
A.  SUMIIAY Of BoLANCE OF PAYHENTS
1.  topocce of good. and NFI                           754       1799       2152      2556       3108        3257       3800      4500       5462       6473       7680       9114      19254
2   Imports of goode aod NFS                         -1096      -2391      -5219      -6436     -5059       -5699      -7300     -8400      -9714    -10877    -12162    -13524    -23405
3.  _esooce balance                                  - 342      - 592      -3067      -3880     -1953       -2442      -3500      -3900     -4252    - 4404    - 4482    -   t41o    - 4151
4.  1-c-nnt (net) 1/                                --  47      -  59      - 124      - 570     - 680        -930      _1350     -1670      -1500    - 1619    - 1749    - 1924    - 2309
5.  frolis                                           -  33      -  35      -  36      - 116     -60           -50        -          -       - 103    -  108    -  114    -  120    -  }50
6.  Workoe' renlttannee                                273       1183       1312        982       983        1694       1800      2D00       2400       3000       3400       3800       5800
7. ht factor sIcolce lna..                             193       1089       1152        366       243         714       450        330         797      1273       1537       1756       3341
8.  T.an.fene                                           91         18         23         12        -           -          -          -
9 C Corrent a _tonl balance.-  58                                 515      -1892      -3512     -1710       -1728    -3050       -3570      -3475    - 3131    - 2945    - 2653    -  810
10.  Private foreign capital                             9Z         77        251        169       147         209        175       200        220        244        273        299        500
11.  Poblic medium 4 lang-tern (H&LT)(gnoee) 21         271        376        386       502        530        1434      2175       3540       3135       3540       3826       4233       4423
12   Anortieation of poblic MaLT 11 2/                - 146      -  72     - 117      - 214      -360         -365    -1240       -1400      -1474    - 2176    - 2692    - 2897    -3729
13.  Publin M&LT (Net)                                  125        304        269        298       150        1869       935 s     214        1661       1364       1134       1336        694
14.  Sh14c-con (net) 2/                                  66      -235        1159      1807       1097         582       839        220      - 172        s79        &94       -58
15.  Copital not incladed elIe-her-  4i               -  39         67     - 204        742        464        -206      1060       1018       2168       1827       1832      1286
16.  Chanen F  -reseces (- = inrna. e)- 186                      - 728       417        566        148          7         30         -       - 402       -181       -200      -212       -384
B.  4.LT LOAN COMMITMENTS 5/                               506        547        755       1205       1407        1896
Poblic Sector                                           487        491        649       1105      1307        1796
1.  Benk groop                                          40        135        158       144        358         306
2. Othoc -ILtilatne-l                                 1172        100        40           6        54         123
3.  G-onecrnnte:  mace teconoen                       1154        718        197       282        288         805
4.  _oorontn:  contrally planned econonie              114          3          3        150       204          35
5.  Soppliner                                           47          4         79       260        123      1527
6.  FiPnnc il in-tit-iaon                              -          32        172       263        281         3
7.  Othec                                               -          -r
Pri-atnaector                                            19         56        106       100        100         100
C. A4ERACE TERIMS O M1LT LOAN CUOtIEf1NTS 51
1.  Grant eleent 1/)                                37.4       39.2       15.6       11.4       14.2         14.7
2 I. Ince          M%                                  3.6       4.7         7.2       7.6        7.2          7.0
3.  d  accty       (year.)                            18 8      25 7       13.5-      11.6       10.0         11 9
4.  Grace          (year)                              4.6        7.1        3.8       4 2        331          3.0
.U  Dues et include 1980 debt relIef eikeh   e in-l.add under "napital -nt elnehbee inesded".  The fture. .e.    ltse.t relief 1980 9329  illin., 1981 $259 *illtan
1982 5173  illine and 1983 5142 M11ime; and poinl.pl  elisif 1980 5733 .1111.., 1981 5518  .1111.. 1982 3387  illion  nd 1983 $386 dllion.
2/  Up tn  nd inleuding 1978 these figae   -e  gomeenet estiat., Ahn  are eat Cnin.E.tt tIth Beek D01S det.
3/  Mainly -o-veetible Taekieh lre depeit .e. e. nePt-e ne-dite, e-ent r             d a il n   aeme.ee  be.nkereW  e-editn, esarb.,eet oredite,  -veedr-fts,   ede-r Sk a.she   depeLt-, and IMF.
4J  Ins  dIng creams and esLeeiloe   up tn 1979; foe  poJaeoled yan.  it Inalads. g-pfill, priLsts  MILT b-rmnege an a net beet. nd tetal debt relief ($1062 .111mim in 1980, 5777 sllian
ia 1984,   560 millIon in 19e2, nd 5528  Illie. in 1983).
5 P Pablin  nd pablioly guarteed et-e 1al debt .el,.
Oct118r 1980
gh21DA



- 28 -
TUIIY - EXTERNAL L;EBT AND CRXDITWIORTNINESS                         ANNEX I
Pgeo 6 of 6
Actual                                     Provisional
1970        1973       1975        1976        1977       1978             1979
A.  OUTSTANDING DEBT (Million US Dollars)
1.   Public Medium and Long Term (M and LT)(Disburned)  i/            1854        2669       3176        3519        4326       6100             10452
2.   Private H and LT (disbursed)  1/                                   42         115         160         253        479        557               650
3.   Shore Term  2/                                                                279        1398       3441        6600       7469             4823
4.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                 1896        3263        4734        7313       11405     14126             15925
5.   Undisbursed Public M and LT  1/                                   840        1101        1641        2393       2804       3500              3775
B. DEBT SERVICE (Million US Dollars)
1.   Interest on all Debt (net of relief)  i/                          -47        -59        -150        -300        -570       -710             -930
2.   Amortization of M and LT Debt (net of relief)                    -146         -72       -117        -119        -214       -380              -365
3.   Total Debt Service Payments                                      -193        -131       -267        -419        -784      -1090             .1295
C.  DEBT BURDEN
1.   Debt Service Ratio  4/                                           18.8         4.4         7.7       11.2        22.2       26.7             26.2
2.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt/GDP  5/                         15.0        15.7        13.1        17.9       23.9       28.3             26.5
D.  EXPOSURE
1.   Bank Group DOD/Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                   7.2         7.8        9.1         7.6         6.1        6.0              8.0
2.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                        3.2        14.9       12.2        10.8         8.3        7.7              8.8
E.  COMPOSITIDN OF TOTAL OUTSTANDING DISBURSED DEBT                                                                        1979/
(Million US Dollars)                                                                          (AMount)  (AS % of Total)
1. Medium & Long-Term Debt                                                                                        11             69 
a.     Public Medium and Long-Term                                                                            10452          65.6
(i)  Bank Group                                                                                        1080           6.8
(ii)  Other Multilateral                                                                                 639           4.0
(iii)  Governments                                                                                       4692          29.5
(iv)  Suppliers                                                                                          352           2.2
(v)  Financial Institutions                                                                            3654          22.9
(vi)  Bonds                                                                                               35           0.2
b.     Private Medium and Long-Term (Total)                                                                     650           4.1
2.  Short Term                                                                                                     4823          30.3
(i)  Convertible Turkish Lira Deposits                                                                  642           4.0
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Commercial and Oil Arrears                                                     1516           9.5
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                                                                 634           4.0
(iv)  Bankers Credits, Reimbursement Credits,Overdrafts                                                  244           1.5
(v)  Dresdner Bank                                                                                      344           2.2
(vi)  IMF                                                                                                623           3.9
(vii)  Oil Credits                                                                                        408           2.6
(viii)  Other                                                                                              412            2.6
3.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                                                              15925         100.0
1/  Bank DRS data.
2/  Based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.
3/ Based on Turkish Balance of Payments data, except for 1979.
4/ Total debt service (line B3) divided by exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
5/ At market prices.
6/ Bank DRS data, Turkish Central Bank and Treasury estimates.
Oetober 1980
EMENA CPIIA



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
ST!hTEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1980)
Loan and
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower                   Purpose                           Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-three loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed                       614.5   177.4
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey         Education                          13.5                0.7
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey         Istanbul Water Supply              37.0                9.2
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey         Ceyhan Aslantas                    44.0               18.7
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway   Railway Project                       46.7                1.6
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey         Antalya Forestry                   40.0                0.2
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                    Elbistan Power                    148.0               51.4
1024-TU   1974   DYB                        Industry                           40.0                0.6
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey         Rural Development                  75.0               41.8
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)          Agriculture Credit                  54.3              31.2
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)        Newsprint                          70.0               10.0
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Livestock III                      21.5               11.6
1194-TU   1976   TEK                        Power Transmission II              56.0               11.5
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Tourism                            26.0               22.5
1379-TU   1977   DYB                        Industry                           70.0               26.2
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                       Industry                           74.0               11.6
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Northern Forestry                  86.0               67.5
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Livestock IV                       24.0               22.3
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Erdemir Steel Stage II             95.0               85.5
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ports Rehabilitation               75.0               75.0
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Grain Storage                      85.0               85.0
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                       Industry                           60.0               56.5
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                       Private Sector Textiles            65.0               64.1
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                       Private Sector Textiles            15.0               15.0
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ankara Air Pollution Control        6.0                5.7
1818-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Structural Adjustment             200.0               29.1 /c
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Karakaya Hydropower               120.0              120.0
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Sumerbank Cotton Textiles /a    83.0                  83.0
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Livestock V                        51.0               51.0
1915-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Structural Adjustment
Supplement /a                   75.0               75.0
1916-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Petroleum Exploration /a           25.0               25.0
1917-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Oil Recovery /a                    62.0               62.0
Total                                                     2557.5   177.4   1170.5
of which has been repaid                                 228.5      6.4
Total now outstanding                                     2329.0   171.0
Amount sold                        3.6
of which has been repaid        3.6                      - 0 -   - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                         2329.0   171.0
Total undisbursed                                         1170.5       0     1170.5
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c $9 million undisbursed as of February 9, 1981



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                    Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor       Type of Business                   Loan   Equity    Total
1964     TSKB          DFC                                 -        0.92     0.92
1966     SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                         0.90      0.47     1.37
1967     TSKB II       DFC                                 -        0.34     0.34
1969     TSKB III      DFC                                 -        0.41     0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                         1.50      0.43     1.93
1970     Viking I      Pulp and Paper                     2.50      0.62     3.12
1970     ACS           Glass                             10.00      1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS         Aluminum                           7.00      1.37     8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                          0.75       -       0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                       -        0.05     0.05
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                          -        0.52     0.52
1972     TSKB IV       DFC                                 -        0.43     0.43
1973     TSKB V        DFC                               10.00       -      10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                            0.33      0.27     0.60
1974     Borusan       Steel Pipes                        3.60     0.43      4.03
1974     AKSA          Textiles                          10.00       -      10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                            1.30       -       1.30
1975     Sasa          Nylon Yarn                        15.00       -      15.00
1975     Aslan         Cement                            10.60       -      10.60
1975     DOKTAS        Steel                              7.50      1.37     8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                               25.00      1.23    26.23
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                           1.58       -       1.58
1976     TSKB          DFC                               25.00       -      25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                              12.00      2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan       Steel Pipes                         -        0.06     0.06
1978     DOKTAS        Steel                               -        0.09     0.09
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                  2.15       -       2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories       8.62      0.68     9.30
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                -        1.80     1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                              33.17      2.25    35.42
1980     TSKB          DFC                                 -        1.09     1.09
1980     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories        -        0.95     0.95
1980     MENSA         Testile and Fibers                 4.00       -       4.00
Total Gross Commitments                        192.50    19.56   212.06
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                   117.30      3.49   120.79
Total Commitments now held by IFC              75.20    16.07    91.27
Total Undisbursed                                1.28     0.23      1.51



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project; US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. Implementation is completed
for most items, although completion of some training institutions, including
the Management Training Institute, has been delayed by contract disputes.
Alternative steps to formally establish the Management Training Institute are
likely to be needed. Training of teachers for technician schools, adult
training centers and practical trade schools has made considerable progress.
Sixty-seven local advisory committees for vocational and technical education
have been established, one in each province.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to the distribution system required, to enable full utilization to be made of
the new water sources are under implementation. Tariff increases have been
implemented recently, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and
financial systems is under consideration.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also been completed.
Progress in 1980 was in general satisfactory. The pace of construction of the
power-house was lower than forecast, but is not expected to delay completion.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
The construction of the irrigation system is progressing, with the system now
ready to transport irrigation water to about 40,000 ha, one third of the
target. On-farm works are progressing steadily, with about 50 percent
completed. Tile drainage is being delayed until the main drains are located.
Staffing of the extension service is satisfactory except as regards consul-
tants; the Government is taking steps to hire the latter.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways; US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date; August 28, 1973. Closing Date; June 30, 1981.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Over 95 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement action has been completed for use of the remaining
loan funds. Despite several tariff increases since the loan was made, the
Railways have continue to fall short of the financial targets in the revised
Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is hoped that
further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging 70 to 170
percent, which became effective in January 1980, will improve the Railways'
financial situation. While the dieselization program is making satisfactory
progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such as
appropriate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
Construction is substantially completed. Most of the main ancillary
process equipment is in place, but construction is hindered by material
shortages. The project is expected to be completed by January 1982 and
production commence in mid-year, two and a half years behind the revised
schedule. Sufficient foreign currency is available to complete the project.
Local currency payments for the Akdeniz establishment are now being made.
Substantial price increases in 1980 should enable the company to meet most of
the local currency requirements.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date; June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
resulted in some improvement of project execution, until mid-1979. However,
continuing and serious shortage of local funds has affected project progress,
which has been aggravated by staff and management deficiencies. The Govern-
ment's expected timely provision of adequate local funds for this high



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
priority project from the Structural Adjustment Loan CounLerpart Funds is
likely to help resume momentum in future. The colenders and the Government
agreed in November 1980 on a detailed program of action to overcome remaining
implementation problems; this program is now being implemented.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date; March 31,
1981.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory and
disbursements are nearly complete.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date; January 22, 1976. Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
The project is in general progressing satisfactorily though because
of disruptions in construction it is probable that the irrigation works will
be completed only by end 1983. Corum dam has been completed as also the works
to divert run-off from 5 nearby watersheds. Kumbaba pumping station is ready,
and irrigation has started. Alaca dam is expected to be completed by end
1981. Damage to the Alaca diversion tunnel, because of rock slides, has been
regained and the tunnel lining is almost finished. Contracts for the irri-
gation systems of the Guldercek and Alaca areas have been awarded and work is
in progress. The project extension service is operating successfully and its
impact on agriculture is promising. The Government has replaced one of the
two vacant consultant posts. Further construction of village centers is being
delayed until agreement is reached on satisfactory plan for using and
maintaining existing centers and plans for additional centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April, 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because
of foreign exchange shortages. Improvements are expected to continue in over-
all project implementation and the rate of disbursement.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date; May 11, 1977. Closing Date; September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on and
roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable Export
project are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports in



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Turkey and two ports in Italy. The of agro-industries component is delayed,
mainly due to investors' reluctance to assume the foreign exchange risk.
Government is reviewing possible measures to overcome this problem. The
Agricultural Bank (TCZB) has introduced improved lending procedures for its
ongoing supervised credit program, and this component is being implemented
satisfactorily. After considerable delay, consultants have begun the study of
TCZB's structure and procedures. At the Borrower's request, a
cattle-fattening component of the Project, and US$7.7 million of the original
Loan amount of $63 million allocated for this purpose, were cancelled on May
5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04 million for
training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of UNDP funds
for this purpose.
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint; US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is nearing physical completion. The sawmill has begun
operations, although wood supply and marketing problems now must be resolved.
Recent price increases have helped to correct the local currency shortage
situation and the project is expected to start production in early 1981, 2
years behind the appraisal schedule. Trial production runs have already begun.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date; February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation
improved but has recently deteriorated due to resource constraints affecting
field staff travel. This has adversely affected the preparation of farm
development plans. Though project area offices have been established, they
are not fully staffed. Government has taken some measures, and reviewing
others to correct the situation. A higher than expected proportion of
sub-loans has been made to small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure; US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is underway, with progress
being made in preparation of specifications and project design work, although
the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than expected
due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are being
taken.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1982.
The loan is expected to be fully committed in the next few months.
DYB still has severe staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by
recruitment of additional junior staff. It hopes improved contract terms will
enable it to fill more senior positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing
Date; December 31, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and the loan has been fully committed. TSKB
has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of its resources to
projects in less developed regions and export-oriented industries. It has so
far been unable to raise resources in international capital markets as
expected because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the interest of
several financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit renewed
efforts.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Industrial wood production for 1979 was close to forecasts but there
were significant shortfalls in some other targets, principally as a result of
Government budget cuts. Continuing local resource constraints have adversely
affected all targets during 1980, causing delays in preparation of forest
management plans over about 22 percent of the project area and timely payment
by SEEs' for timber delivery. Foreign procurement is effectively up to date
but local state enterprises have been unable to supply much of the locally
produced equipment (principally vehicles to replace existing stocks).
Consideration is being given to procuring them internationally.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program for farm development has not yet been
initiated, mainly because of difficulties being encountered in recruiting
veterinarians and agronomists to serve in eastern Turkey and by resource
constraints adversely affecting field staff travel. Government has taken some
actions and is reviewing other measures to overcome them. The milk industry
study has been satisfactorily completed. International recruitment of
technical specialists, considerably delayed, is underway.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line are completed. Product selling prices
have been substantially increased in January 1981. Production from existing
facilities has been severely restricted from time to time because of the lack
of raw materials due to the limited availability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation: US$75 million of July 2, 1979. Effective
Date: January 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project coordinating committee is in place and functioning
effectively. Procurement is making good progress. UNDP has appointed a
project manager to implement the project related training programs. The port
sector planning studies have been delayed by lack of staff, but steps are
being taken to correct this.
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage; US$85 million of July 2, 1979. Effective Date;
January 21, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. Proposals from prequalified
consultants for engineering design and supervision of construction are under
evaluation.
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60 million
of July 12, 1979. Effective Date: October 25, 1979. Closing Date;
December 31, 1982.
After initial delays, the progress is now satisfactory with over 75
percent of the loan committed. TSKB and ITC finalized in November the
technical assistance program for training, and export development is under
implementation.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB (US$65 million) and 1755 SYKB (US$15 million) Private
Sector Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date: February 29,
1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have prepared the preliminary program for local
training. The additional consultants for technical services and for the
extension services are in place. Revised Action Plans are being prepared.
Approval of sub-projects has begun, and about 25 percent of the loan has been
committed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of
December 12, 1979. Effective Date; April 4, 1980. Closing Date;
December 31, 1983.
Consultants being selected for project studies.
Ln. No. 1818 Structural Adjustment Loan; US$200 million loan of March 26,
1980.  Effective Date:  April 1, 1980.  Closing Date:  September 30, 1981.
The loan is fully committed and disbursements were $188 million as of
January 30, 1981. Progress has been satisfactory, and the second tranche was
released on July 30, 1980 and the final one on October 23, 1980.
Ln. No. 1844 Karakaya Hydropower: US$120 million loan of May 21, 1980.
Effective Date; August 15, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Project implementation is making progress.
Ln. No. 1847 Sumerbank Textiles Modernization and Rationalization; US$83
million of May 28, 1980. Effective Date: February 27, 1981. Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective. Project implementation has begun.
Arrangements for consultants are nearly finalized and procurement procedures
have commenced.
Ln. No. 1862 Livestock V; US$51 million of June 6, 1980. Effective Date:
October 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Project implementation has begun. Consultants are being selected.
Ln. No. 1915 Structural Adjustment Loan Supplement: US$75 million of
November 24, 1980. Effective Date: February 25, 1981.
Closing Date: August 31, 1981.
The loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1916 Petroleum Exploration Project: US$25 million of November 24,
1980. Effective Date: March 24, 1981. Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Ln. No. 1917 Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project;
US$62 million of November 24, 1980. Effective Date; March 24, 1981
Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
LABOR INTENSIVE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identification:                         December 1978
(b)  Time taken by the Borrower and                  18 months (December 1978 to
SYKB to prepare Project:                      June 1980)
(c)  Agency which prepared Project:                  Government and SYKB
assisted by Bank
(d)  First presentation to Bank:                     April 1980
(e)  Appraisal                                       June/July 1980
(f)  Negotiations:                                   January 1981
(g)  Planned date of Effectiveness;                  June 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness;
(i) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic of
Turkey and SYKB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 60);
(ii)  Execution of a protocol between SYKB and Is Bank or between SYKB and
any two other commercial banks formalizing the arrangements
governing their assistance to SYKB in identifying eligible
sub-projects in urban centers (para. 59).
(b) Other Conditions;
(i) Only sub-projects with an investment cost per job of not more than
$15,000 will be eligible for financing (para. 57);
(ii) One-third of the proposed Bank loan will be allocated to financing
SSI sub-borrowers (para. 57);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii)  Government will assume the foreign exchange risk for all SSI
sub-loans and for other TL sub-loans related to financing the
imputed foreign exchange cost of domestically produced equipment
(para. 60);
(iv)  SYKB will establish a fund for financing technical assistance to its
clients and expenditures on other purposes agreed with the Bank, to
be funded by a charge of 0.5 percent from its gross spread
(para. 58);
(v)   SYKB will make special efforts to promote and finance sub-projects
in priority urban centers (para. 59);
(vi)   SYKB will submit to the Bank for its approval the first five SSI
sub-loans and first five other sub-loans, irrespective of its size.
It will thereafter submit for the Bank's ex-post review 10 percent
of its SSI sub-loans and 25 percent of its other sub-loans below the
free limit selected by the Bank from SYKB's list of approvals (para.
63);
(vii)   SYKB will compute the economic rate of return for all sub-projects
exceeding US$750,000 investment it finances and ensure that the
economic return for these sub-projects is normally at least 15
percent (para. 64);
(viii)  SYKB will undertake a comprehensive evaluation of the implementation
of the project, under terms of reference approved by the Bank, two
years after loan effectiveness which would include an evaluation of
the technical assistance program, the functioning of the cooperative
arrangement with the commercial banks and any other important matter
relating to project execution (para. 62).



IBRD i1656F
AIJUST I~I
Edirne   Kirki                                         I  bo     Sinop
,.   ,. kk're li 8                                 _   i  r  i  o    p      2 Bilecik  $o5.ha5.-.iye,2 d fi      Hop
tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ re5l                                                                              ti n ;
62~~~~~~~~~~  Mei,deres A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~reu                     S
Mormn  McBuoln                                                                                          M-rdis                   rlz   ( i  /i
T i,                                                                                                       Um  VRh( 
Md A*1Fge    ,, .;, .*  dn:*, te rana    :Se-r ',                                             RAN','X S 0[.f=t 'tAT   ANffl=AiO
<   M  e  d i t e er a n ea  n tSo                    o  r ,.  ;ryi ''d',>:= a , .,  i k  ; 
LLJ  Z ~~~~~~~~~~~~d',0L1[JS;  EfD;:  ii,AF ;. j.qeh   lr.;  ,-; .X.-. 2 Sd1VL 10  
Of ~ ~~~~~ ~~      ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j 4   ;s 10dei; 2 l 0t'r  k ;, rtehJ -;JiL r  n    L- ;     
-                                               YMain roads  hOPUEATIONi  ENTERSi
Provincial boundaries                       I~0QOoo                             i                           B0lro rAnt  a  ram-nck 5wa
~~~~~~~l  _7000t  S  u*  .. ,l.r i  i    ala 1v-2 
o        100      200      300          lie.oe,peoi.n~ f~. 200000  4' "     i,A1OAnkFro n
cLoCEeS                                        i0 5GWoo.ooJo       -,         Ur                    O                  '   r IP U.SR K E Y   STM
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Qo  00 iS 200f                                  :t;E:jjr  0                         t=;u fYl; l RAQ  N 
MILES                                                      WoOO&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OunJ~~~k  g l                     IiA
An ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,Y~''                             RT                    YI



