LOAN NUMBER 1952 TU
DOCUMEMTTs
Project Agreement
(Labor Intensive Industry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI A.O.
Dated          .    ,              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1952 TU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    rUe-L     13             , 1981, between
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI A.0.
(hereinafter called SYKB), a company established and operating
under the laws of the REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (hereinafter called the
Borrower):
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the
Borrower, for relending to SYKB, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that SYKB agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS SYKB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreemeat with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of SYKB
Section 2.01. (a) SYKB shall carry out the Project, described
in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement, and conduct its oper-
ations and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, financial and investment
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management
and staff and in accordance with its Statutes and Statement of
Policy.


﻿-2-
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, SYKB shall (i) beginning on July 1, 1981, and annually
thereafter until December 31, 1986, review with tne Bank its plan
for increasing its professional staff and make modifications to
such plan as may be necessary under the conditions then prevailing
and taking into account the Bank's comments, and (ii) promptly
upon completion of such reviews implement such plan.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, SYKB shall submit Investment
Projects to the Bank for approval or for authorization for with-
drawals to be made from the Loan Account.
(b) (i) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, SYKB shall furnish to the Bank
an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a
description of the Investment Enterprise and of the Investment
Project to be financed thereunder (including a description of the
expenditur3s for such Investment Project proposed to be financed
by SYKB and an appraisal of the Investment Project) and the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan, and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (ii) such apprai-
sals will include a calculation of the economic rate of return
which shall be calculated in accordance with a methodology
satisfactory to the Bank. With respect to any Investment Project
the economic rate of return shall be at least 15% except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree.
(c) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (b), SYKB shall submit to the Bank for its approval
in the manner set forth in said paragraph: (i) the first five
Sub-loans for Investment Projects with respect to Small Scale
Industry Enterprises (except for the calculations of the economic
rate of return); and (ii) the first five Sub-loans made to other
Investment Enterprises (irrespective of the free-limit).
(d) Each request by SYKB for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan
shall contain a summary description of the Investment Enterprise
and the Investment Project (including a description of the ex-
penditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.


﻿-3-
(e) SYKB shall furnish to the Bank for ex-post review a
sample of appraisal reports in the English language with respect
to free.-limit Sub-loans; such sample shall be selected by the Bank
from the list of approved Investment Projects submitted to the
Bank and include not less than 10% Investment Projects in case of
Sub-loans to Small Scale Industry Enterprises and not less than
25% in all other cases.
(f) Except as the Bank and SYKB shall otherwise agree, SYKB
shall submit applications for approval of Investment Projects
pursuant to the provisions of paragragh (b) of this Section and
requests for authorizations to withdraw from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section on or
before December 31, 1983.
Section 2.03. (a) The amortization schedule applicable to
each Investment Project shall provide for an appropriate period of
grace, and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, (i) shall not extend beyond twelve years from the date of
approval by the Bank of such Investment Project or of authoriza-
tion by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect of such Investment Project, and (ii) shall provide for
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(b) SYKB shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior approval,
any substantial changes proposed to be made by the SYKB in respect
of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.04. (a.) SYKB undertakes that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby SYKB
shall obtain, by written agreement or other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and
of SYKB, including, in the case of any such Sub-loan: (i) the
right to require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and io maintain adequate records; (ii) the right to
require that: (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and,
in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of


﻿-4-
the parties rendering them, and (2) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) the right of the Bank and of SYKB to examine such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) the right to require that the Invest-
ment Enterprise take out and maintain such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice and that, without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery of the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan to the place of use or installation,
and that any indemnity thereunder be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replee or repair such
goods; (v) the right to obtain all such information as the Bank or
SYKB shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing, to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Projects and (vi) the right of SYKB to suspend or terminate the
right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its agreement with SYKB.
(b) SYKB shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the interests
of the Bank and of SYKB, (ii) comply with its obligations under
this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (iii) achieve
the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SYKB
shall apply not less than one third of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it for Sub-loans to Small Scale Industry Enterprises.
Section 2.06. SYKB shall give priority to Investment Projects
in the urban areas of Turkey specified in the Schedule to this
Agreement and provide technical assistance and equity for such
Investment Projects as needed.
Section 2.07. SYKB shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the Sub-
loans.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. SYKB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, SYKB shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or amending, abrogating or
waiving any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. Except as the Bank and SYKB shall otherwise
agree, SYKB: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations
and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.10. Except as the Bank and SYKB shall otherwise
agree, SYKB shall calculate the economic rate of return in
accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank for
its loans (including free-limit Sub-loans) and investments
whose investment cost shall exceed $750,000 equivalent in prices
as of December 31, 1980. The economic rate of return shall nor-
mally be at least 15%.
Section 2.11. Except as the Borrower, the Bank and SYKB
shall otherwise agree, SYKB shall: (i) charge a commitment fee
and interest on its foreign-currency Sub-loans withdrawn and
outstanding at the rate specified in Section 2.05 and 2.06,
respectively, of the Loan Agreement, plus 5.5% per annum and the
taxes and charges at the applicable rates; and (ii) periodically
establish and then apply an interest rate on its TL Sub-loans on
the basis of the interest rates prevailing at the time in Turkey
for similar loans and inform the Bank of the established interest
rate prior to applying such rate.
Section 2.12. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SYKB shall:
(a) establish a fund to finance: (i) technical assistance
and other services to assist Investment Enterprises in preparing
and carrying out Investment Projects; (ii) on-the-job and other
training of the staff of Investment Enterprises; (iii) training of
staff of SYKB related to operations under its Statement of Policy;
and (iv) technical assistance for SYKB to carry out industrial
sector studies;


﻿-6-
(b) by July 1, 1981, pay an amount of not less than $25,000
equivalent and by January 1, 1982 a further amount of not less
than $25,000 equivalent into the fund referred to in paragraph
(a) hereof and retain 1/2 of 1% of all interest paid on Sub-loans
for said fund; and
(c) apply for purposes set forth in paragraph (a) (i) and
(ii) hereof: (i) not less than two thirds of the fund; and (ii)
80% of its financing out of the fund as a grant; provided,
however, that the grant shall not exceed 2% of any Sub-loan.
Section 2.13. SYKB shall: (i) prepare and maintain a list of
qualified and experienced consultants to assist Investment
Enterprises in carrying out Investment Projects and periodically
update such list on the basis of experience gained in the carrying
out of such Projects; and (ii) assign a sufficient number of
qualified and experienced staff to supervise all technical assis-
tance by SYKB.
Section 2.14. SYKB shall conclude a protocol satisfactory to
the Bank with at least two commercial banks with an adequate
branch network in the urban areas of Turkey or I§ Bankasi A.S.,
specifying arrangements under which such banks identify, screen
and refer potential Investment Enterprises to SYKB and assist SYKB
in administering Sub-loans. SYKB shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of assigning, or amending,
abrogating or waiving any provision of such protocol without the
Bank's prior consent.
Section 2.15. SYKB shall:
(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank for its approval not
later than July 1, 1981 a program for systematic and comprehensive
project supervision including evaluation of enterprises receiving
technical assistance out of the fund referred to in Section 2.12
of this Agreement six months after completion of such assistance,
and promptly carry out such program after the Bank's approval;
(b) carry out, not later than June 30, 1983, a study under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank inter alia on the
execution of the Project, the use of the proceeds of the Loan
and the performance of the commercial banks under the protocol
referred to in Section 2.14 of this Agreement;


﻿-7-
(c) furnish to the Bank a completion report not later
than six months after the Closing Date, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 2.16. SYKB shall not amend its Statutes without
the Bank's prior consent; the Bank will not withhold its consent
unless such amendment materially and adversely affects the opera-
tions and financial condition of SYKB.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. SYKB shall maintain records (including separate
records for the fund referred in Section 2.12 of this Agreement
and the supervision activities of SYKB) adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including
its cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of SYKB and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. SYKB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than five
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors in English, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of SYKB and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. SYKB represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any
debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed in
writing by the SYKB to the Bank.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SYKB shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner
as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/equity


﻿- 8 -
ratio within the limit referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agree-
ment; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond SYKBI's
control, be temporarily exceeded, promptly take all such reason-
able action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.
Section 3.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Bank and SYKB, SYKB shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to
incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the con-
solidated debt of SYKB and all its subsidiaries then incurred and
outstanding would be greater than nine times the consolidated
capital and surplus of SYKB and all its subsidiaries. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by SYKB or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is origi-
nally incurred;
(b) "subordinated loan" means any debt to mature after the
maturity of any debt outstanding from time to time from creditors
other than shareholders of SYKB and its subsidiaries, such debt to
be repaid in accordance with its terms only after all claims from
such creditors have been satisfied;
(c) debt shall be deemed to be incurred and outstanding:
(i) under a loan contract or agreement (including the Loan Agree-
ment) on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is
drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or
agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but
only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(d) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of liras debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable by SYKB for the purposes of servicing
such debt or in the absence of such rate of exchange, at a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Bank;
(e) "consolidated debt of SYKB and all its subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of SYKB and its subsidiaries,
incl iding any debt owed by SYKB to its shareholders, but excluding
any debt owed by SYKB to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to
SYKB or to any other subsidiary; and


﻿-9-
(f) "consolidated capital and surplus of the SYKB and
its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of and subordinated loans
to SYKB and its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such
amounts as shall represent equity Interests of SYKB in any
subsidiary or of any subsidiary in SYKB or any other subsidiary.
Section 3.06. SYKB shall notify the Bank prior to making
any repayment in advance of maturity in respect of borrowings from
the Borrower or its agencies for medium and long-term relending,
or from any foreign and local source and shall not make any such
repayment which in the judgment of the Bank would materially
affect SYKB's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.07. SYKB shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risks of loss
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including Turkish Liras) used in its operations.
Section 3.08. The Bank and SYKB shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of SYKB and its subsidiaries, and SYKB shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the administration, operations and finan-
cial condition of SYKB and its subsidiaries, and the progress of
the Project.
Section 3.09. SYKB shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agree-
ment and any relevant documents.
Section 3.10. SYKB shall retain at least 5% of its annual net
income up to a maximum of 2% of its loan and equity portfolio as a
reserve to protect itself against losses from bad debts.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of SYKB thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify SYKB thereof.
Section 4.03. All the. provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The address so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SYKB:
Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi A.0.
Barbaros Bulvari 41
Besiktas Istanbul
Turkey


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
YATIRIMBANK                        SYKB 26263 TR
Istanbul
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement on
behalf of or by SYKB may be taken or executed by its General
Manager or by such other person or persons as SYKB shall designate
in writing, and SYKB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Ac1:'j     Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI A.O.
By                  Auoz        Represetatvke
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
Schedule
Urban Areas referred to in Section 2.06 of this Agreement:
Adana, Afyon, Ankara, Antalya, Aydin, Balikesir,
Bursa, Elazig, Eskisehir, Gaziantep, Hatay, Istanbul,
Izmir, Kayseri, Kocaeli, Konya, Kutahya, Malatya,
Sakarya, Samsun, Sivas, Trabzon and Zonguldak.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this J  i     day ofJ 0.ML&  , 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


