Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.15032
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2619-IVC)
JUNE 28, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00  =  CFAF 490 (1988)
= CFAF 290 (1993)
= CFAF 515 (February 1995)
Weights and Measures                                                               Fiscal Year
Metric System                                                           January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BAD            Banqque africaine de developpement (African Development Bank)
BOG            Bureau d'organisation et gestion (Management and Organization Bureau)
CAA            Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
DAF            Direction des affaires financi&res (Directorate for Financial Affairs)
DCGTx          Direction du contr6le des grands travatur (Directorate for Control of Major Works)
DEMM           Direction des equipements, des materiauLv et de ,naintenatice (Directorate for
Equipment, Material and Maintenance)
DIP            Direction des investissements publiques (Directorate for Public Investments)
DRH            Direction des ressources hutnaines (Directorate for Health Manpower)
ECA            Economic Commission for Africa (Commission economique pour l'Afrique)
FAC            Fonds d'aide et de cooperation (French Bilateral Aid Agency)
FED            Fonds europeen de developpement (European Development Fund (European Union))
FP             Family Planning (Planning familial)
INFAS          Institut national deformation des agents de sante (National Institute of Training for
Health Personnel)
INS            Instituit national des statistiques (National Institute of Statistics)
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederauflau (Germany)
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MCU            Ministere de la construction et de l 'urbanisme (Ministry of Construction and Urban
Development)
MEF            Ministere de l'&ononie et desfinances (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MEFP           Ministere de '&economie, des finances et du plani (Ministry of Economy. Finance and
Plan)
MIS            Management Information System
MSPAS          Ministere de la sante publique et des affaires sociales (Ministry of Public Health and
Social Affairs)
MDP            Municipal Development Project
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
UNFPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activities population)
USAID          United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................... i
PART  I.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT   ...............   1
I.            INTRODUCTION ...................                                               1
A.    Macroeconomic Setting ...........................   1
B.    Bank's Role in the Sector ..........................   1
II.           PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ...........                                2
A.    Project Objectives ..............................   2
B.    Project Components .............................   2
C.    Evaluation of Project Objectives  .....................   3
III.          IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS  ..........                             5
A.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability  ...      .......   5
B.    Summary of Financing Arrangements and Costs ...            .........   5
C.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Implementation ...         ........   6
D.    Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance ...         .....   8
E.    Assessment of Project's Outcome .....................  10
IV.           FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED  ..... ..  11
A.    Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience         .....  11
B.    Future Operation and Sustainability  ...................  12
C.    Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in C6te d'Ivoire ... ...  12
PART II.    STATISTICAL ANNEXES  .............................  14
APPENDIXES
A.    MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
B.   GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
C.    MAP IBRD 18942R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
Lofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
(Loan 2619-IVC)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health and
Demographic Project in the Republic of C6te d'Ivoire, for which Loan 2619-IVC in the
amount of US$22.2 million equivalent was approved on September 19, 1985, and made
effective on May 27, 1986.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, following two extensions beyond the
original closing date of June 30, 1992. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement
took place on November 29, 1994. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID)/Bureau of the Census.
The ICR was prepared by Ethna Johnson (PHN) and reviewed by Ian Porter,
Division Chief (AF4PH) and S. Singh, on behalf of the Project Advisor (AF4DR).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission from October 24 to November 5, 1994. It is based on material in the project
file. The Government contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing views reflected
in the mission's Aide-Memoire, by preparing its own evaluation of project preparation
and execution and by commenting on the draft ICR. The Government submitted its input
to the ICR in a final report dated December 27, 1994, which can be found in the
appendixes to the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
(Loan 2619-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Bank's Role in the Country and Sector. The Health and Demographic Project was
the first IBRD-financed health project in C6te d'Ivoire (para. 1.5). It was prepared and
implemented during a period of severe recession in the country. Economic and financial
difficulties commencing in the early 1980s and extending into 1993 coupled with high
population growth (4.1%), resulted in a fall in GNP per capita levels from more than
US$1000 in the early 1980s to US$630 in 1993, below the IDA eligibility cut-off of US$740
(para 1.1). The IMF and the World Bank responded with a series of Standby Arrangements
and a number of SALs/SECALs respectively, designed, inter alia, to reduce the fiscal deficit,
pay off domestic and external arrears and address structural reforms in the sectors (para.
1.2). The expansion that occurred in the 1970s and early 1980s in the health sector could
not be sustained and health indicators lagged behind comparable lower middle-income Sub-
Saharan African countries.   Structural imbalances due to concentration on urban
infrastructure and curative care left the rural population with limited access to health services
(para. 1.3). The Health and Demographic Project, conceived in the framework of the 1981-
86 Development Plan and a national Health Conference held in 1984, supported sector
objectives, and was targeted at expanding output and improving the quality of paramedical
personnel, strengthening management capacity, and improving cost containment and
efficiency measures. The project was also unusual in that it financed a very large separately-
managed demographic component (para. 1.4).
Project Objectives, Components, and Achievements
2.    Project objectives and corresponding components included:
(a)   Expansion and improvement of nurse training and manpower planning by: (i)
upgrading, constructing and equipping of nursing schools; (ii) fellowships for
teaching staff; (iii) review of the nursing curriculum; (iv) field training for
students; and (v) capacity improvement in the Directorate of Health
Manpower of the Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs (MSPAS)
(para. 2.2(a));
(b)   Improved management capacity and efficiency of health services through: (i)
development of a Management and Organization Bureau (BOG); (ii) capacity
building of the central directorates including development of a management
information system (MIS); (iii) training and cost containment measures at
hospitals; and (iv) training in management and administration and upgrading
health centers (para. 2.2(b)); and
(c)   Provision of reliable demographic data for macroeconomic and sector
planning through: (i) a Population Census; (ii) a migration study; and (iii)
capacity building of the National Institute of Statistics (INS) (para. 2.2(c)).



ii
3.    Project objectives were clearly defined and consistent with sector needs. However,
in the absence of a detailed sector operational plan, and strong, consistent Government
commitment, the objectives, particularly with respect to efficiency measures and service
delivery performance, were ambitious. In addition, these components were dispersed and
resources allocated to them were relatively modest (para 2.3).
4.    Loan Covenants and Special Agreements. Agreements with the Borrower (Republic
of Cote D'Ivoire) were reached on the following issues, namely, that the Borrower shall (a)
adequately staff the Nursing Schools and ensure that the said Schools are utilized to their full
capacity; (b) undertake a study of the functions and long-term role of its auxiliary health
workers; (c) undertake an evaluation of the effectiveness of nurse training and management
programs of mother and child health care in the Project Areas, and shall furnish to the Bank
for its review and comments the results of said evaluations no later than December 31, 1987
for Treichville and December 31, 1989 for Bouake; (d) take all necessary action to establish
a Management and Organization Bureau within MOPHP and shall cause it to be assisted by
competent staff in sufficient number under the supervision of experienced and qualified
management; (e) plan for the establishment of the basic management information system (f)
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments the results of the study of (i) the Central
Pharmacy's procurement practices and stock management procedures of the Project and the
proposals for remedying any deficiencies in said practices and procedures; (ii) the alternative
health cost recovery mechanisms; and (iii) the action plan of the Borrower for the
establishment of a health cost recovery system; (g) take all measures necessary to include
the position of nurse specialists in health service management in an appropriate category of
the administrative list of the Borrower's health personnel; (h) furnish to the Bank (i) no later
than January 31, 1986, for approval, a master plan of census and survey activities to be
undertaken under the Project; (ii) no later than October 31, 1987, the preliminary official
results of the census, and the final results of the census and its attendant studies as soon as
available; and (iii) quarterly progress reports on the execution of the Project; and shall cause
the said master plan to be updated no later than December 31 of each year during the
execution of the Project; (i) take all necessary measures to establish within the Directorate
of Statistics of its Ministry of Economy and Finance a Census Bureau and shall cause it to
be assisted by competent staff in sufficient number, and after the completion of the said
census, continue to provide, promptly as needed, staff and budgeting resources sufficient for
the utilization of census and survey records and updating annually the files of localities; (j)
provide in its national budgets for the fiscal year beginning in January 1991 and for any
fiscal year following thereafter amounts sufficient to cover the full costs of continuing, after
the completion of the Project, all the activities and programs provided for in the Project.
Further, the Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. (b) The Borrower shall: (i)
have the accounts referred to in (a) including the Special Accounts and the Project Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by the said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other



iii
information concerning said accounts and the audit thereof and said records as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request. (c) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with (a) separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and (iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in (b) and that
the report thereof contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a separate opinion by the
said auditors as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures have been used of the purpose for which they were provided.
5.    In addition to the above agreements, the following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement: (a) the opening of the Project
Account and the payment of the initial amount; (b) evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that
the Management and Organization Bureau has been established in accordance with the
Agreement; and (c) evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Census Bureau has been
established in accordance with the Agreement.
6.    The project was reasonably successful in achieving most of its objectives.
Implementation achievements were substantial in a number of areas and serious delays were
experienced in others. Although external factors influenced implementation, sector and
executing agency issues had the most significant influence. Physical objectives for nursing
schools were met. Nurse training and pedagogical capacity were substantially improved but
field training was inadequate. There were substantial delays in MIS development, while
other management components were quite successful. The demographic component was the
most successful in reaching objectives. Data is now integrated into planning work, capacity
is substantially strengthened, and the Government has adopted a population policy and family
planning program (para. 2.4).
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    Project Timetable. Project effectiveness was only two months behind schedule.
Loan closing, however, was extended by two years to June 30, 1994, and substantial
slippages occurred in a number of project components (para. 3.1).
8.    Financing Arrangements and Summary of Costs. Financing included an IBRD
Loan of US$22.2 million, a Government contribution of US$7.3 million, and US$250,000
by the USAID/Bureau of the Census. UNFPA provided parallel financing of US$828,000
for the demographic component. Project costs were consistent with appraisal estimates when
expressed in CFAF (-2%). Dramatic exchange rate fluctuations resulted in the need for
supplementary support (US$7.4 million) by the Municipal Development Project, an increase
of 33.6 percent.
9.    Factors Affecting Implementation.  Due to certain design features and1 non-
familiarity with Bank procedures, implementation was slower than expected. In addition,
certain external factors delayed implementation including:  (a) the need to obtain



iv
supplementary financing due to the fall in the value of the US dollar (from CFA franc 490
at appraisal to CFA franc 290 in 1993); (b) devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994
which necessitated amending a number of ongoing contracts; and (c) counterpart financing
difficulties. Sector and executing agency factors had the most significant impact and
included: (a) absence of an agreed strategy and sector operational plan; (b) coordination and
personnel weaknesses and limited integration of the BOG with other departments of MSPAS;
(c) prolonged procurement and lengthy contract approval and payment procedures; and (d)
delays in replenishment of the special account (para. 3.3).
10.   Sustainability. It is assessed that current Governments actions, if continued, would
make the project sustainable. The Government's current expenditures for health are expected
to increase for priority needs based on reforms introduced in support of the economic
recovery program.  It is anticipated that resources will be adequate for operation and
maintenance of project components.  Several components are well integrated into the
Government's program (demographic work, nursing training), but other priorities such as
the MIS, and practical student training, need to be reinforced. A proposed follow-up Bank-
financed health project will address a number of sectoral problems including institutional
development and budget priorities, that sustain project outcomes (para. 3.4).
11.   Assessment of the Borrower's and Bank's Performance. Government and Bank
collaboration was good on project design and implementation. Project design was ambitious,
components quite diverse and not well integrated and the project timetable warranted greater
attention to up-front measures. Alternative design features (project management and review
and use of training facilities) could have improved performance considerably. Supervision
was inadequate on both sides, with limited Government staffing and supervision and limited
field supervision and inadequate skill-mix of Bank missions for such a diverse project.
Although delays occurred, compliance with loan covenants was reasonably satisfactory with
the exception of Audits (paras. 3.5-3.12).
12.   Assessment of the Project's Outcome. The project was successful in reaching most
of its major objectives despite some design and implementation weaknesses, complex
management arrangements and intervening external factors. Although some shortcomings
are evident, there is substantial integration of project components into the Government's
program. While the capacity to provide recurrent costs for project operation remains fragile,
IDA's expected involvement under the proposed follow-up project will help to build on
earlier achievements. In addition, it will support efforts to build a stronger analytical and
management base as well as improve the physical capacity of the sector. Overall project
outcome is considered satisfactory (para. 4.1).
Future Operation and Sustainability
13.   With respect to future operation of the project, issues to be resolved include: (a)
setting criteria for entry to nursing schools and determining private and public sector training
needs; (b) continued work to revise the curriculum and practical training for students; (c)
adequate resource allocation to ensure proper operation and maintenance of facilities; (d)
expansion of the work on cost containment and internal efficiency of health services; (e)
further development and implementation of the nationwide MIS system, ensuring that it is



v
fully decentralized; and (f) continued support through the MEFP for demographic work and
its full utilization in the planning process. Data already collected needs to be fully exploited
and results disseminated.
Findings and Lessons Learned
14.   Design work should closely assess physical needs, project management arrangements
and include up-front conditionalities and preparation work on project staffing, procurement,
coordination, accounting systems, and operating procedures. Systematic and regular project
review and appropriate resource allocation and skill-mix of Bank missions should be assessed
to ensure adequate supervision. Agreement should be reached on sector priorities and
performance indicators and resource levels at project appraisal. The Bank may want to
consider a shorter project time-frame with phased implementation, and dovetailing of
subsequent projects to avoid loss of staff and financing gaps. Finally, efforts to consolidate
achievements of the first project and ensure that recurrent cost requirements are met is a
priority (paras. 4.2-4.3).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
(Loan 2619-IVC)
PART I.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. INTRODUCTION
A.Macroeconomic Setting
1.1   The Republic of C6te d'Ivoire had an extended period of rapid economic development
and balance of payments equilibrium in the 1960s and 1970s based on favorable prices for
the country's two main export crops, coffee and cocoa. Due to poor economic and financial
management and an end to the cocoa boom in 1980, the country experienced a prolonged and
severe economic and financial crisis. In addition, natural population growth (3.1 percent)
and substantial inflows of migrant workers (1 percent), put increased pressures on the
economy. Per capita GNP fell from over US$1,000 in the early 1980s to US$630 in 1993.
1.2   Faced with a worsening economic and financial situation, the Government sought
support from the IMF and the World Bank. IMF support was obtained through an Extended
Agreement in February 1981, which was followed by five Stand-By Arrangements in the
1980s and another in 1991. World Bank assistance included three SALs during 1981-1986
and six Sector Adjustment Loans between 1989 and 1991. The IMF and World Bank
support was designed, inter alia, to reduce the fiscal deficit, pay off domestic and external
arrears, and address structural reforms in the sectors.
B.    Bank's Role in the Sector
1.3  In line with the expansion of the economy, C6te d'Ivoire invested considerable
resources in the health sector in the 1970s and early 1980s but performance was both
unsatisfactory and uneven. The heavy concentration on developing urban hospitals and
curative care left the rural population with limited or no access to health services. Health
indicators lagged behind comparable lower middle-income Sub-Saharan African countries.
The economic downturn meant that investment levels could not be maintained and recurrent
budgets were severely affected.
1.4   The Government's Fourth Development Plan (1981-1985), and the national Health
Conference held in 1984, set forth a number of sector objectives including: (i) improved
access to and quality of health services in rural areas; (ii) improved quality and quantity of
health manpower; and (iii) improved management and cost containment/efficiency measures.



2
1.5   The Health and Demographic Project, the first IBRD-financed loan in the sector in
C6te d'Ivoire, was limited in scope but supported these objectives.  In addition, the
demographic component of the project was consistent with the Govermnent's and the Bank's
objective to improve the knowledge base about population growth and migration patterns and
their implications for socio-economic development. This analysis would also provide the
framework for development of a coherent population policy, which the country has now
adopted. The project was unusual in that it combined a health component with a large
separately-managed demographic component.
II.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A.   Project Objectives
2.1   The three main objectives of the project were to:
(a)   Expand and improve nursing training to meet current shortages, make training
more responsive to the Government's priority objectives, and to develop long-
term manpower planning;
(b)   Improve the management capacity and efficiency of health services; and
(c)   Provide reliable demographic information for use in macroeconomic and
sector planning.
B.    Project Components
2.2   The project consisted of three major components:
Part A.     Health Manpower Development.
(a)   Upgrade and equip Treichville Nursing School in Abidjan and establish and
equip two new nursing schools in Bouake and Korhogo;
(b)   Finance 42 fellowships to ensure availability of key teaching staff for the new
schools;
(c)   Implement, monitor and evaluate a new curriculum for the nursing schools in
order to improve the quality of training;
(d)   Provide practical experience for nursing students through implementation of
a field training program in three geographic areas linked to the schools; and
(e)   Strengthen management and planning capacity of the Directorate of Health
Manpower (DRH) in the MSPAS.



3
Part B.     Strengthen Management Capacity of MSPAS
(a)   Establish a Management and Organization Bureau (BOG) within the central
health ministry, develop a management information system (MIS) including
epidemiological monitoring, and improve planning and operations of selected
directorates (Maintenance and Pharmaceuticals);
(b)   Provide management training and related technical assistance to upgrade
management skills of hospital staff; develop cost containment and internal
efficiency mechanisms; study and develop cost recovery mechanisms for two
national hospitals and 5 regional hospitals; and strengthen selected hospital
services; and
(c)   Provide in-service training, including in management and administration, for
all levels of health staff in 70 peripheral health centers; reinforce this training
through implementation of a program of regular supervision; evaluate primary
care activities including maternal and child health (MCH) and family planning
(FP) and immunization; and upgrade and equip about 70 health centers and
dispensaries.
Part C.     Population Data Development
(a)   Implement a program of demographic data collection and analysis by
strengthening the National Institute of Statistics (INS), including a census of
localities, a general population census in 1987, a post-enumeration survey and
a survey of migration as well as publication of results; and
(b)   Integrate the results into planning activities of all relevant ministries through
seminars and follow-up studies, and dissemination of results to all levels of
Government, community leaders and NGOs.
The first two components (Part A and B) were implemented by the MSPAS and the third
component (Part C) was implemented initially by the Ministry for Economy and Finance
(MEF) and later transferred into the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan (MEFP).
C.    Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.3   Project objectives were clearly defined and consistent with the country strategy and
sector needs. However, in the absence of a detailed sector strategy, operational plan and
strong and consistent government commitment, the objectives particularly with respect to cost
containment and efficiency measures were ambitious and resources allocated to these
components were relatively modest.



4
2.4   Overall, the project was partially successful in achieving its objectives. Substantial
developments occurred in a number of areas and serious delays in others. Although external
factors (para. 3.3) did influence project implementation, sector and executing agency issues
had the most significant influence on project execution and objectives.
(a)    Expansion and Improvemnent itn Nurse Training and Improved Manpower
Planning: The nurse training and pedagogical capacity at the three nursing
schools was substantially improved and met objectives. Due to construction
delays, student intake initially fell short of objectives.  However, once
operational, intake in all three schools met targets and exceeded in the early
years of the project.  Physical objectives for field training fell short of
expectations. Out of a total ot 70 proposed training sites, 49 student housing
units were constructed and health centers rehabilitated. However, due to low
utilization of accommodation and alternative options for student housing in the
community and at the health centers, revisions to this program for student
accommodation were justified. However, practical training objectives were
not met in qualitative terms due to limited equipment and supplies and training
of trainers. The inventory of sector personnel was completed but the system
is not fully operational and longer-term human resource planning work is still
in its early stages. A draft report prepared under the project related to the
role and status of auxiliary health personnel provided the input for the recent
decision to integrate this categorv of health worker into the civil service
function.
(b)   Management Capacity and Healthl Service Efficiency: Although limited in
scope at one level, this component combined a diverse set of activities, some
of which were extremely ambitious but not well integrated. Furthermore,
resources allocated for this work were limited. Development of the MIS,
maintenance, and cost containment and cost recovery efforts had mixed
results. The maintenance component undertaken by the Directorate for
Equipment, Material and Maintenance (DEMM) included training and a study
of equipment maintenance.  Following successful implementation of this
component, several donors are now financing sector maintenance work.
Study work on cost recovery although prolonged has recently resulted in the
launching of a nationwide cost recovery program. Staff training was provided
in hospital management, prescription practices, and for hospital ward
supervisors to improve performnance and efficiency but the impact of this is
not yet clear. The MIS experienced the most serious delays and did not meet
objectives.  This was due mainly to lack of adequate consensus on key
elements of this component during project preparation. It is still in the early
stages of design and development and equipment for this component was not
purchased prior to project closing. Project scope was expanded to include
three AIDS studies (1993) and the definition of nursing care norms (1991) and
are on-going activities in the project.



5
(c)   Demographic Work:  Despite implementation delays and design changes
(integration of the migration study with the West African Migration Study),
this component was successful in reaching objectives. However, it should be
noted that very substantial technical assistance resources were allocated to the
component. The Census was completed and published and the Migration
Study is in the final stages of tabulation work. There is considerable use of
the data by EFP, the Ministry of National Education (preparation of the carte
scolaire, regional planning exercises, estimations of educational levels, etc.),
the Directorate for Control of Major Works (DCGTx) and donors such as
UNICEF.  In particular, DCGTx uses the results extensively to make
projections, prepare area maps and plan extension work in different sectors
and the data and cartographic information have been computerized by
DCGTx.  In terms of institution building, the project has succeeded in
improving INS capacity to do census and other study work.
III.  IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability
3.1   Project Timetable: The project was approved by the Board of Executive Directors
on September 19, 1985, signed on September 27, 1985, and became effective on May 27,
1986, two months behind scheduled effectiveness. Project closing date, initially scheduled
for June 30, 1992, was extended by 18 months and subsequently by a further six months to
June 30, 1994. A third and final request made by the Government to extend the closing date
by a further six months due to devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 (para. 3.3),
was not approved by the Bank. The project was executed over an eight and a half year
period against the projected six and a half years and was fully disbursed. Final disbursement
of funds took place on November 29, 1994.
B.   Summary of Financing Arrangements and Costs
3.2   Financing Arrangements and Costs: Project financing arrangements included an
IBRD Loan (US$22.2 million), a Government contribution (US$7.3 million) for local costs
and financing by the USAID/Bureau of the Census (US$0.25 million). In addition, the
United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) contributed US$828,000 in parallel
financing for census work, particularly for technical assistance.  Program costs were
consistent with appraisal estimates when expressed in CFAF (-2 percent).  Dramatic
exchange rate fluctuations resulted in the need for supplementary support (US$7.4 million)
obtained in 1989 through the Municipal Development Project (Loan 3218-IVC), an increase
of 33.6 percent when expressed in US dollars, for construction of Korhogo Nursing School
and the Migration Study. This increase corresponds to 22 percent for Part A and B and 76
percent for Part C of the project. Implementation delays and some changes in project scope
resulted in cost overruns for the demographic component for census activities, training,
equipment, vehicles and materials. This was due to the large and unexpected increase in



6
encampments requiring increased resources and time for the census of localities and difficult
access necessitated more sturdy motorcycles for field work. Part A and B cost overruns
were incurred mainly for architectural and engineering services, training, and furniture,
equipment, vehicles and materials (Footnotes in Annex 8C). Studies were initiated on AIDS
and norms for nursing care due to needs identified during project implementation, which
increased the scope of the studies financed under the project.
C.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Implementation
3.3   Due to certain design  features (diverse components, separate management
arrangements) limited up-front implementation arrangements, and non-familiarity with Bank
procedures, implementation was slower than expected. The largest component, civil works
for nursing schools, was assigned to the DCGTx which had extensive experience in civil
works. However, complex management arrangements and diversity of components as well
as the implementation schedule agreed (six and a half years) warranted greater attention to
up-front measures such as: (a) adequate staffing and resources to the BOG and PCU; (b)
established procedures to ensure good interaction between the BOG and the technical
departmnents of the MSPAS; and (c) a mechanism for annual planning and review of project
implementation through, for example, a project launch workshop, annual programming, and
a mid-term review of the project, to assess the continued relevance of the project components
to sector needs (para. 4.2). In addition, factors outside the executing agencies' control had
an impact on project implementation. These included: (a) lack of timely and adequate
counterpart financing; (b) the fall in the value of the US dollar (falling from CFA franc 490
to CFA franc 290 to 1 US$ between March 1985 and 1993 respectively) resulting in the need
to secure supplementary financing (para. 3.2); and (c) the decision in January 1994 to realign
the parity of the CFA franc from 50 CFA franc to 100 CFA franc per French franc resulted
in procurement delays due to the need to amend a number of contracts. Absence of a clear
and agreed sector strategy and operational plan were probably most significant for Part B of
the project.
(a)   Training and Manpower Planning: Slippages of up to two years occurred in
the physical aspects of the project. Major causes for delay were (i) the
lengthy approval procedures for signature of contracts (more than 1 year) by
the concerned Ministries - Health, Finance and Plan and Construction, and
internal delays (3-4 months) within a single ministry - Department of Public
Investments (DIP), Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA); (ii) lengthy
payment procedures (delays up to 4 months) involving Project Coordination
Unit, Directorate for Financial Affairs, Directorate for Public Investments,
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, for suppliers and construction companies,
and sometimes exacerbated by lack of counterpart funds and late requests for
replenishment of the special account; (iii) incorrect equipment cost estimates
leading to a prolonged bidding process (Korhogo Nursing School equipment);
(iv) occasional non-conformity with Bank procurement guidelines (enclosure
for Bouake Nursing School); and (v) contractor weaknesses (resulting in



7
reissue of contract for technical studies for Korhogo Nursing School).
However, physical implementation was expedited by PPF financing for the
preparation of bidding documents for Treichville and Bouak6 Nursing Schools
and the decision to assign civil works components to the implementing
agencies most experienced in this area (DCGTx and Directorate for
Equipment, Material and Maintenance).
(b)   Management Capacity  and  Health  Service  Efficiency:    The  slow
implementation of studies and other components related to cost recovery,
pharmaceuticals, personnel management and establishment of the management
information system (MIS) is reflected in delays in meeting dated covenants
and completing studies. This was caused by (i) absence of a clear and
consistent sector strategy and operational plan  based on broad sector
consultations and consensus which could have accelerated several of the
management components of the project (MIS, pharmaceutical component); (ii)
frequent Ministerial changes; (iii) limited capacity of the BOG (only two of
three expatriates were recruited) and limited integration of the BOG as a
strategic planning and programming entity within the MSPAS; and (iv) limited
capacity of the PCU (only one staff member during the first two years, and
a part-time accountant) resulting in:  (a) a poorly performing financial
management and accounting system; (b) limited resources and enthusiasm for
field supervision; and (c) limited familiarity with Bank procurement and
monitoring procedures. The non-availability of counterpart funds and delays
in replenishment of the Special Account (SA) affected all components of the
project.
(c)   Demographic  Work:   Although implementation delays occurred, the
demographic component's objectives were substantially met. The census
work was delayed by one year and the migration study, scheduled to be
completed in 1989, was merged with the West African Migration Study
leading to a substantial reprogramming of activities. One significant factor
which positively influenced implementation was the regular review and
programming exercises undertaken as part of the tripartite meetings between
the Government, UNFPA/ECA, USAID/Bureau of the Census and the World
Bank and the extensive work program supervision by all the donors (para.
3.7). Implementation delays were caused by: (i) the transfer of census work
from the Ministry of Economy and Finance to the Ministry of Plan in 1986
leaving a period of uncertainty; (ii) administrative, logistical and some
technical weaknesses during the census of localities; and (iii) technical
weaknesses in the census bureau resulted in non-publication of the post-census
survey or use of this data to evaluate census coverage despite substantial
resources assigned to the activity.  In addition, the National Census
Committee was not particularly effective in cross-department coordination and
the non-replacement of the Director of Statistics for a long period may have



8
contributed to work program delays and problems in maintaining timely
financial records. The Government has not complied with the Audit covenant
for this component of the project. However, this component was successful
due to the substantial institution building efforts, successful completion of the
Census and Migration Study and integration and use of data by various
institutions.
R     Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance
3.4   Bank's Performance. Project design was consistent with needs in the sector but
addressed only a limited number of concerns. The nursing and demographic components had
a number of well integrated activities. However, the management component had several
sub-components which were quite diverse in nature and not well integrated. The physical
components should have been linked more closely with student training schedules to ensure
optimum use of facilities. Given that this was the first IBRD-financed project in the sector,
and it was prepared at a time when the development of a sector strategy and plan were not
included as part of Bank preparation work, there were a number of inherent and important
risks related to its implementation, coordination and supervision. These risks were only
partially recognized at the project appraisal stage, and further, it was not clear how the
strategic and planning role of the BOG and the project management role of the PCU would
fit into the Ministry of Health's overall management system.
3.5   Bank supervision performance was mixed. Although there was good continuity in
terms of supervision staff and relationships with the Government were good, resources were
inadequate both in terms of the overall levels of field supervision and the skill mix of
missions. While resources used for project preparation and appraisal were substantial (150
staff weeks), resources applied to supervision were inadequate (93 staff weeks) despite the
diversity of components and complex management arrangements. In the start-up phase,
inadequate attention was given to the development of a computerized accounting and financial
management system, and to difficulties with completing staffing arrangements. During the
period 1988 to 1992, supervision missions were conducted solely by the Task Manager due
to resource constraints and did not exceed 3 weeks each year, despite the diverse nature of
the components and the need for a better skill-mix on missions. Although organized
somewhat late to have a sustained impact, the Bank disbursement seminar of 1993 was
considered by project managers to be particularly useful.
3.6   The transfer of one component due to the availability of grant financing from the EU
for the pharmaceutical component, and the inclusion of others based on identified needs
(development of a midwifery program at Korhogo, a study of the impact of AIDS, and the
development of norms and procedures for nursing care) shows that the Bank was responsive
to identified needs and this work contributed to expanding sector knowledge in these areas.
3.7   Borrower's Performance. The Government worked closely with the Bank during
project preparation. Preparatory work on the physical components, financed under the PPF,



9
advanced quickly. Design limitations related to the size of schools (underutilization of space)
and accommodation for students (used two months a year) as well as the management
arrangements for the project.
3.8   Despite early delays related to the Census and management components of the
project, physical components advanced relatively quickly. DCGTx's involvement in the
large construction/rehabilitation work was particularly helpful in the case of Korhogo
Nursing School (para. 3.3(a)). However, difficult working relationships between the MSPAS
and DCGTx, Ministerial changes, and other project-related weaknesses resulted in a series
of delays in several components, the most notable being the MIS (para. 3.3(b)). The
Government also had difficulties in meeting financial commitments for counterpart financing.
In addition, replenishment of the two special accounts managed by the CAA was not
requested in a timely manner resulting in the non-availability of funds for up to three months
each year. The Government was responsive and successfully obtained financing (through
the Municipal Development Project) for the migration study and construction of Korhogo
Nursing School following exchange rate changes (para. 3.2).
3.9   Limited project staffing and lack of integration of BOG's work with the technical
departments in MSPAS, coupled with difficult working relationships with DCGTx affected
the feeling of ownership and regular review and collaboration on components. Conversely,
the review and planning process adopted through the tripartite meetings for the demographic
component (para. 3.3(c)), led to clear agreements on work program timetables, input
requirements and technical needs.  Technical support was provided through numerous
missions by the donors, (51 in all including Bank missions), all of which contributed to the
well-managed work program adopted by the Governrment for this component. However, a
large level of technical assistance was used under this component.
3.10 A perpetual problem experienced by the project was the lack of a computerized
accounting and financial management system and consolidated accounts. At the PCU
managing the health component, a project accountant only arrived in the Unit in 1990. The
INS did not have a computerized system for accounting and financial management. In this
context, it was extremely difficult to assign expenditures to specific project components and
follow-up was further complicated by a particularly lengthy approval process from initiation
to payment of bills.
3.11 Although delays occurred with respect to Loan covenants, the Government's record
was reasonably good with the exception of audits for the demographic component which are
still outstanding. The long delay in replacing the Director of Statistics may have resulted
in the lack of good financial record-keeping and audit delays as well as implementation
delays in census work. During the completion mission, the Government gave assurances that
the two outstanding audits would be completed by December 1994, and the reports have been
received. Besides the serious delays in receiving audits for 1992 and 1993 from the INS,
full corrective measures were not implemented to respond to earlier audit recommendations
for the project.



10
E.    Assessment of Project's Outcome
3.12  Project Sustainability.  The Government's capacity to meet recurrent budget
requirements is essential for: (a) operation and maintenance of the nursing schools and
training sites; (b) improvement in management practices at all levels and in particular the
development of the MIS; and (c) development and dissemination of demographic data and
further demographic work by the Census Bureau. The Government's current expenditures
for health are expected to increase for priority programs based on reforms introduced under
the Bank-financed economic recovery program and the groundwork laid by the Human
Resources Development Program. In addition, the proposed health sector project currently
under preparation (FY96), should help to improve and sustain project operation and
outcomes, by supporting reforms and activities to improve management performance at the
central and decentralized levels. It should also expand and improve the quality of primary
care (which has direct relevance for both the nursing program and management component
of this project). Most importantly, the new project will address resource allocation and
management in the context of a sector policy that is operationally relevant and supports the
priorities set for the sector.
(a)   Training and Manpower Planning: Utilization of the nursing schools to their
full capacity may be jeopardized by the Government's recent decision to not
provide guaranteed entry into the civil service following nursing studies. In
addition, a reduction in output from the three schools could seriously affect
the Ministry's capacity to adequately staff public health facilities.   The
Government is currently reviewing possibilities for training both public and
private sector students in order to ensure full utilization of training facilities.
In addition, responsibility for setting criteria for entrance to the nursing
program has been transferred to the National Institute of Training for Health
Personnel (INFAS) resulting in delays in receiving the new cohort of students.
Although overall quality of facilities is good, maintenance of schools and
facilities at the training sites is inadequate, and maintenance responsibilities
need to be clearly defined. In addition, the limited use of housing by students
(2 months per year) during field training needs to be reviewed in the context
of curriculum scheduling. With respect to curriculum development work, the
evaluation of norms for health care needs to be finalized and reflected in the
proposed revisions to the nursing curriculum. Additional financing will be
required for this activity and the Government is actively seeking financing to
test and revise the new guidelines. Autonomy in the management of the
nursing schools' budgets in 1995 and placement of an accountant at the
schools, starting with Bouake, should lead to improved use of funds.
However, the current allocations for the three schools in 1994 (CFAF 84
million) was inadequate to cover all operational and preventive maintenance.
The proposed follow-up project should review with the Government the
staffing norms for public facilities and output requirement of the schools as
well as the budgetary allocation for pre-service training.



11
(b)   Management Capacity: Following limited project support for improving the
Ministry's capacity in maintenance, several donors (BAD, FAC, FED, KfW,
Japan) are now providing substantial resources to decentralize the maintenance
system and prepare a nationwide inventory of facilities and equipment. The
Pharmaceutical sector work continues to be supported by the European
Development Fund. Recognizing the importance of the MIS, the Ministry has
already initiated discussions with the Bank and other donors (Canada) to
obtain additional financing for its development. The project's study and
training work on cost recovery and cost containment efforts is now beginning
to yield results at the hospital level, although supervision and performance at
the health center level is particularly weak.
(c)   Demographic Mbrk: The capacity of the INS has been greatly strengthened.
In addition, the decision to undertake a census every ten years is considered
to be an important step in institutionalizing and using demographic data as
part of the planning process. Recurrent budget requirements remain an issue
however as is the need to sustain a core group of experienced staff.
IV. FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A.    Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience
4.1   The project was successful in reaching most of its major objectives despite
implementation weaknesses, complex management arrangements, and intervening external
factors. In spite of the shortcomings identified, there is substantial integration of project
components into the Government's program.  The capacity to provide recurrent cost
requirements for operation is a key issue for project sustainability and outcome. IDAs
continued involvement in the sector should build on achievements under this project and
build a stronger analytical and management base as well as improve physical capacity and
ensure that recurrent cost needs are met. Overall, the project's outcome is considered to be
satisfactory.
B.    Future Operation and Sustainability
4.2   With respect to future operation of the project, issues to be resolved include: (a)
setting criteria for entry to nursing schools and determining private and public sector training
needs; (b) continued work to revise the curriculum and practical training for students; (c)
adequate resource allocation to ensure proper operation and maintenance of facilities; (d)
expansion of the work on cost containment and internal efficiency of health services; (e)
further development and implementation of the nationwide MIS system, ensuring that it is
fully decentralized; and (f) continued support through the MEFP for demographic work and
its full utilization in the planning process. Data already collected needs to be fully exploited
and results disseminated.



12
C     Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in CMte d'Ivoire
4.3   The principal lessons to be drawn from this experience and implications for the
project's future operations and ongoing future projects in the sector include the following:
(a)   Project scope and content should be coherent and support an agreed sector
strategy and program that is based on a consensus and agreed upon by the
different Government departmnents. Design of physical components should
carefully assess facility utilization and recurrent cost implications for
operation and maintenance;
(b)   Agreement should be reached up-front on performance indicators, and be
reviewed through project launch workshops, annual programming exercises,
and a mid-term assessment (para. 3.10);
(c)   Project management arrangements should be agreed upon including staffing
commitments and roles of key technical units.   Most important, a
computerized accounting and financial management system, as well as
advance preparatory work on procurement, terms of reference for studies and
other tasks through PPF financing should be initiated (para. 3.3). Up-front
conditionalities and up-stream work should improve implementation and
resolve a number of issues prior to negotiations and Board approval;
(d)   Bank missions should be more frequent with skill-mix tailored to the technical
and management requirements of the project. The Bank may want to consider
delegation of certain tasks to the Resident Mission; and
(e)   The Bank may want to consider a shorter time-frame for future projects with
phased implementation based on an agreed work program with the
Government. In addition, some dovetailing of projects will reduce staff losses
and reduce the risks of financing gaps.



13
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES



14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives     Substantial   Partial    Negligible  N   appicable
Macro policies                                El          E l0
Sector policies                   D           i[]                     El
Financial Objectives              EEl                     E l
Institutional development         E                       E            El
Physical objectives               E                       E            El
Poverty reduction                 El          E           El
Gender issues                     n           E            El
Other social objectives            El                     E            El
Environmental objectives           a          E           El
Public sector management                                 E            El
Private sector development         n          E           El
Other (specify)                    n          E            E           E
B. Proiet susainability             Likely             Unlikely         Uncertain
C. Bank performance                satisfactory       Safa ry            Deficient
Identifidation                    0                                     E l
Preparation assistance                                                  El
Appraisal                        E                                      El
Supervision                       O                   El
(Continued)



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (Continued)
Highly
D. Borrwowerperformance            satisfactory        Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                        [                    0]
Implementation                     []
Covenant compliance                E                   El
Operation (if applicable)                              0                  El
Hi -                     ghE
E. Assessment of outcome    satisfactov   Satisfactoy    Unsafisfactory    unsatisact
El            0               El               E



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title               Purpose              Year of                   Status
Following Operations                                  Approval                                         l
I.L31280-IVC          Municipal Development Project     1990    Project closed December 31, 1994.
2.L32510-IVC           Pilot Women in Development        1991    Extended by I year to June 30, 1995
Project
3.L34280-IVC           Human Resources Adjustment        1992    Project closed September 30, 1994
Operation
4.C2505-IVC            Human Resources Management        1993    Closing scheduled for December 31, 1996
Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle   Date Planned'      Revised Date'           Actual date
Identification                                                November 1981
Preparation                                                   October '82-October '84
Appraisal                                                     November 1984
Post - Appraisal                                              March 1985
Negotiations                                                  July/August 1985
Board presentation                                            September 19, 1985
Signing                                                       September 27, 1985
Effectiveness          March 26, 1986      May 27, 1986       May 27, 1986
Project completion     December 31, 1991                _     December 31, 1994'
Loan closing           June 30, 1992       December 31, 1993
____________________    ________________    June  30,  1994   June  30,  1994
Due to transfer from the management information system to a cost accounting system, the planned and revised dates of
key events in the preparation timetable are not available. The timetable in the Memorandum of the President reflects only
actual dates of key events in the project cycle.
2 Ibid
3Planned date for remaining equipment deliveries to Korhogo Nursing School.



17
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ thousands)
Calendar Year
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992    1993   1994
Appraisal estimates           2,400   6,200  10,900  15,500  19,300  21,500  22,200
Actual                        1,297  4,910  11,711  15,012  16,195  17,582  18,685  19,477  22,200
r ctual as % of estimate       54%    79%    107%    97%        84%    82%      84%    88%    100%
[Date of final disbursement:   Nov. 29 1994
R A
_te
5w7,,~~~
Series I= Appraisal estimates
Series 2= Actual disbursement
Note: As of November 29, 1994



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in SAR                  Estimated              Actual
1. Health Manpower Development
Number of new nursing schools                                        2                  2
Number of renovated nursing schools                                  I                  I
Student output
-Treichville                                                  1235               1204
-Bouake                                                        400                473
-Korhogo                                                       240                 04
Number of trained nurse tutors                                      42                38'
Study of the function and long-
term role of auxiliary health workers                          30/05/88           30/05/88
Number of Nursing Supervisors trained                               50                108
Number of student houses built                                      70                 49
2. Strengthening of Management and Efficiency
Number of Regional Directors trained                                 8                  8
Number of hospital directors trained                                I                  11"
Number trained in management and administration                     22                 22
Establishment of MOB                                          Aug.-'85            Apr-'86
Establishment of MIS                                           Oct.-'85        in progress
Strengthening of hospital management and services
-cost-control                                           10/85-12/90         1989-1994
-cost-containment                                       03/85-10/90         in progress
-renovation of kitchens                                     1986/87           1987/88
Number of physicians trained in prescription practices             200                200
Development of maintenance system                            1985-1988          1989-1990
Training of technicians/biomedical engineers                        12                13'
Number of health centers rehabilitated                              70                 49
3. Population Data Development
Census of localities                                           Dec.-85            Feb.-86
General population census                                     March 87           March 88
Post-census survey                                             April 87           April 88
Migration survey                                                 Jan 87          Sept. 93'
Other Indicators
The impact of AIDS in Cote d'lvoire 3 studies        l           1995w          in progress
Patient care practices norms development                       6/5/92'j         in progress
4First cohort of 78 students entered school in March 1994.
5An additional 21 were trained through WHO financing.
6A total of 71 trained including financing from FAC (local plus foreign training).
7A total of 49 were trained including financing from WHO, FAC, AfDB, and KfW.
Migration study, combined with West African Migration Study which changed scope of work.
9Studies not included at evaluation of project.
'Studies not included at evaluation of project.



19
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Operating Indicators in SAR         [  Estimated          Actual
1. Health Manpower Development
Number of nursing schools                        3              3
Student intake - academic year 93/94
-Treichville                                160            142
-Bouake                                     80             73
-Korhogo                                    80             78
Nursing Supervisors trained/year                 20             20
Field training for students                      I month/yr.    I month/yr.
Personnel management/Inventory                   1987           1992"
2. Strengthening of Management Capacity of MSPAS
Cost recovery system in place                    1988           1994''
MOB in place                                     8/85           since 4/86
MIS established                                  10/85          under development
Development of maintenance system                1985-1988      1989-1990
3. Population Data Development
10-year general population census             | 4/87            4/88
Migration Survey                                | 1/87          9/93"
11Staff information system not functioning well which limits human resource planning efforts.
12 National cost recovery system being tested.
13Results expected February 1995.



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                           Purpose as defined at appraisal             Status                    mpact   Stud y
I . Redesign of basic nursing cirriculum    to enhance the quality of basis training    underway       -norms for patient care defined. -study results to
be integrated with curriculum work (see. 9 below)
2. Development of cost-control] internal  to improve financial management in the seven most    work ongoing   -study of sample of hospitals at each level
efficiency measures                important hospitals                                             -financial management systems in place
3. Management information system      to improve planning and management of resources   1990/1991      -preliminary study work completed.
including epidemiological data                                                                     -serious delays with follow-up. -testing
underway.
4. Study of the functions and long-term    to improve human resource planning            1988          -auxiliary health worker statute passed
role of auxiliary health worker                                                                     -needs identified
-training needs identified
-organization of entry exams underway
5. Study of pharmaceutical procurement  to improve procurement and stock management     1991           -financed by the EU
practices and stock management                                                                     -results of the study under assessment             o
procedures
6. Evaluation of service delivery costs in  assess costs                                underway       -part of a series of studies to develop cost-
country                                                                                             recovery system.
-system now in place- 1994
7. Guide for accounting and budgeting    to improve budgeting and accounting            1992           -improved information for setting budget
allocations to health facilities
8. Development of maintenance system    Improve infrastructure and equipment maintenance  1991         -donor support to develop decentralized
maintenance system - nationwide inventory of
facilities and equipment underway
9. Development of patient care norms   to irmprove quality of care/imput for training'  underway       -guidelines being tested
10. The impact of AIDS in Cote d'Ivoire   socioeconomic impact of AIDS"                 underway       designed to improve knowledge base about AIDS
I Not included at appraisal. Initiated in 1991 in response to concerns about quality of care and training
2Not included at appraisal. Initiated in 1993 to evaluate impact on transport sector, long-term economic growth prospects and labor force.



Table 8A: Project Costs
A breakdown of project costs by component is not available.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source              Appraisal Estimates                         Health and Demographic Project                  Additional support from Municipal Development Project
( in millions)'                     Actual Financing (in CFA Franc millions)                                 (IVC 3128)
Dollars US   Francs CFA       In %        PartA+B               Part C        Total HNP    In %      Part A+B         PantC        Subtotal MDP    In %    TOTAL
(1)           (2)          (3)           (4)                 (5)              (6)        (7)        (8)            (9)             (10)        (I1)    (12)
IBRD              22.200        10.892.202   74.7       4,338.923.3         939,500.0       5,278,423.3    51.4     1,542,696.4    1,898,900.0    3,441.596.4     8.4     8,720,019.7
US Bureau            200           98.128    0.7           0.0               59,441.7        59,441.7       0.6            0.0            0.0         0.0         0.0     59,441.7
of the
Census
Govemment          7.300        3,581.670   24.6        4,078,150.8         851,000.0       4,929,150.8    48.0      436,000.0      200,000.0      636,000.0      15.6   5,565,150.8
Contribution
Total             29.700        14,572.000    100       8,417.074,1         1,849,941.7     10,267,015.8   100     1,978,696.4    2,098,900.0     4,077,596.4     100     14,344.612.2
' Exchange rate of USS I =CFA Franc 490 at time of appraisal.



22
Table 8C: Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Loan (US$)
Category                            Planned        %        Revised        %      Final (11/29/940)       %
Allocation             Allocation                Disbursement
8/15190
Parts A and B of the Project
1. Civil works                                           7,000.000       75      8,000,000      75           8,146,328.57       75
2. Architectural and engineering services                  200,000       80        200,000       80           352,990.592        80
3. Furniture, equipment, vehicles and materials          2,600,000       75      2,600,000       75         3,262,587.893       75
4. Consultant and Specialist Services                    2,500,000    100        2,500,000    100           3,050,927.654    100
5-A MSPAS Project Operation Costs                          700,000       85        700,000      85'            746,640.26        85
5-B MSPAS Project Operation Costs                          500,000       60        500,000       60            500,243.86       60
5-C MSPAS Project Operation Costs                          800,000       30        800,000       30            468,469.78       30
6. Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                490.000                 490,000                     296,962.16
7. Unallocated                                           2,710,000               1,710,000                            0.00
special account (Part A & B)                                   0                       0                   -24,989.515
Part C of the Project
8. Civil works                                             200.000       75        200,000       75            137,233.07       75
9. Furniture, equipment, vehicles and materials            500.000       80        500,000       80         1,086,404.996        80
10. Census activities                                    3,100,000       80      3,100,000       80         4,014,610.197       80
11. Migration survey                                       500.000       85        500,000       85             87,400.55       85
12. Unallocated                                            400,000                 400,000                            0.00
Special Account (Part C)                                          0                       0                    -74,190.35
TOTAL                                                   22,200,000             22,200,000                   22,200,000.00
I. Operating expenditures for MSPAS: 85% for withdrawals up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$700,000; 60% for withdrawals up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to US$ 1,200.000; and 30% for withdrawals up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$2,000,000.
2. Architectural and engineering services exceeded costs substantially due to: (i)billing of services by DCGTX for Korhogo Nursing School (ii)
complementary work at Korhogo and (iii) the need to revise contract for works following devaluation of the CFA Franc.
3. Furniture, equipment, vehicles and materials costs were exceeded due to: (i) extension of the project beyond expected closing date and
devaluation of the CFA Franc and (ii) difficulties associated with equipment lists for Korhogo Nursing School.
4. Increased costs for training mainly.
5 and 8. Negative amounts are due to fluctuations of exchange rate from the date the Special Accounts were made available to the date finally
recovered.
6. Purchase of sturdy motorcycles for field work due to difficult terrain.
7. Census of localities required additional resources due to increased number of encampments.



23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate
of return (ERR) and therefore there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for
evaluation purposes.
Furthermore, no parameters were given at appraisal with regard to cost effectiveness.
However, the overall costs of the project appears within reasonable norms for the activities
undertaken.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section Covenant Present  Original 1 Revised                                     Description of covenant                         |                 Comments
type      statut  fulifilment  fulfilment                                                                                                                             l
date          date
3.01 -b      5           P    04/87 to 12/88               The borrower shall assign to each of the Project Area                 Only fulfilled for areas of Bouake
a qualified and experienced regional health management              and Treichville, considering the delays
and training coordinator satisfactory to the Bank.                  for the area of Korhogo
3.0 1-b      4           C     04/87 to 12/88              The Borro er shall provide such coordinator with                     Lihiited funds available
sufficient resources for the carrying out of his or her duties
3.02-a       4          CD        10/11/85                The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open            Account opened on December 12, 1985
and maintain with adequate funds a project account in
the CAA on temis and conditionis satisfactory to the Bank.
3.02-b       4          CP           09/27/85              The Borrower shall deposit into the Project Account for              Project effectiveness condition fulfilled
5.01-a                                                     Parts A and B ofthe Project an initial amount ofCFAF                 on 05/15/86.
75 million, and shall thereafTer pay into such Project              Replenishment sometimes late.
Account at least three months in advance quaterly
contibution for the Project.
3.03         5         CP                                 Procurement of the goods, works and consultants'services             Done with a few exceptions.
required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be govemed by provisions of
Scheduled 4 to this Agreement



3.04         5          CP                                 The Borrower shall adequately staff the Nursing Schools               Done for the Treichville and Bouake schools.
and ensure that the said Schools arc utilized to their full           Hiring of staff started early 1993 for Korhogo.
capacity:                                                             Retirement of staff could jeopardize teaching
1988                - Treichville                                                        capacity.
1989                - Bouake
1991                - Korhogo
3 0O        12         CD    30/06/8X                      The Borrower shall undertake a study of the functions and
long-tern role of its auxiliary health %%orkers                       Study done with some delay in implementation
3.05        12          C      30/6/88                     The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank for comments no                 Discussion now underway on integration and
later than June 30, 1988. a plan for the long-term                   training of auxiliary workers.
utilization of auxiliary health workers.
3.06        9           CP                                 The Borrower shall undertake an evaluation of the                     Evaluation of training programs is being
effectiveness of nurse training and management programs               done by the Comite de Reflexion
of mother and child health care in the Project Areas                  on norms and nursing care.
1/12/87                     - for the health centers in the areas of Treichville
31/12/89                      - for the health centers in the areas of Bouake
3.07-a         12      C                                      The Borrower shall take all necessary action to establish a           Creation of BOG on April 2, 1986. Operational
Management and Organization Bureau withing MOPHP                      in June 1986.
3.07-b         12         CD    30/04/86                      The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank for approval no later           Study done in July 1986. Serious delays in follow-up
April 30, 1986, a plan for the establishment of the basic            work on system details
management informaton system.
10         CD    30/11/86                  =The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank for approval no later              Delays due to a faulty initial design.
Novenmber 30, 1986 a definition of the technical                      Finally done in May 1994.
specifications of computer requirement of the said system.



3.07-c         12         CD    31/12/86                       The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank for its review and               Study was completed late, after redesign and
comments, no later than December 31. 1986. the results of              finanicinig by a new financing source (EU).
the stidy of the Central Pharmacy's procurement practices              Results presented in 1991.
and stock management procedures.
1 2        CD    30/06/87                      The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank for its review and                After initial slow start, several studies donce
commenLs, no later than June 30. 1987. the results of the               between 1988-1994
altemative health cost recovery mechanisms.
12         CD    31/12/87                       [he Borrower shall fumish to the Bank for its review and               Effective since October 10. 1994
comments, no later than Deceniber 31, 1987. the action
plan for the establishment of a health cost recovery system.
3.08        12          CD    3 1/12/86                     Trhe Borrower shall, no later than December 31. 1986, take              Creation of the category of Health
all measures necessarv to include the position of nurse                "Surveillants"A3 since 1988
specialist in health service management in an appropriate
category of the administration list of the health personnel.
3.09-a         10          C     31/1/86                       The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank no later than January            Completed on schedule
31. 1 986. for approval, a master plan of census and survey
activities.
3.09-b         12          C      Juillet 85      AoOt 1985  The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to establish              Main statT for census bureau hired on
within the Directorate of Statistics of its Ministry Economy           08/05/ 1985. Minimum number of staff
and Finance a Census Bureau and shall cause it to be                   have been maintained.
assisted by competent staff in sufficienit number.
3.09-c         10         CD    31/01/86                      The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank a plan. satisfactory              Plan submitted with delay.
to the Bank. to carry out the migration study.                         'Iabulation work for migration stidy underway



3.1         4         CP    from 01/01/91                The Borrower shall provide in its national budgets for fiscal       Delays in disbursement of funds and
year beginning in January 1991 and for any fiscal year              insufficent amounts.
following thereafter amounts sufticient to cover the full cost
of continuing, after the completion of the Project, all the
activities and programs provided for in the Project.
4.0-b ii      I         NC    six mionths                  The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank as soon as available.         Audits generally completed with delays.
after                      but in any case no later than six months after the end of each       Last audits relative to Part C not done
account                    such year. a certified copy of the report of such audit by the      (Years 1992 and 1993)
closing                    said auditors, such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested.
nex 5             I                                      amendement to loan agreements to increase deposit of initial        Amendment to Credit Agreement on 02/24/88
amount from SS 400.0001t $1,600,000 for Part C of project
-4
I = Accounts/audits                      7 = Involuntary Resettlement                                          C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial Performance/revenue        8 = Indigenous people                                                 CD   complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries         9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting                                 CP = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds   10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9          NC   not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                   11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation    C  = covenant complied with
5 = Management aspects of the             12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
project or executing agency          13 = Other
6 = Environmental covenants



28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                   Describe and comment on lack of compliance
I. OD 10.60 accounting, financial reporting and       Serious delays in submission of audit for 1992 and
auditing                                               1993 for Part C of project                           l
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle           Actual
Weeks       US$"
Preparation to
appraisal                       83
Appraisal                     61.1
Negotiations through
Board approval
6.2   _ _ _ _ _
Supervision                    92.8
Completion                     17.2
TOTAL                        26o.3-|
I Includes 40 weeks reported under Lending Development category.
2 The US dollar amounts are not available for projects prior to 1993.
3 No trust fund consultant time charged to this project.



29
Table 13 A: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                 Specialized
Stage of project cycle    month/year     of        Days in    Staff Skills  Imp. Status   Develop.   Types of
Persons      Field    Represented                 Objectives   problems
Through appraisal       11/84         31           343        Footnote I
Appraisal through Board  10/85        5            35         Footnote 2
Board through           2/86          4            28         Footnote 3
Effectiveness
Supervision             86!93         23           161        Footnote 4    See Table
13B
Final                   11/94         4            48         Footnote 5
Supervision/Completion                                .A._.__.                             _
Footnotes
1. PHS, E A D, LO HTS. MS, D
2.  PHS, HTS, D
3.  E, A, LO, PHS.
4.  D, E, LO, A, OA, PHS
5. PHS, A D, PMS.
Key to specialized staff skills
A      Architect
D      Demographer
E      Economist
HTS    Health Training Specialist
LO     Loan Officer
MS    Manpower Specialist
OA     Operations Assistant
PHS    Public Health Specialist
PMS   Project Management Specialist



Table 13B: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfor7ance Rating by Type of Problem
Supervision           Month2Year         Number            Days          Specialized       2           D    L   M    F    P    T        TA      S     E      FP
of            in the         Staff Skills
Persons          Field         Represented
supervision       1  04.1986                 2               13        D,E                       2     1    -   2    1
follos vup           07.1986                 2              28         E,LO D               /
follonvup             08.1986                1               3         D
follos vup            11.1986                1               3         E
supervision      2   01-03.1987              3               14        A,D,E               2/   2      1    -                    2    1
supervision      3   10.1987                 2               18        D,OA                      2     1    -   2   1
supervision      4   04.1988                 2               16         D,A                      2     2    -   2   4
supervision       5   05.1989                1               na        D                   3/   2      2    2   2   4    2    2        2        2    1      3
supervision       6   10.1989                1               8         A                   4/
supervision       7  02.1990                 1               3          D                        2     2    2   2   1    2    1        2        2    1      2
supervision       8   05.1991                1               8          D                        2     3    2   2   1    2    1        2        2    1      2
supervision      9   09.1991                 1               2          D                        2     2    2   2   2    2    1        2        2    1      2
superision  10   02.1992                 1               7         D                         2     2    2   2   2    2    1        2        2    1      2                 o)
supervision     I 1  03.1992                 1               4          D                        2     2    2   2   2    2    1         2       2    1      2
supervision     12   01.1993                 2               18        D,A                       2     2    2   1   2    2    1        2        2    1      2
supervision     13   11.1993                 2               16        D,PHS               2    2      2    2   1   2    2    1        2        2    1      2
completion            10-11.1994             4               48         PHS,A,D,PMS
Specialization:
A=Architect; E=Economist, D=Demographer; LO=Loan Officer, PHS=Public Health Specialist; OA=Operation Assistant; PMS=Project Management Specialist
Type of problem for Performance
O=Overal1 Status; D=Development Impact/objectives; L'=Compliance with Legal Covenants; M=Management; F=Availablity of Funds; P-=Procurement Progress; T=Training Progress; TA=Technical
Assistance Progress; S=Studies Progress; E=Environmental Aspects; FA=Financial Performance.
Performance Rating
l=Problem free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems; 3=major problems with solution underway; 4=major problems without solution underway.
I/Economic mission, partly devoted to follow up of the project
2/Based on different short visits
3/Duration of the mission is not available
4/No Form 590 available



APPENDIXES



COTE D'IYOrRE
PROJET SANTE ET DEMOGRAPHIE
(PRET NO. 2619-IVC)
AIDE-MENOIRE
MISSION FINALE ET PREPARATION DU RAPPORT DACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
DU 24 OCTOBRE AU 4 NOVEMBRE 1994
1.          Une mission de la Banque Mondiale composee de Mme Ethna Johnson,
specialiste en sante publique, chef de mission, et M. Waechter, consultant
architecte, M. Magassouba, consultant, specialiste en gestion des projets et
M. Sow, Conseil Regional en Statistiques Demographiques, FNUAP, a sejourne en
C6te d'Ivoire du 24 octobre au 4 novembre 1994. La mission a re,u l'appui du
Bureau Regional de la Banque mondiale a Abidjan, notamment celui de
M. Robert Calderisi, Chef du Bureau Regional et M. Rachidi Radji, Charge des
operations. La mission a tenu des s6ances de travail avec les responsables du
Ministere de la Sante Publiques et des Affaires Sociales (MSPAS), le Ministere
de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan (MEFP), notamment de l'Institut
National de la Statistique (INS), la Direction et controle des Grands Travaux
(DCGTx) et la Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement. La mission a pu visiter un
certain  nombre  de  formations  sanitaires  ainsi  que  lee  trois  ecoles
d'infirmiers/infirmieres appuy6es par le Pret.
2.          L'objectif de la mission etait:
-    de  passer  en  revue  avec  les  services  concernes  l'etat
d'avancement et les mesures prises pour l'achevement du Projet
Sante et Demographie (Pr6t No. 2619-IVC), et
-    d'evaluer avec les autorites ivoiriennes les r6sultats acquis
dans le cadre des differentes composantes du projet en vue de la
pr6paration du rapport dlach4vement du Projet.
Mise en Vigueur et Cl6ture du Prit
3.          Signe le 27 septembre 1985 le Projet Sante et Demographie a ete
mis en vigueur le 27 mai 1986. La date de Cloture du projet, initialement
fix6e au 30 juin 1992 a ete reportee & deux reprises, une premier fois au 31
decembre 1993, et une deuxieme fois au 30 juin 1994. Une derniere requete du
13 juin 1994 a ete envoyee par la CAA en vue d'un dernier report au 31
decembre 1994 compte tenu de nouveaux retards engendres suite a la devaluation
du F.CFA. La date de Cl6ture du 30 juin 1994 a ete maintenu compte tenu de la
disponibilit6 eventuelle d'autres financement en provenance de la Banque
autorisant l'achevement des activites en cours. Les demandes de remboursement
devaient etre soumises a la Banque avant le 31 octobre 1994.
Objectifs et Composantes du Projet
4.          Le projet comporte les objectifs suivants:  (i) expansion et
amelioration de la formation des infirmiers; (ii) amelioration de la gestion
a tous les niveaux des services de sant6; et (iii) la fourniture
d'informations demographiques fiables pour la planification macro-economique
et sectorielle.



-2-
S.          Le projet comporte lea activit6s suivantes
- Partie A : Valorisation du Personnel de Sante
(i)   r6novation et 6quipement de l'Ecole d'Infirmiers de Treichville
et construction et equipement de deux nouvelles 6coles
d'infirmiers A Bouak6 et Korhogo;
(ii)  attribution de 42 bourses d'etudes permettant la formation des
cadres et des moniteurs en soins infirmiers;
(iii) mise en oeuvre,  suivi et evaluation retrospective du nouveau
programme d'6tude des ecoles dlinfirmiers;
(iv)  fourniture d'equipement d'6ducation et de  formation pour lea
trois 6coles, y compris de materiel didactique et de manuels;
(v)   programme de formation pratique d'dl6ves-infirmiers des Ecoles
d'Infirmiers aux Lieux de Formation sur le Terrain, y compris
l'amenagement d'installations simples d'h6bergement des eleves-
infirmiers et la formation de 70 instructeurs;
(vi)  programme destine A renforcer  laptitude  de la Direction du
personnel du MSPAS A evaluer les programmes de formation et A
estimer les besoins en personnel de Sante.
- Partie B : Renforcement du MSPAS
(i)   creation d'un bureau de gestion  (Bureau d'Organisation et de
Gestion-BOG) au sein du MSPAS;
(ii)  elaboration d'un systeme d'information de base en gestion pour le
MSPAS, y compris la fourniture d'equipement informatique et d'une
assistance pour la collecte et l'analyse des donnees;
(iii) elaboration de programmes destines A ameliorer la gestion,  la
planification  et  le  fonctionnement  de  la  Direction  des
Equipements du Materiel et de la Maintenance du MSPAS et de la
Pharmacie Centrale, y compris une 6tude diagnostique sur les
procedures d'approvisionnement pharmaceutique et de la gestion
des stocks de la Pharmacie Centrale;
(iv)  amelioration de la gestion et des services des CHU et des CHR
par: (a) la formation sur place d'environ 50 infirmiers
specialistes en gestion de services de sante; (b) la formation a
l'etranger en gestion hospitaliere d'environ 14 administrateurs
d'h6pitaux;  (c) l'amelioration des services d'alimentation, des
services comptables, et des pharmacies des CHR et des CHU; et (d)
l'amelioration du contr6le des coats et de la gestion financi&re
des CHU et des CHR et le developpement de mecanismes possibles
pour le recouvrement des couts.
(v)   un programme de renforcement des services de sante de base par:
(a) la formation en cours d'emploi et la supervision du personnel
de sante employ6 dans les Zones du projet; (b) de petits travaux
de renovation et d'equipement des centres de sant6 aux Lieux de
Formation sur le Terrain; et (c) 1'evaluation de l'efficacite des



3-
programmes de gestion et de formation d'infirmiers afin
d'ameliorer les services de soine de sante primaires.
- Partie C: D4veloppement de Donnees sur la Population
(i)   Ex6cution par la Direction de la Statistique du Ministere de
l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan d'un programme de collecte et
d'analyse de donnees demographiques, comportant un recensement
des sites habit6s en 1985-1986, un recensement general de la
population en mars 1987, une enquete post-censitaire, et un
enquete sur lea migrations; et
(ii)  accroissement de la capacite de traitement informatique et de
diffusion des r6sultats de la collecte par des publications
adaptees et l'organisation de seminaires en vue de l'int6gration
des    donn6es    demographiques    dans    la    planification
macro-economiques et sectorielle du pays.
R6alisation des Objectifs et des Activit6s du Projet
Partie A: Valorisation du Personnel de Sante
Ecole de Korhogo (PDN, Pr6t 3128-IVC):
6.          L'ecole a commence a fonctionner avec une premi&re cohorte de 78
eieves venant des ecoles de Treichville et de Bouake en Mars 1994 (ann6e
scolaire 93-94). Pour l'annde scolaire 93-94, seuls ces memes 6leves,
maintenant en 2eme annee sont actuellement accueillis a l'ecole. Le concours
d'entree pour les 6leves integrant l'ecole en 94- 95 devrait se tenir en
Janvier-Fevrier 95. Les conditions de fonctionnement sont rudimentaires les
locaux disponibles etant limites aux internats et a 2 petits foyers utilises
comme salles de cours. Les locaux p6dagogiques, administratifs et la cantine
ne sont pas livr6s. Les materiels pedagogiques ne sont pas disponibles a
l'exception d'une partie des livres installes dans une bibliotheque
provisoire.
7.          Les travaux ont et6 ralentis puis quasiment interrompus pour
differentes raisons (difficult6a de paiement des fonds de contrepartie, d6lais
dans la signature des avenants pour travaux complementaires puis pour
l'actualisation des couts suite a la devaluation de janvier 94, d6lais de
livraison de certains elements de second oeuvre (menuiseries mdtalliques
pr6fabriqu6es) et de certains equipements lies au genie civil (climatisation,
6quipement de cuisine et audiovisuels en particulier). L'achevement complet
des travaux (correspondant a un solde de 360.000.OOOFCFA sur un total de
1.890.000.000FCFA) est dul pour  .e 31 d6cembre 1994. La disponibilit6 des
locaux p6dagogiques, a l'exception des amphithe&tre est escomptee pour le 15
novembre. Pour le reste des locaux, il convient cependant de ne pas exclure
la possibilit6 de legers retards (concernant les services cantine et
r6fectoire), compte tenu des delais de livraison des equipements relatifs a
ces locaux. Ce calendrier devrait autoriser l'accueil de la deuxieme cohorte
d'6l1ves sans probleme majeur vers janvier-fevrier 95.
Probl4mes additionnels rencontres:
Le drainage du site slest av6re tres insuffisant en cas de forte
pluie. Des travaux ont ete engagde en limite exterieure du site en vue de
collecter et d'6vacuer les eaux de ruissellement en provenance du quartier.



Des travaux sont actuellement engages (pour un montant estime a 30.000.000 de
FCFA) par une entreprise contact6e directement par le MSPAS et sans que le
bailleur de fonds ait ete interroge sur le financement de ces travaux.
*     I1 est convenu que le MSPAS devra confirmer par ecrit a la Banque
la disponibilit6 sur le budget de l'Etat des fonds necessaires a l'achevement
de ces travaux. Dana ce cadre, la mission recommande que le Gouvernement
recherche le financement aupres d'autres sources y compris le futur projet
Programme d'Appui a la Conduite d'Op4rations Municipales (PACOM).
*     Les services cuisine/r6fectoire sont localises en un point mal
prot6ge des eaux de ruissellement du site de l'ecole. Ii a 6te convenu
d'entreprendre la realisation de talus de terre (compactes et plantes)
destin6s a d6tourner les eaux de ruissellement. La mission n'a pas d'objection
pour que ces travaux (estimes a 5.000.000 FCFA) fassent l'objet d'un avenant
au marche de lentreprise charg6e des travaux de VRD sur le site de 1'ecole.
La proposition d'avenant devra parvenir a la Banque d'ici au 15 novembre 1994
pour avis de non objection.
*     Deboursement/date de cl6ture: compte tenu de la mise en place du
PACOM, (dont la n6gociation.devrait avoir lieu en decembre et dont les fonds
pourraient etre disponibles vers fevrier 95), aucune extension de la date de
cloture n'est envisagee pour le PDM (achevement du projet pr6vu au 30 juin 94
et cloture du Pret prevue au 31 Decembre 1994 -cf. SAR para 3.07-). La mission
rappelle que I'ensemble des demandes de paiement concernant le Genie civil
relatif a 1'ecole de Korhogo devra parvenir a la Banque avant le 30 avril 1995
et devra concerner des travaux realises avant le 31 decembre 1994.
Ecole de Bouake (PSD, Prit 2619-IVC)
8.          L'ecole est en fonctionnement depuis janvier 1988. L'ecole eat
tres bien geree et presente un aspect agreable (espaces interieurs et
exterieurs bien entretenus). Cette situation masque cependant une realite
beaucoup plus problematique. L'insuffisance des credits de fonctionnement,
apres i'arret du financement des frais de fonctionnement par le projet pendant
les quatres premieres annees de fonctionnement, a entraine la fermeture de la
cantine, ainsi que l'immobilisation du car prevu pour le deplacement des
61eves. Les couts des deplacements et des repas sont donc pris en charge
entierement par les eleves ce qui ne parait pas etre une situation viable A
terme. Par ailleurs, d'importants travaux d'entretien des batiments (peinture,
etancheite du hall d'acces aux amphithe&tres) ne peuvent pas non plus atre
pris en charge par i'icole.
I1 est convenu que MSPAS (DEMM/INFAS) et DCGTx entreprendront une visite
detaillee conjointe des locaux de 1'ecole en vue d'itablir le detail et le
cou3t des interventions necessaires et de preciser la part pouvant etre
consideree comme couverte par la garantie decennale des entreprises et celle
qui devra faire l'objet d'un financement du MSPAS.
Ecole de Treichville (PSD, Prit 2619-IVC):
9.          Les travaux de rehabilitation/extension ont demarre en janvier
1987, la reception definitive des operations s'est achevee en aout 92. L'ecole
a continue de fonctionner pendant des travaux.
10.         Les problemes majeurs dont souffre l'ecole sont 1ies A l'absence
d'un drainage correct du site (terrain plat, nappe phreatique proche,
realisations de b&timents additionnels au fil du temps le temps qui n'ont fait
que de rendre de plus en plus compliquee 1'evacuation des eaux de



-5-
ruissellement). Des travaux de remblaiement sont actuellement entrepris par
INFAS en vue de rehausser le niveau du terrain naturel a l'approche des
constructions. L'6cole souffre par ailleurs d'une maintenance insuffisante,
en particulier pour tout ce qui concerne les canalisations d'6vacuation des
eaux usees dans lee dortoirs. La maintenance est rendue difficile par (a) une
conception mal adapt6e des systames d'4vacuation (entierement masques par des
coffrages, il est impossible de les surveiller) et (b) des fonds insuffisants
de fonctionnement et d'entretien.
11.         Utilisation des locaux: pour des raisons d'environnement,  lee
activites pedagogique et administratives se deroulent en g6neral toutes baies
masqu6es, dans une atmosphere confinee, entigrement en eclairage artificiel,
bien que les locaux offrent des conditions naturelles d'6clairage et de
ventilation convenables. La mission a invite les utilisateurs a une pratique
diff6rente en vue d'am4liorer la salubrite des locaux et de diminuer les coats
en electricit6.
12.         Remarczues aenerales sur les ecoles d'infirmiers: les locaux des
ecoles, definis suivant une programmation architecturale qui a tenu compte de
l'emploi du temps tres particulier de ces ecoles (tous les eleves sont en
stage en meme temps, les travaux pratiques a l'hopital se deroulent toujours
le matin) font que les locaux pedagogiques sont vides une grande partie du
temps et peuvent apparaitre comme surabondants. Une r6flexion fine concernant
le deroulement des activites et lea emplois du temps semble devoir Atre
conduite pour l'avenir en vue d'une meilleure utilisation des investissements
(une augmentation sensible des capacites de formation semble possible, si
necessaire, dans les infrastructures existantes).
13.         De  l'avis  des  utilisateurs,   l'equipement   apparait   comme
relativement bien adapte aux activites des ecoles. Les visites ont montre
cependant que certains appareils semblent peu ou pas utilises (poupinel par
exemple). Par ailleurs, il a et6 constate qu'une partie de l'equipement se
trouvait toujours dans les cartons d'origine et que les utilisateurs n'avaient
qu'une connaissance partielle de lquipement mis a leur disposition. I1
n'existe pas d'inventaire, pas de fiches signaletiques des equipements
(caract6ristique, etat, historique, localisation). Il serait judicieux, apres
plus de 5 annees de fonctionnement concernant 2 des 3 ecoles, qu'un examen
attentif de cette situation soit engage par INFAS/DEMM/BOG en vue de la
disponibilite d'un inventaire precis et d'une 6ventuelle relocalisation des
6quipements pouvant apparaitre comme inutiles ou surabondants aupres d'autres
services du MSPAS. Cette analyse devrait pouvoir aussi concerner les
equipements prevus pour l1'cole de Korhogo apres la deuxieme annee de
fonctionnement.
14.         La mise en oeuvre des op6rations concernant le suivi des etudes
architecturales, la passation des march6s de genie civil et d'equipement et
le controle des travaux a 6te confiee a DCGTx, conformement a l'Accord de
Pret. Les services offerts par DCGTx ont ete tres efficaces concernant la
conduite des operations confiees et tout particulierement en fin de projet,
lorsqu-il s'est agit d'accelerer les deboursements. Ce d6coupage a cependant
engendre des difficultes permanentes concernant la tenue & jour des comptes
du projet et slest solde parfois par des relations difficiles entre MSPAS et
DCGTx, principalement en debut de projet, periode a laquelle les circuits de
communication n'6taient pas bien maitrises.
15.         Les objectifs d'effectifs concernant les etudiants dans les deux
ecoles qui sont enti6rement operationnelles ont ete plus au moins respect6s.
Le nombre de sortants des ecoles de Treichville et de Bouake pour l'ann6e



1994/1995 s'elevent a 165 et 82 our un nombre prevu de 160 et 80
respectivement. Quant a l'ecole de Korhogo la premiere promotion (actuellement
en deuxieme annee) est de 78 eleves infirmiere/sages-femmes et correspond
aussi aux objectifs retenus dans le cadre du projet.
16.         A partir de l'ann6e scolaire 1994/95, la fonction publique ne
garantit  plus  le  recrutement  des  agents  formes  dans  les  ecoles
d'infirmiere/sages-femmes. Le MSPAS devrait desormais definir les modalites
de realisation et de deroulement du concours. Pour cette raison, la mission
a constate que linscription des elves-infirmiers, et des sages-femmes
commence & flechir. Cela va avoir des repercussions sur le rythme de formation
et la disponibiliti des agents de sante sur le terrain.
17.         Le programme de stages pratiques en zone rurale a l'intention des
6leves-infirmiers a partir de la deuxieme annee ainsi que la formation de 70
encadreurs des centres de Sante ont ete acheves pour les deux ecoles en
fonctionnement. Au cours des visites des centres de Sante faisant partie des
zones du stages, la mission a constate que l1iquipement et le materiel des
centres etaient insuffisants et dans certain cas derisoire pour assurer une
formation efficace des 6l1ves. Des propositions emises au cours des r6unions
avec la direction des differentes ecoles et le MSPAS seraient soit
l'approvisionnement en materiel directement aux elIves pour les stages
pratiques soit la selection des centres de santi les plus rapproches des Bases
de Sante Rurales. Le principe de l'apport des stages pratiques en zone rurale
a bien ete retenu comme element central du cursus, neanmoins, les formations
sanitaires pour ces stages ne possedent pas le materiel et l'equipement requis
pour assurer la formation de base necessaire.
18.         Concernant la formation des enseignants moniteurs par lee CESSI
de Dakar et de Yaounde, 38 sur 42 ont ete formes dans le cadre du Projet. Dans
le meme ordre d'idie, les objectifs retenus quant a la formation de cadres
superieurs (les surveillants d'unites de soins) ont ete respectes. Le ratio
moniteurs-6leves est favorable et reste autour de 1:20.
19.         Le fonctionnement de ces trois ecoles a ete pris en charge au
titre du budget de l'INFAS a partir de Juillet 1992. Cependant le montant
alloue (84 million F.CFA pour l1annde 1994) pour les frais recurrent des
icoles reste inferieur aux besains reels, ce qui entrave le bon fonctionnement
des ecoles. En consequence, le manque de ressources remet en cause la
perennite du systeme de formation de base. La mission suggere que le MSPAS et
INFAS poursuivent l'objectif de donner aux trois ecoles leur propre budget a
partir de 1995.
20.         Le travail entame pour 1'6laboration des normes relative a la
qualite des soins infirmiers et obstetricaux ne figurait pas parmis lee
objectifs originaux du projet. Cependant, ils devraient servir de base pour
les diffirents modules de formation permanente et la rivision des programmes
de formation de base, ainsi que pour le systeme de prestation des services.
Bien qu'il a ete constate un retard important,  la mission suggere que le
travail du Comite national de reflexion sur l'enseignement, la pratique et la
gestion des soins infirmiers et obstetricaux se poursuive rapidement apres
avoir teste et valide les guides et protacoles de soins dans les centres
pilotes.
21.         Faisant suite a la criation de l'Institut National de Formation
des Agents de Sante (INFAS) en 1991, la responsabilit6 pour l1ivaluation et
le suivi des programmes de formation de base a ete confiie a cet organisme.
Les trois ecoles utilisent le meme cursus qui fait l'objet de rivision legere



-7-
p6riodique. La mission suggere qu'une analyse des stages pratiques soit
entreprise le plut6t que possible et que le travail cit6 plus haut serve comme
de point de depart pour les r6visions du cursus dans le futur.
22.         D'une fagon generale, les objectifs retenus par le projet relatifs
a la valorisation des ressources humaines ont 6te atteints, et parfois
d6passees. Cependant, la mission attire l'attention du Gouvernement sur la
n6cessit4 de preparer un plan operationnel (paragraphe 68), pour assurer la
perennite du systeme de formation de base.
Partie B: Renforcement du MSPAS
(i)   Systes d'Information et de Gestion (SIG)
23.         La pr6paration d'un plan pour le Developpement du SIG 6tait
confiee au BOG et sa realisation a 6te confide a la Direction de l'Information
et de la Programmation Socio-sanitaires (DIPS). Lobjectif etait la mise en
place d'un systeme de collecte et de traitement des donnees afin d'assurer la
disponibilite des informations n6cessaires i la planification des activites
de sante pour tout le pays. Ceci comportait des donnees sur les activites des
formations sanitaires, la gestion des ressources financiires, humaines et
mat6rielles ainsi que des donnees 6pidemiologiques. Ces dernieres devraient
atre collectdes en 6troite collaboration avec l'Institut National de Sante
Publique.
24.         Cette composante du projet a accuse un retard consid6rable et les
dates retenues pour l1elaboration du plan pour le developpement du systeme
ainsi que les specifications techniques en informatique dans l'accord de
credit n'ont pas et6 respectees. La premiere phase du SIG a demarre en 1991.
Ce n'est qu'en 1993 que le Comit6 Technique de mise en oeuvre du SIG a 6te
cree.
25.         La mise en oeuvre du systeme repose sur un ensemble de modules a
realiser de fagon progressive qui sont
-     Module 1 :
Activites de base
Surveillance epidemiologique
Activites specifiques BSR, CS, SSSU
-     Module 2 :
Activites des plateaux techniques
Hospital isat ion
Gestion   des   ressources   (humaines,   mat6rielles   et
financi6res)
-     Module 3 :
Activites specifiques CHU/CHR
26.         Concernant le Module 1, la d6finition des indicateurs, le choix
des donnees a collecter,  la conception et la confection des supports, la
formation des formateurs et des agents des dtablissements retenus sont
acheves. Les tests sont en cours et les sedminaires d'dvaluation sont pr5vus
pour les 2 et 3 decembre 1994.
27.         Les travaux de conception et dldlaboration de support de collecte
pour le module 2 sont entames, les tests etant pr6vus pour le mois de decembre
1994. Compte tenu de la cloture du projet, le MSPAS recherche le financement



pour l'achevement de ce travail y compris la fourniture des 4quipements
compl6mentaires pour le bon fonctionnement du systime grAce a un financement
canadion. La Banque serait disposee a aider le MSPAS a faire une evaluation
approfondie des activites et de la m6thodologie en vue d'assurer la mise en
place d'un SIG efficace a terme. Cet appui pourrait etre pris en charge dans
le cadre du Projet d'Appui a la Gestion des RessourceS Humaines (PAGRH)
finance par la Banque Mondiale. Quant a la supervision, la Coop6ration
Frangaise a affect6 un assistance technique epidemiologiste pour 3 ans et
envisage un appui logistique.
Appui & la Gestion du Systeme
28.         L'absence de coh6rence entre certaines operations a compromis la
realisation des objectifs globaux definis dans le projet. Certaines activit6s
ont et6 menees a bien telle que la formation des Directeurs des H6pitaux, des
infirmiers specialistes en gestion et des techniciens de maintenance
biom4dicale. La creation d'un Corps d'infirmiers sp6cialistes a ete effective
conformement a la clause 3.08 de l'Accord de Pret.
Niveau Central
29.         Appui a la maintenance: Lee bourses destinees a la formation
compl6mentaire des personnels de maintenance ont 6te mise en oeuvre.
L'assistance technique pr6vue pour la DEMM a permis de r6aliser une 6tude sur
lea problemes de maintenance des equipements. Bien que l'appui apporte par le
projet A la DEMM puisse etre considere comme relativement faible, les moyons
dont dispose cette Direction sont maintenant importants du fait du concours
de divers bailleurs (BAD, KFW, FED, FAC, Japon). Des unit6s d6centralis6es de
maintenance sont en voie d'installation au niveau des regions, une opdration
d'envergure relative a l'inventaire des infrastructures sanitaires et des
6quipements eat en preparation.
30.          Pharmacie de Sant6 Publique: L'appui destine A la Pharmacie de la
Sant6 Publique a ete limite compte tenu, d'une part, des difficult6s
rencontrees par la Pharmacie, et, d'autre part, de la prise en charge par la
CEE des activites de fonctionnement de la Pharmacie pour un montant de 10
milliards F.CFA.
31.         L'6tude et la conception d'un systeme de recouvrement des couts
pour lequel le BOG a jou6 un r6le central, a abouti d'une fa,on progressive
A la mise en place tout rdcente d'un systeme de recouvrement des couts dans
les formations sanitaires.
Niveau Hospitalier
32.         Concernant i'appui aux hopitaux, l'amelioration des services
d'alimentation   des deux CHU par la r6novation et l'equipement de deux
cuisines a ete fait aussi bien que la mise en place d'une imprimerie pour
l'impression des outils de gestion. Cependant, l'appui destine aux services
comptables n'a pas ete maintenu. Par contre, le Projet Sante et Demographie
a finance des seminaires a destination des prescripteurs.
Niveau de Base
33.         La plupart des activit6s relatives au niveau de base ont concernd
la formation de personnel dans les 70 centres de Sante des Lieux de Formation
sur le Terrain, aussi bien que les m6decins des districts, par l'organisation



-9-
do *eminaires et de stages de courtes durees. Ceci en vue du renforcement du
*ystAme de supervision et de prestation des services.
34.         Centres de sante/h6bergement des stagiaires. Les r6alisations
visit6es sont en g6neral de qualit6 acceptable. Les problemes suivants se
posent cependant:
Surcouts initiaux engendres par des rdalisations pas toujours en
relations avec l'environnement (equipement des bAtiments d'hebergement avec
des installations 6lectriques et sanitaires mais absence le plus souvent de
r6seaux d'eau ou d'6lectricit6). Les installations sont le plus souvent
d6grad6es avant m6me d'avoir pu etre utilis6es.
entretien  des  b&timents  et  des  espaces  extdrieurs  quasi
inexistant: branches d'arbre touchant ou surplombant les toitures, debut de
degradation des toitures (arrachage des bardages par le vent).
35.         La mission recommande que le MSPAS (INFAS, DEMH, Bureau du Projet)
entreprenne une tournee syst6matique de toutes lea installations d'hebergement
des CS en vue de pr6ciser & nouveau les responsabilites des beneficiaires
concernant l'entretien et de preciser les recommandations dans chaque cas.
36.          Le taux d'utilisation tres faible des infrastructures (environ 2
mois par an pour les localisations od les stages ont commence) et les charges
fixes incontournables de maintenance des bAtiments incitent a penser qu'une
solution d'h6bergement s'appuyant directement sur les communautes eut et6
pr6f6rable.
37.        Concernant le petit equipement destine aux stages sur le terrain,
seul semblent subsister le mobilier d'h6bergement. II apparait qu'il eut et6
sans doute plus judicieux d'affecter le petit equipement necessaire aux ecoles
plut6t qu'au CS d'accueil des stagiaires.
Partia C. D&veloppement des Donnees sur la Population
38.         Ce qui suit concerne essentiellement la composante demographique
relative au recensement general de la population et de l'habitat, a l'enquete
post-censitaire et & l'enquete migrations et urbanisation.
1.- Recensement de la Population et de l'Habitat.
39.         Cette composante inclut le Recensement des Sites Habites,  le
Recensement General de la Population et de l'Habitat et l'Enqu&te Post-
censitaire. La mission apres examen des documents mis a sa disposition et
discussions avec les cadres du Secr6tariat General du Recensement et de
certains utilisateurs souligne que les objectifs assignes A l'op6ration ont
6t6 globalement atteints. Les indicateurs demographiques et socio- economiques
sont rendus disponibles A travers plusieurs series de publications . Plusieurs
rapports d'analyse sont publies selon plusieurs    themes    structure et
mouvement naturel de la population, repartition spatiale et migration,
caracteristiques socio- culturelles et 6conomiques, caract6ristiques des
m6nages et de l'habitat. Une importante source de donnees est disponible pour
l'analyse & travers de plus de 600 tableaux. Les r6sultats du Recensement des
Sites Habites combines avec les resultats du denombrement constituent une base
de sondage complete et assez recente pour les enquetes post-censitaires et ont
conduit a lAlaboration d'un fichier national de villages. Les effectifs de
la population par circonscription administrative   villages, villes, sous-
prefectures, prefectures communeB et regions sont egalement disponibles. Les
migrations internes et internationales sommairement saisies lora du



- 10 -
recensement  seront  mieux  apprehendees  lors  de  l'EnquAte  Migration
Urbanisation.
40.         Bien que le projet ait atteint ses objectifs, il faut souligner
que le d6veloppement des activites a enregistre beaucoup de difficult6s qui
ont et6 surmontees grace A la collaboration des diff6rents participants au
projet : cadres nationaux, bailleurs de fonds (Banque Mondiale et FNUAP),
assistance technique ext6rieure  (c E A, BUCENS...).  Ces difficultea ont
conduit a plusieurs reports de la date du denombrement a savoir de Mars 1987
a Novembre 1987 puis Mars 1988. Ces reports sont dus au retard dans la
lib6ration des fonds, les proc6dures administratives et les performances des
6quipes de terrain lors des travaux des cartographies.
41.         Les difficultes rencontrees par les travaux de cartographie sont
de divers ordres : acquisition tardive des 6quipements cartographiques et des
moyens de transport, mauvais fonctionnement des mobylettes mises a la
disposition des agents, decouverte de nombreux campements, reticence des chefs
de campements due a une sensibilisation insuffisante. Les travaux de terrain
ont ete acheves avec 4 mois de retard. Ils ont permis la confection de
plusieurs documents et informations cartographiques : fichier de localit6s,
repertoire des localites, code g6ographique nationale des localites, 10.332
districts de recensement, 5 862 croquis de villages, 184 cartes de sous-
prefectures, 50 cartes de departement, 168 plans de ville etc... II reste
cependant   a   informatiser   l'ensemble   de   toutes   ces   informations
cartographiques, mais la Division de cartographique ne dispose pas
d 'quipements informatiques appropries.
42.         La  sensibilisation  a  6te  un  maillon  faible  des  activit6s
pr6paratoires du recensement. Elle a d&marre tardivement, et n'a pas suivi
int6gralement la strategie qui avait ete envisagee. Cette insuffisance de la
sensibilisation s'est fait ressentir lors des travaux de cartographie et du
d6nombrement occasionnant des retards dans 1'execution des activites. Une
campagne de sensibilisation ne doit pas slarreter au niveau des autorites
locales ; elle doit etre programmne et executee jusqu'au niveau des
populations.
43.         Le denombrement de  la population a ete caracterise par une
formation en cascades des agents. Initialement prevu pour 15 jours, il a ete
prolonge A 1 mois pour tenir compte de l'adjonction de la fiche de 14 ans et
plus pour servir a l'tablissement des listes 6lectorales. La collecte a
d6marre (ler au 31 Mars 1988) avec quelque retard dans certains districts de
recensement suite A des difficultes d'acheminement du materiel. Malgre la
structure mise en place, le denombrement a connu quelques problemes :
deplacement des agents vers certaines zones d6ficitaires, d6coupage
cartographique, decouverte de campements omis lors de la cartographie,
sensibilisation insuffisante,  problemes de guides et d'interpretes...  Le
recensement a ete cependant une reussite grAce a l'engagement total du
gouvernement, au courage et la t6nacite des cadres nationaux malgr6 leurs
problemes d'int6gration A la fonction publique, et A l'assistance ext6rieure
par des missions ponctuelles.
44.         L'Enquete  de  couverture  dont  lobjectif  est  de  verifier
l'exhaustivite et la qualite du RGPH, de mesurer lea omissions et les doubles
comptes a ete rdalisee du 24 Avril du 8 Mai 1988 dans 60 DR tir6s au hasard
dans 5 strates. Menee par 60 enqueteurs et 13 contr6leurs, elle a connu
quelques difficultds : absences de certains menages, dem6nagement de menages,
sensibilisation insuffisante. L'exploitation a ete faite ; malheureusement les



- 11 -
responsables n'ont pas juge opportun de faire la publication des r4sultats
obtenues.
45.         La mission pense que quels que soient les resultats, il faudrait
donner lee raisons de la non publication, exploiter a fond les donn6es et
analyser toutes lee difficult6s rencontrees pour une am6lioration des
operations futures.
46.         L'exploitation des donnees a connu un retard considerable par
manque de fonds da a la depreciation du dollar. Apres l'archivage qui a connu
lui-meme quelques difficultes (am6nagement tardif des locaux, transfert des
dossiers d'un site a un autre), lea travaux de codification n'ont commence
qu'en janvier 1989 au lieu de Juin 1988 soit 8 mois de retard. Ils ont dur6
7 mois au lieu de 12 comme prevu avec un renforcement de l'6quipe de
codification. Ce renforcement n16tant pas necessaire dans la mesure ou la
saisie n'a d6marre qu'en Juin 1988 soit 6 mois apres la fin de la
codification. Elle a duree 10 mois au lieu de 12 grAce surtout A un taux de
ressaisie de 50 % au lieu du 100 % initial. Le traitement a connu des
difficultes liees aux pannes de l'ordinateur central de la Direction de la
Statistique et A la saturation du centre de 1OCM par les travaux relatifs aux
elections de 1990.
47.         La mission pense que le choix des gros systemes au profit des
micro-ordinateurs pour l'exploitation des donnees n16tait pas assez heureux.
Des micros performants existent actuellement; ils rendraient le bureau du
recensement plus performant, plus autonome et le renforcement en 6quipements
informatiques pour les op6rations futures serait mieux assure.
48.         Les plans d'analyse  et  de  tabulation  ont  retenu  5 themes
d'analyse, 602 tableaux regroup6s en 52 types. Le plan de tabulation donne le
niveau geographique retenu pour chaque tableau.
49.         Les resultats  ont ete publies  selon 4 volumes  : volume 0
r4pertoire des localites, volume I resultats bruts, volume 2 : Tableaux et
graphiques, volume 3 : Analyse en 5 tomes.
50.         I1 reste A faire des analyses approfondies tant au niveau national
que r6gional; a rediger le rapport methodologique et administratif, des
monographies. L'elaboration des perspectives est encore a achever. Il faudrait
informatiser les donnees cartographiques, etablir un atlas, et envisager une
mise a jour reguliere des travaux de cartographie. Un sdminaire national de
pr6sentation des resultats du RGPH a 6te organise du 18 au 21 Novembre 1991.
Mais la dissemination des resultats du recensement A p6ch6 par la non
publication officielle des resultats provisoires du recensement malgre lee
nombreux besoins exprimes.
51.         Pendant les differentes phases du projet, plusieurs types de
formations ont ete organis6es: formation des agents d'execution, ateliers et
seminaires pour les cadres du recensement,  et stage de courte dur6e a
l'exterieur. Ces formations, appuyees par des missions d'assistance ponctuelle
ont renforce la capacite d'ex&cution du Bureau de Recensement. Il serait
souhaitable que les cadres de la Division de cartographie beneficient d'une
formation  sur  l'exploitation  informatique  des  donn6es  et  informations
cartographiques et qu'une attention particuliere soit accordee a la formation
des cadres dans le domaine de l'organisation, de l1ex6cution et de
l'exploitation en matiere d'Enquete Post-censitaire de couverture.



- 12 -
52.         Les rdsultats du recensement ont ete  largement utilis6s par
plusieurs departements notamment l'Interieur pour ce qui est du r6pertoire et
du fichier des localit6s et des resultats statistiques par circonscriptions
administratives, par le Ministere de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan.
53.         La Direction des Controles et des Grands Travaux (DCGTx) s'est
basee sur des rdsultats de la cartographie et du d6nombrement pour des etudes
de projection, de connaissance du milieu, pour etablir des cartes a partir des
fonds de cartes de la cartographie, etablir le sch&ma directeur d'Abidjan,
pour le montage d'un systeme d'Information geographique urbain et national
etc. L'INS doit etablir des contrats avec la DCGTx pour une harmonisation des
concepts et pour un echange de donnees et d'experiences.
2.- Enquete Migration et Urbanisation.
54.         Programm6e dans le cadre du RGPH 1988,  l'enquete devait etre
ex6cutee en 1989. Mais sa combinaison (jonction) avec le reseau sur les
Migrations en Afrique de l'Ouest a considerablement retarde ce projet jusqu'en
1993. Apres une enquete pilote qui a donne lieu a un rapport de collecte et
d'analyse, la collecte des donndes de llenquite a d6marre fin Juin 1993 pour
une periode de 3 mois.
55.         Les travaux de codification ont 6te effectu6s par 14 agents d'AoQt
1993 a Janvier 1994. Mais par manque de materiel la saisie n'a pu d,marr6
qu'en Janvier 1994 soit a la fin de la codification alors que ces deux
op6rations devaient etre menees parallelement pour permettre d'eviter des
erreurs depuis la codification.
56.         Les cadres de 1'enquete ont suivi des ateliers de formation sur
le logiciel ISSA pour la codification et les logiciel SATA pour l'analyse des
donnees.
57.         Le  projet  est  actuellement  a  sa  phase  d'apurement  et  de
tabulation. Les activites restantes comprennent l'analyse des donnees prevue
par un seminaire en Fevrier 1995 qui sera suivi d'un saminaire de diffusion.
58.         Le projet connait quelques problemes: problemes de gestion et de
capacite de la memoire vive des micro-ordinateurs. De plus, le projet PDM doit
prendre fin en Decembre 1994 et le financement des activites restantes
constitue une des preoccupations des responsables du projet.
59.         La mission considere que le recensement a ete une reussite malgr6
les retards accuses et les difficultes rencontrees. L'INS a et6 renforce dans
sa capacite d'organiser et d'executer les op6rations de collecte et d'analyse
de donnees d6mographiques. Cependant pour les operations futures les
organisateurs devront jouir d'une large autonomie dans l'ex6cution des
activites et dans la gestion des fonds. Les fonds necessaires aux operations
doivent etre assures avant llengagement des activit6s afin d'eviter les
ruptures comme celles constatees apres le denombrement. I1 faudrait egalement
6viter la dispersion des sites abritant lea differentes activit6s du
recensement. La perennit6 de l'expdrience acquise doit etre assur6e par le
maintien au Bureau du Recensement d'un noyau de cadres capable d'assurer le
suivi des travaux intercensitaires et de mener les analyses approfondies
envisagdes.



- 13 -
Gestion du Projet
60.         La gestion du projet a 6te realisee par les organismes suivants:
le Bureau du Projet du Ministere de la Sante Publique et Affaires Sociales,
la Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux, la Direction des Investissements
Publics et de la Caisse Autonome d'AAmortissement et l'Institut National de
Statistique du Ministere de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan. Cette
multiplicit6 d'organismes intervenant dans la realisation du projet a pose
d'6normes problemes de coordination, d'execution, d'6valuation et de suivi
dans la gestion
Personnel
61.         Les organismes d'ex6cution du projet n'ont jamais dispose de
l'ensemble du personnel requis pour la realisation des tAches qui leur
incombent. Ainsi l'Administrateur du   bureau du projet a travaille seul
pendant quatre ans. Le BOG n'a pas obtenu toute l'assistance technique
escompt6e.
Gestion comptable et financiere
62.         Le projet a manqu6 d'un appui initial concernant la mise en place
d'un systeme adequat et complet de comptabilite si bien qu'a l'arrivee de la
mission, soit 4 mois apres la cloture du projet, aucune situation actualis6e
et fiable n'4tait disponible concernant chacun des 2 grands volets du projet.
Du fait de la gestion separee des volets Sante et Population, aucune
consolidation des depenses n'etait non plus disponible. Seule la comptabilite
relative au volet Sant6 a et6 informatis6e, a partir de 1990. Cette
informatisation n'a pas prevu cependant une  presentation des comptes par
composante pour laquelle il demeure necessaire d'operer un important
traitement manuel.
Comptes du projet
63.         Le compte sp6cial et des fonds de contrepartie du projet ont connu
des periodes de rupture de fonds. Cette situation est due non seulement & la
lourdeur des procedures de reapprovisionnement, mais aussi au fait que les
institutions responsables de cette t&che s'y prenaient avec beaucoup de
retard. On constate en moyenne environ deux mois par an de manque de liquidite
dans l'un ou l'autre des comptes, parfois dans les deux a la fois.
Audit
64.         Tous les rapports d'audit du volet sante du projet ont 6t6 fournis
avec quelquefois des retards tres importants. Par contre, les deux derniers
audits du volet demographie n'ont pas ete realises  et ceux des annees
anterieures n'etaient pas accompagnes des commentaires du Gouvernement. Durant
la mission, l'INS a donnd l'assurance que les pre-rapports d'audit des
exercices 1992 et 1993 du volet demographie seraient disponibles avant le 15
Decembre 1994.
Recommandations
65.         Pour am6liorer la gestion et l'efficacite de futur projet, il
serait souhaitable que les autorites ivoriennes prennent des mesures adequates
pour assurer une meilleure communication entre les differents organismes
intervenants,  la disponibilite du personnel adequat,  la programmation et
l'evaluation frequente des activites a travers un atelier de lancement du



- 14 -
projet, des atellers annuels de progra Gation ainsi qu'uns 6valuation & ml-
parcours, la miss en place des proc6dures de passatLon de march6s beaucoup
plus simples et la disponibillt6 & temps des rapports d'audit.
PFin--cement du Projet
66.         Lo  projet  a  connu  certaines  difflcult6s  do  financement
principalement li6es a une 6volution d6favorable des taux de change entre le
F.CFA et le dollar. L'achavement des Partles A et C du projet (6col-
d'linfirmiers de Korhogo et Enquete sur lea migrations) a n6cessite la mise en
place d'un financement complementaire de la Banque Mondiale dans le cadre du
Projet de Developpement Municipal (Pret 3128-IVC).
67.         Le projet a beneficie des co-financements initialement pr6vus de
la part du FNUAP et de lUSAID (partie C du Projet) et du soutien du FAC
(Partie B du projet) sous la forme d'assistance technique et de bourses de
formation.
Rapport d'6valuation du projet du Gouvernement
68.          Comme indiqu6 dans la lettre du 28 septembre 1994, adress6e au
MSPAS et MEFP, la mission demande quo le rapport d'6valuation du projet du
Gouvernement soit envoye a la Banque dans un d6lais de deux semaines. La
mission a donne aux autorit6s un sch6ma du rapport A titre indicatif et la
mission a souligne la n6cessite de joindre A ce rapport un plan op6rationnMl
pour la poursuite des activites du projet. Ca plan devrait comporter les d6ci-
siona prises et lea mesures envisagees pour assurer la p6rennit6 des
differentes activit6s financ6es dans le projet, entre autres, la disponibilit6
des fonds de fonctionnement des diff6rentes activitea du projet, les d6cisions
prises pour lVentretien des batiments, le suivi du SIG, la diffusion des
resultats du volet demographique etc.
69.          Lee conclusions, recommandation et suggestions de cet Aide-MHmoire
feront l'objet d'une confirmation officielle dea le retour de cotte mission
a Washington.
Abidjan, le 4 novembre 1994
St,_~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ rr             1                o
Ethna Johnson                                Ouattara Mahiri Edouard
Chef de Mission                              Directeur de Cabinet, MSPAS
Coordonnateur du Projet



;     -^____                         AT%A23 / C
MINISTLRE DE LA SANTE          I       REU   LE           REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
ET DE LA PROTECTION SOCIALE                                     Union - Discipline - Travail
20 fE C. 10,9 k
PROJET
DE DEVELOPPEMENT SANITAIRE
PROJET SANTE - B.I.R.D.         SERVICE  COURRIER
t  -mj^ le   G__<1y
146
NO              /MSPAS/CAB/DAF/BOG
A   Monsieur le Chef de la
Mission Regionale de la
Objet    Rapport d'achevement du                        Banque Mondiale en Afrique
Projet Sante et Demographie                   de l'Ouest
pret 26 19 IVC du
27 Septembre 1985.
A B I D J A N
A   l'Attention de Madame ETHNA
JOHNSON Specialiste en Sante
Publique Banque Mondiale
WASHINGTON  D.C
J a i 1h on n e ur d e v ou s f a ire pa r ve n ir Ile r a p port
d'ach6vement du Projet sus-indiqud, 6tabli par 1tEmprunteur
et ceci en compl6ment de 1'6valuation effectu6e par la
Mission de la Banque Mondiale conduite par Madame ETHNA
JOHNSON du 24 Octobre au 5 N.ovembre 1994.
Je vous prie de craire en 1'assurance de mes sentiment
respectueux.
L'Administrateur du Projet
.~~~~~~~~~~1 . _.
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
VmAdrinistrateu,
JOHNSON du  4 Octobre du PToebr   94
~ CISSE LASSINE
Je~~~~~~ma vos  re  e  riree   ' suaned  mssntmn



MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE         REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
ET DES AFFAIRES SOCIALES              Union-Discipline-Travail
LE CABINET
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
SANTE ET DEMOGRAPHIE
PRET 2619 IVC DU 27 DECEMBRE 1985
REFERENCE : Lettre Banque Mondiale n02325/04 du 28 septembre
1994, signee par M. OK PANNENBORG.
Le present rapport effectue en novembre 1994
constitue l'annexe/A du rapport d'achevement,  soit la deuxieme
partie etablie par l'emprunteur en complement de lVevaluation
effectuee par la mission de la Banque Mondiale conduite par Mme ETHNA
JOHNSON qui a sejourne en COTE d'IVOIRE du 24 octobre au 5 novembre
1994.
PLAN DU RAPPORT
I - INTRODUCTION.
II - OBJECTIFS DU PROJET.
III - EVALUATION CRITIQUE DES MODALITES D'EXECUTION.
IV - APPRECIATION DES RESULTATS.
V - PROPOSITIONS POUR L'AVENIR.
I/ INTRODUCTION :
Le Projet Sante-demographie  (Pret 2619 IVC) dont
l'accord de pret a ete signe le 27 septembre 1985 est le premier
projet de financement de la Banque Mondiale dans le secteur sanitaire
en COTE D'IVOIRE. Et comme son nom l'indique, le projet comporte
egalement une composante demographie.
Initialement prevue pour le 30 juin 1992, la date de
cl6ture a ete reportee a deux reprises, d'abord au 31 decembre 1993
puis au 30 juin 1994, en raison essentiellement des difficultes
creees par la fluctuation du cours du dollar US.
Cette situation a perturbe le financement de l'Ecole
des Infirmiers de KORHOGO dont la partie Genie Civil a dui etre assurde
par le Projet de Developpement Municipal (Pret 3128 IVC).



2-
Le montant total de la composante sante (parties A et B
du Projet) soit 17,5 millions de dollars US au titre de Pret et 23
millions de dollars US en tenant compte de la contre-partie
ivoirienne a ete consomme a hauteur de 8,5 milliards de FCFA.
Quant a la composante demographie (partie C) son couit
global se chiffre a 3,268 milliards de FCFA reparti comme suit
- un pret de la Banque Mondiale d'un montant de 4,2 millions
de dollars US, soit l1'quivalent de 2,082 milliards de F
CFA, au moment de la signature de l'accord du pret. Mais, a
la suite de la baisse du cours du dollar US, ce chiffre
s'est traduit par un montant effectif de 1,176 milliard de
F CFA en mars 1988
Cette perte de financement a ete compensee par un
nouveau pret de 3 millions de dollars US, sur le Projet Developpement
Municipal (PDM qui est entre en vigueur a partir de mars 1990).
- une inscription de 262 millions de F CFA au Budget General
de Fonctionnement (BGF) et de 589 millions de F CFA au
Budget Special d'Investissement et d'Equipement (BSIE),
soit un montant global de 851 millions de F CFA, au titre
de la contre-partie ivoirienne ;
- une subvention du Fonds des Nations-Unies pour la
population (FNUAP) d'un montant initial de 500.000 dollars
US porte a 828.000 de dollars par des apports successifs,
soit l'equivalent de 335 millions de F CFA, en fin 1990.
Le Projet a egalement beneficie d'une contribution en
nature de l'US-AID d'une valeur de 250.000 dollars US repartie sur
plusieurs annees et consacree & la formation et a l'assistance
destinees au personnel d'encadrement d'une part, et a la fourniture
d'equipements cartographiques et informatiques d'autre part.
II/ OBJECTIFS DU PROJET :
2:1 - Volet Sante (parties A & B)
Dans son volet sante, le Projet avait deux (2)
objectifs principaux :
- la valorisation du personnel de sante, plus particulierement
le personnel infirmier ;
- l'amelioration des capacites de gestion du Ministere de la
Sante.



-3-
A - VALORISATION DU PERSONNEL DE SANTE
Partant du constat effectue en 1984-1985 qui fait
apparaitre :
- l'insuffisance quantitative du personnel infirmier (2.500 en
1985) ;
- l'inadaptation de la formation aux besoins plus
particulierement des centres de sante de base
- la penurie en cadres infirmiers et en personnel d'execution du
type aide-soignant ;
Le Projet a eu pour objectifs
- l'augmentation de la capacite de formation par la creation de
deux (2) nouvelles ecoles d'infirmiers a BOUAKE et KORHOGO et
la rehabilitation et l'extention de l'ecole de TREICHVILLE de
facon a garantir une production annuelle de l'ordre de 320
infirmiers pour les trois (3) ecoles ;
l'amelioration du contenu des programmes et des methodes
pedagogiques avec l'introduction de stage en zone rurale ;
= la formation de quarante-deux (42) moniteurs supplementaires
pour les trois (3) ecoles d'infirmiers et la mise en place
d'une formation nationale de surveillants d'unites de soins
- la reconnaissance de la fonction d'aide-soignant et la mise en
place d'une formation specifique de ce personnel auxiliaire
- la mise en place d'une planification des effectifs et d'un
programme de formation a long terme ;
- en cours de Projet, un objectif supplementaire a ete retenu, &
.savoir la definition des normes de soins par niveau de
structure sanitaire et par specialite en integrant
systematiquement la pratique des soins de sante primaire
(SSP).
B - AMELIORATION DE LA CAPACITE DE GESTION
DU MINISTERE DE LA SANTE :
La situation en 1985 etait caracterisee par l'absence
totale de cadres administratifs et techniques, ce qui a conduit a
privilegier dans le Projet la formation de vingt-six (26)
administrateurs des services de sante, de quatorze (14) ingenieurs
biomedicaux et techniciens de maintenance et le perfectionnement de
huit (8) directeurs regionaux de la sante.



-4-
Le Projet prevoyait egalement la mise en place d'un
Bureau d'Organisation de Gestion (BOG) pour ameliorer le
fonctionnement de l'administration centrale, la gestion des
formations sanitaires (y compris les CHU et les CHR) et preparer la
mise en place d'un systeme de recouvrement des couts, etc.
Des actions specifiques etaient enfin prevues en vue
de la mise en place d'un Systeme d'Information pour la Gestion
(S.I.G.), de l'amelioration de la maintenance des equipements et de
l'approvisionnement en produits pharmaceutiques, etc.
2.2 - Volet Demographie (partie C) :
Deux (2) principaux objectifs ont ete assignes a ce
volet :
- la realisation d'un recensement general de la population et de
l'habitat (R.G.P.H. 88) ;
- l'enquete migration et urbanisation.
Ces operations de collecte devaient, entre autres,
permettre d'elaborer des indicateurs demographiques et socio-
economiques d'une part, et de constituer une source importante de
donnees pour l'analyse et la recherche sur l'evolution et les
structures de la population ainsi que pour les sondages pour les
enquetes post-censitaires d'autres part.
En plus de ces deux principaux objectifs, le volet
demographie du Projet comportait d'autres composantes
- le recensement des sites habites,
- le denombrement,
- les activites post-denombrement.
III / EVALUATION CRITIQUE DES MODALITES D'EXECUTION
Cette evaluation critique portera d'une part sur le
contenu du Projet et d'autre part sur ses modalites d'execution.
A - CONTENU DU PROJET :
L'historique  de  l'elaboration  du  Projet  fait
comprendre les difficultes rencontrees surtout pour la mise en
oeuvre de la partie B du volet sante.
En effet, cette partie non prevue a l'origine a ete
rajoutee en fin de discussion, au Projet initial qui portait sur la
formation des infirmiers essentiellement.
C'est pourquoi, la formation des objectifs est
quelquefois confuse avec un catalogue d'operations pas toujours
coordonnees entre elles et des moyens financiers pas toujours
adaptes aux besoins reels ; le S.I.G. aurait pu par exemple justifier
a lui tout seul une composante specifique.



-5-
B - PROCEDURES D'EXECUTION
Les  difficultes  liees  a  l'execution  du  Projet
tiennent aux causes suivantes :
- lourdeur des procedures de decaissement surtout au niveau de la
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) ;
- difficultes de paiement des contre-parties ivoiriennes dues au
manque frequent de liquidite ;
- approvisionnement irregulier du compte special
- lourdeur et lenteur des procedures administratives de
signature des marches publics ;
- delais souvent importants pour obtenir les avis de non-
objection de la Banque Mondiale ;
- la conclusion du pret en dollar US pose enormement de problemes
au moment de l'execution, en raison des fluctuations de cette
monnaie.
IV/ APPRECIATION DES RESULTATS
A - FORMATION DU PERSONNEL DE SANTE
L'ecole d'infirmier de BOUAKE a ete ouverte en janvier
1988 comme prevu, tandis que celle de KORHOGO, avec beaucoup de
retard, fonctionne depuis mars 1994 dans un chantier pas encore
acheve.
De 1986 A 1994, 1.817 infirmiers ont ete formes
portant le nombre d'infirmiers en service a 4.000
L'objectif poursuivi, a savoir une capacite de
formation de 320 infirmiers par an est donc atteint.
En ce qui concerne le programme de formation, le
contenu a ete adapte aux priorites de la politique de sante de la COTE
d'IVOIRE. Mais les methodes pedagogiques et la formation sur le
terrain seront davantage ameliores avec l1'tablissement des NORMES
DE SOINS INFIRMIERS qui est en voie d'achevement.
De 1986 A 1994, 59 moniteurs ont ete formes dont 21
avec des bourses OMS et 38 avec des bourses du Projet.
Ces formations ont ete realisees dans les CESSI de
DAKAR et de YAOUNDE.
La formation des surveillants d'unites des soins a ete
engagee en COTE d'IVOIRE depuis 1986 avec le debut du Projet. A ce
jour, 108 ont ete formes et le cycle se poursuit sur la base de 20 par
an.



-6-
La reconnaissance de la fonction d'aide-soignant a
fait l'objet d'un dossier definissant leur profil, les modalites de
recrutement et de formation.
Aujourd'hui, cette qualification est reconnue par le
nouveau statut de la Fonction Publique et la formation pourra etre
assuree par les ecoles d'infirmiers.
Par ailleurs, depuis 1991, les ecoles d'infirmiers
sont  integrees  dans  un  etablissement  public  national  denomme
Institut National de Formation des Agents de Sante (INFAS) qui doit
prendre en charge leur fonctionnement, assurer la maintenance de
leurs infrastructures et de leurs equipements et redefinir les
nouveaux programmes de formation, en tenant compte de 1tlaboration
en voie d'achevement des NORMES DE SOINS INFIRMIERS.
Si globalement on peut considerer que l'objectif
poursuivi pour ameliorer la formation des infirmiers a ete atteint,
par contre, la planification a long terme des effectifs nta pu etre
realisee comme prevue.
En effet, le fichier du personnel etabli sur la base
d'un recensement realise en 1992 n'est pas operationnel et le
probleme de la maitrise des effectifs aussi bien sur le probleme de la
maitrise qu'en ce qui concerne leur utilisation reste a resoudre.
B - RENFORCEMENT DES CAPACITES DE GESTION
AU MINISTERE DE LA SANTE :
Le Bureau d'Organisation et de Gestion (B.O.G.) a ete
mis en place mais, il n'a pu beneficier que d'un assistant technique
de 1986 a 1994 et d'un second seulement de 1988 A 1990, sur les 3
prevus dans le cadre de la Cooperation Francaise.
14 cadres nationaux au total ont servi de 1986 A 1994
au B.O.G. qui a plut6t servi de terrain de formation de ces
derniers.
Le B.O.G. a assure comme prevu le secretariat du
College des Directeurs Centraux, elargi une fois par trimestre aux
Directeurs Regionaux et le suivi de l'execution de ses decisions.
Il a participe a la formation, A la gestion, a
l'inventaire de la reglementation existante et a l'elaboration de
nouveaux textes, au suivi et a 1'exploitation de l'activite des
h6pitaux, a la mise en place d'une comptabilite analytique, A
1'exercice de la tutelle des Ministeres sur les EPN du secteur sante,
A l'elaboration et la mise en place du recouvrement des couits...
Le BOG constitue aujourd'hui une cellule de reflexion
au service du Ministere pour tous les problemes en rapport avec
l'organisation et la gestion des services de sante.
Par ailleurs, le programme de formation a ete realise
bien au-dela des previsions avec le concours financier d'autres
bailleurs de fonds tels que : OMS, FAC, BAD et KFW.



-7-
Ainsi
- 50 administrateurs des services de sante ont ete formes et 21
autres sont en formation a 1'ENA oui a ete ouverte une section
permanente de formation en administration sanitaire (moyenne
de 10/an) ;
- 57 cadres de niveau A ont ete egalement formes a la gestion
hospitaliere ;
- les Directeurs Regionaux ont beneficie de stages de
perfectionnement au CHR de BORDEAUX en FRANCE ;
- 14 ingenieurs biomedicaux et 35 techniciens de maintenance ont
ete formes ;
- 22 stages de perfectionnement dans les techniques de gestion,
en organisation des services sanitaires, en sterilisation et
en hygiene hospitaliere ont ete finances par le Projet comme
prevu.
En outre, les objectifs specifiques notamment la
reorganisation de la fonction alimentaire des CHU visant a reduire
sensiblement le coOt des journees alimentaires ainsi que la
realisation de l'imprimerie de la sante ont ete atteints.
Enfin, la mise en place d'un systeme de recouvrement
des couts a pu etre menee a son terme et son application est effective
depuis octobre 1994.
Par contre, la realisation d'un systeme d'information
et de gestion (SIG) n'a pu etre menee a son terme en raison de
l'ambition trop globale du Projet, tant au niveau des donnees prises
en compte que des supports de saisie de ces donnees.
En ce qui concerne l'approvisionnement en medicament
et la gestion de la Pharmacie de la Sante Publique (PSP), l'ampleur de
ce probleme a necessite le concours  financier du FED pour sa
realisation.
Neanmoins,   la  formation  des  prescripteurs  en
medicaments essentiels a pu etre financee par le Projet comme prevu
et environ 200 medecins ont requ cette formation.
Il reste beaucoup a faire pour rendre effective et
veritablement operationnelle la capacite de gestion du Ministere de
la Sante Publique malgre la realisation quasi-totale des objectifs
assignes & cette composante.
En premier lieu, il convient d'achever la mise en
place du SIG, prealable indispensable a la generalisation de la
programmation budgetaire qui suppose une bonne connaissance de
l'activite.



-8-
C - DEMOGRAPHIE
Les resultats du volet "Demographie" portent sur les
aspects quantitatifs et institutionnels d'une part, et sur la
formation des hommes d'autres part.
1) Aspects quantitatifs :
Le  recensement  general  de  la  population  et  de
irhabitat (RGPH 88) a permis de disposer :
- d'un fichier des localites (8.549 au total)
- d'un repertoire de districts et d'ilots de recensement ;
- d'une cartographie totale et approfondie du territoire
national (5.862 croquis de village-moyen ; 7.000 esquisses de
plans de rattachement de campements ; la mise a jour de 100
plans d'ensemble de ville ; 184 cartes de sous-prefectures ; 50
cartes de departements ; etc.)
- de plus de 600 tableaux portant sur la population de droit,
groupes en 52 types et classes en 8 series.
Ces resultats ont ete publies dans 4 volumes dont le
volume 3 est une analyse au niveau national en 5 tomes.
2) Aspects institutionnels :
A la faveur du RGPH 88, le Gouvernement a institue un
recensement general de la population tous les dix (10) ans.
De meme, il a ete cree au sein de l'Institut National
de la statistique (INS) un service charge specifiquement des
recensements  gqneraux   de   population   et   des   enquetes
demographiques.
3) Formation des hommes
Les cadres nationaux de l'Institut National de la
Statistique ont beneficie de l'appui technique des experts du FNUAP,
de la CEA, du Departement de Cooperation Technique pour le
Developpement (DTCD), de la Banque Mondiale et du Bureau de
Recensement des Etats-Unis (BUCN) dans les domaines de la gestion, de
la cartographie censitaire, de la collecte, du traitement
informatique et de l'analyse des donnees de recensement.
Les cadres nationaux ont egalement beneficie de
formations soit sous forme de seminaire ou atelier, soit sous forme
de cours academiques de courte duree dans divers domaines dans des
institutions specialisees en AFRIQUE, en EUROPE, aux ETATS-UNIES et
au CANADA.



-9-
V/ PROPOSITIONS POUR L'AVENIR
La realisation des objectifs du Projet Sante-
Demographie (Pret 2619 IVC) que l'on peut considerer comme
globalement satisfaisante a ete entravee par les difficultes
soulevees plus haut et qui pourraient etre limitees a l'avenir :
- par une identification plus claire du contenu des operations et
eventuellement, pour eviter le contexte du Projet 2619 IVC,
avec un accord de pret s'appuyant sur une analyse purement
descriptive des operations a mener ;
- par des procedures d'execution plus souples permettant des
decaissements plus rapides sans exclure le contr6le
indispensable pour le bailleur et l'emprunteur ;
- l'accord de prdt devra prevoir une clause d'ajustement
automatique tenant compte des cas de fluctuations a la baisse
de dollar US. Cela permettrait d'eviter un arret des
activites ;
- I'accord de pret devra egalement prevoir la mise en place par
decret d'une structure de coordination pour veiller au ban
fonctionnement du Projet.
Par ailleurs, il est necessaire, en vue de perenniser
les acquis du Projet 2619 ICV, de poursuivre certaines actions
entamees et qui malheureusement ont connu ou qui connaissent des
difficultes dans leur execution.
Ces actions concernent aussi bien le volet sante que
le volet demographie.
A - VOLET SANTE
Il s'agit de
- de la prise en charge effective du fonctionnement et de la
maintenance des ecoles d'infirmiers par l'INFAS.
- de la mise en oeuvre effectives de la formation des aide-
soignants.
- de la refonte des programmes de formation sur la base des normes
de soins en cours d'elaboration.
- de la poursuite de la realisation du SIG par la prise en charge
par la Banque Mondiale du financement necessaire pour achever
l'acquisition de l1'quipement informatique et la formation du
personnel.



- 10 -
de la mise en place d'une veritable maitrise des effectifs et
d'une planification des ressources humaines.
- de la poursuite de la mission du BOG comme bureau d'etudes au
service du Ministere de la Sante Publique et des Affaires
Sociales.
B - VOLET DEMOGRAPHIE
- Le traitement des donnees devra se faire dans un centre de
l'Institut National de la Statistique avec des micro-
ordinateurs autonomes prevus a cet effet.
- La realisation des differentes activites du recensement devra
etre centralisee et non dispensee sur plusieurs sites.
Abidjan, le    23 DEC. 1994
Le Directeur de Cabinet
Coordonnateur du Projet
LeDrdu
*  CaIR DUR



!2/06 '95 17:16 FAX 225  44 16 87        IBRD ABIDJAN CI                          i002
MINISTERE OE LA SANTE-P               BLl> -PUBLIQU~  REPUBUQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
ET DES AFFAIRES SOCIALES       '             |     nion-DsciplineTravail
C A B I N IE T                           1= |  Abidjan, I  OJIN 79^
________________ I.E DIRECTEUR DE CABINET
No  29 4 /MSPAS/CAB/BOG' *
^& |Mornieur le Chef de la Mission
1-_          --_  Residents de la Banque Mondiaio
A B I D J A N
OBJET: Rapport de fin d'execution du Projet      A L'ATTENION DE
Sant6 at D0mographie (Pr6t 2619 IVC)        MONSIEUR IAN PORTER
Chef de la Division Population
REF. V/Lettre n- WA/SR/154 du 15 mal 1995           at Ressourcas Humainee,
-Dpartement de I'Afrique Centrale
et Occidental a ila Banque
Mondlale
WASHINGTON D.C.
Suite A votre iettr vle en r6f6renve,- 'al l'honnmu de you. sinifier quo le n'al pa
d'obmevatlons particullim A fair concemant le rapport de fin d'_ xcution du Praie $enth at
D1mographie 6tabil par la Division Population St Rsourcee Humainas.
Veuillhz agroer. Monsieur le Chef do Mision, I'exprension do ma haute
consid6ration.
Le Directeur de Cabinet
Coordinateur du Projet






t    ' <                  <                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B U R K I N A               
<          9, -.i                        .                                 ~~~~~~~                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F A  S O 0
,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-..---------- 
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o   f                                                                      0       G I,
DANANE                                                                                                                      7
Ir-~ 11 n*- COTE D'VOIRE
D t                          ,,o T'tHEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
4    NURSING SCHOOLS_    PROJECT ZONES
-    ECaiES DINFIRMIERS                     ZONES DU PROJEr
UNIVERSITY HOSPITALS                  BOUNDARIES OF MEDICAL DISTRICTS
HOPIrAUX UNWlERSITAIBES               LIM/ITES DE SECTEURS DE SANTE
o -o       do   co    o    a c                                                 C    R E G I O N A I H O S P IT A L S      S U IP R E E E C T U IE   B O U N D A R IE S
ZIIOSEItIR3   HOPITAUX REGIONAUX LIMTrEs DE SOUS.PREFECTU/ES
* SUB -REGIONAL HOSPITALS               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
HOPITAUX SOUS REGIONAUX               LIMJTEs INTERNArIONALE
,,..  ,.... o.0~~~...   o~ooo. ooA .o.~~~ o.0,  -~            m   MEDICAL DISTRCICS 
.o,,, _n 0.,.on  * ..o0 I ho,, 0..1tl ,0o0 50 7l. 7AtM oA                           -    BASES GE SECTEUOS D E S GCTE    DE SANTE                 CD
.000000.I .n or o.o..pI.o of wn0io.0 b.oodoo.                                                                                                                                       '0
a~~   ~             ~               ~             ~               ~             ~               ~             ~               ~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  7       









LMA(G LN(G
Report Nc:        15u3'-i
Type: 1 (CR



