Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
/A V/S- j7VG
Rqeort No. P-4145-IVC
REPORT AND RECO       lON
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
TEATIONAL  ANAK FO  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEL T
TO THE
EECUTIE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN A)UNT EQUALENT TO US$22.2  LLION
TO
THE RPUnBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FM A
WEALTE AND               PROJECT
August 30, 1985
This document hus a restrieted distributi and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties Its cuntents may not otberwise be dicsed without World Bnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                            CFA Franc (CFAF) 3,
US$1.00                   -              CFAF 490 2/
CFAF 1,000,000                           U US$2,040
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Netric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAL       Autonomous Amortization Fund (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement)
CAISSTAB Agricultural Stabilization Pund (Caisse de Stabilisation)
CHU       University Hospital (Centre 'Aspitalier Universitaire)
CHR       Regional Hospital (Centre Hospitalier Regional)
CIRES     Ivorian Center for Economic and Social Research (Centre Ivoirien
de Recherche Economique et Social)
DCGTX     Directorate for Control of Major Works (Direction et Controle
des Grands Travaux)
EDF       European Development Fund
EPI       Expanded Program of Immunization
FP        Family Planning
GOIC      Government of Ivory Coast
ILO       International Labour Organization
LSMS      Living Standards Measurement Survey
MCR       Maternal and Child Health
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
NIS       Management Information System
MOPHP     Ministry of Public Health and Population
MOB       Management and Organization Bureau, MOPHP
NIPH      National Institute of Public Health
PCC       Project Coordination Committee
PHC       Primary Health Care
PO        Project Office, MOPHP
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
UNECA     United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
UNFPA     United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF    United Nations Childrens Education Fund
USAID     United States' Agency for International Development
WHO       World Health Organization
11   The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc at the rate of FF 1 to CFAF 50.
The French Franc is currently floating.
J   As of July 1985.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
IXALTILAND DE09MOAPIC POJR(CT
Loan and Proiect Suumarv
Borrower:      Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount:        US$22.2 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayment over 20 years, witb five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Cofinancier:  USAIDIU.S. Bureau of the Census
Project
Description:  The project, which is the Bank's first operation in the
health sector, would assist:
1. the Ministry of Public Health and Population (HOPBP)
to:
(a) strengthen health manpower development through expansion
of nurse training capacity to address current shortagess
through implementation of a revised curriculum, including
family planning and field training, that is more responsive
to the health needs of the country, and through development
of health manpover planning capacity; and,
(b) improve NOPBP management capability and efficiency
of health service delivery by strengthening: ti) the
Central Directorates through development of a management
information system and improvement in planning and
operations; (ii) major hospitals through management
training. development of cost-containment programs
and strengthening of key services; and (iii) basic
health services througb training programs for all staff
including auxiliaries and programs in management, super-
vision and evaluation.
2. the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) to:
(a) improve the availability of demographic information
through strengthening of the Directorate of Statistics
to carry out a program of demographic data collection
and analysis, including a national population census
and a subsequent survey of migration; and
(b) provide the basis for population policy development
by disseminating the results of the census and surveys
and integrating sucb demographic information into medium
and long-term macroeconomic and sectoral planning.
Th document has a ekedditibuton ad may be used by mcipiues only  theefonu
of teirf flki dudes It contents may notohrwise be disclod without Wodd Bank auoitin.



- ii -
Benefits:      The project would improve the quality of nurse training
and, over the longer term, would belp to address a serious
shortage of nursing staff. The overall quality of service
delivery is expected to be improved through strengthening
of the management of KOPEP Directorates. Cost-containment
measures in selected principal hospitals would improve their
operating efficiency and permit the orderly introduction
of appropriate cost-recovery mechanisms planned by the
Government. Strengthering in-service training and supervision
of staff in 70 health centers would serve as a first step
in developing a national model for the delivery of basic
health care in urban and rural areas. A census to be under-
taken during 1987 would provide the esseatial data for improving
economic and human resource planning and for developing
population policies.
Risks:         The relative inexperience in project implementation of the
NOPHP and of the Directorate of Statistics within HEF vould
be the main risk. To minimize this risk, the main infrastructure
component would be supervised by the DCGTX, a Government
orgaization established to implement large civil wrks,
which has a proven track record. A Management and Organization
Bureau would be established for development and follow-up
of management activities, and would be provided with appropriate
anagement expertise. To minximize organizational risks,
the planned census would follow established methodology;
in addition, technical assistance would be available from
UMFPA,  NECA the U.S. Bureau of the Census, and France to
support project implementation.



- iii-
Estimted Cost:1/
US$ Million
Part A: Hbelth System Improvement                     Local   Foreign  Total
1. Manpower Development
Nursing Schools                               7.5       5.3     12.8
Field Training Programs                       0.4       0.2      0.6
Subtotal                               7.9      5-5      13.4
2. management
Central Ministry                              0.6       0.8      1.4
Hospital System                               0.8       0.9      1.7
Basic Health Services                         .0.8      0.4      1.2
Subtotal                               2.2      2.1       4.3
3.  Project Management and Administration          0.2      0.2      0.4
4. Repayment of PPF                                0.2      0.3      0.5
Subtotal Part A                       10.5      8.1      18.6
Part B: Poplation Data DevelSpment
Census of Localities                         0.4       0.0      0.4
1987 Population Census                       3.5       0.9      4.4
Post-Census Activities                       0.3       0.2      0.5
Subtotal Part B                        4.2       1.1      5.3
Total Baseline Costs                                  14.7      9.2     23.9
Physical Contingencies                                 0.7      0.7      1.4
Price Contingencies                                    2.8      1.6      4.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               18.2     11.5     29.7
Financing Plan
Bank                                                  10.9     11.3     22.2
Government                                             7.3       -       7.3
USAID/Bureau of Census                                  -       0.2      0.2
18.2     11.5     29.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Annual                              1.1   3.1   4.2   4.9   4.2   3.1   1.6
Cunmlative                          1.1   4.2   8.4  13.3  17.5  20.6  22.2
Economic rate of return: N/A
Map: No. IBRD 18942R
1/ Project costs include taxes estimated at US$4.8 m-Ilion.



DNTERATICAL  NM  FOR    CSTUCTiE D DAVELONEHE
RSDEPORwT AN5DD
TO TEE UXnCTV  DIRUTUS Oil A PIOPOMD LOWN
TO TDE REPUBC OF TEE IVR  COASr
FURA 181AIf AND      CRP          VOC!
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$22.2 million
to help finance a Health and Demographic Project. The proposed loan would
have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at the
standard variable rate. The U.S. Bureau of the Census, with financing from
the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) would provide about
US$0.2 million of technical assistance for the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY .J
2.        The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast: A Basic Economic Report' was
circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977 and published under the
title "The Challenge of Success' in 1978. The assessment of the country's
economic prospects has been periodically updated in subsequent President's
Reports on specific projects. It has been presented in greater detail
in the "Note on the Economic Situation in the Ivory Coast" attached as
Annex IV to the President's Report on the Second Structural Adjustment
Loan (P-3613-IVC) of June 9, 1983. An economic report based on the findings
of a November 1984 mission is being prepared. The paragraphs below incorporate
the principal findings of that mission. Annex I provides basic country
data.
Backzround
3.        During the first two decades after independence in 1960, the
Ivory Coast experienced an average 7% per annum GRY growth rate, one of
the most rapid in the world for a non-oil exporting country. As a result,
GDP per capita reached US$1,150 in 1980, the second highest in Sub-Saharan
Africa. This achievement has been all the more remarkable as the country
has no important mineral resource or other special natural endowment.
Growth performance has been based mainly on the efficient development of
agriculture and a productive use of foreign factors of production, capital
as well as labor, within a remarkably stable political environment, an
open economic framework, and a vide scope for private initiative supported
by pragmatic public policies. Despite important diversification efforts,
the country has remained highly vulnerable to variations in the international
environment. Foreign trade corresponds to more than 60Z of GDP and the
three main agricultural products--coffee, cocoa and timber-still represent
about 5OZ of exports of goods, compared with 85% in 1960. The benefits
jj Parts I and II are substantially unchanged from the President's Report
(P4138-IVC) for the Industrial Finance and Development Project, dated
August 5, 1985, submitted to the Executive Directors on August 21,
1985.



- 2 -
of growth were also unevenly distributed as the more limited potential
of the north led to lagging income growth in this region, despite impressive
gains in selected crops such as cotton. Through 1975, fluctuations in
the external terms of trade were not large. The first major increase in
oil prices was temporarily offset by favorable export prices. The effects
of moderate external shocks were also in large part countered, internally
by a price stabilization mechanism for the main agricultural products and,
externally, through membership in the West African Monetary Union which
ensures, inter alia- unlimited free convertibility of the currency through
a cooperation agreement with France.
4.        Present economic and financial stringencies stem largely from
the difficulties that the country faced in adapting to the sharp adverse
changes which have occurred in the world economy after an export boom had
led to a degree of financial imprudence. Spurred by high coffee and cocoa
prices, which led to an 80% improvement in the terms of trade between 1975
and 1977 and to surpluses in the stabilization fund (C&ISSTAB) representing
more than IOZ of GDP in 1977, the Government launched an overly ambitious
public investment program which rose to over 25Z of GDP in 1978, some 40X
of which was financed by external borrovings. The Government maintained
the public investuient effort at some 20Z of GDP between 1978 and 1980,
in spite of declining coffee and cocoa prices and the resulting 30X deterio-
ration in terms of trade during this period. However, this program did
not generate sustained economic growth, as public investment had been increas-
ingly oriented toward high-cost and excessive scale operations in sectors
with long pay-off periods, such as education and transport. Marginal returns
to investment in directly productive sectors began to drop off as the most
obvious comparative advantages had been exploited. These excessive investments,
followed by a decline of export earnings and a contraction of Government
revenue, led to a severe financial crisis in 1980. While GDP was still
growing at 7.7Z, fueled by still mounting public expenditures, the public
sector financial gap grew to 12.7Z of GDP in 1980 while the balauce of
payments current account deficit reached 16.7% of GDP.
Recent Economic Developments (1981-83)
5.        The continuing adverse prospects for coffee and cocoa prices,
the high cost of foreign borrowings, and the worldwide recession led the
Government to launch, at the end of 1980, a stringent financial recovery
plan coupled with a longer term structural adjustment program. The financial
program, which aimed at restoring internal and external equilibrium, consisted
of a series of budgetary and monetary measures to contain credit expansion,
to increase government revenue, to reverse the upward trend of current
expenditures, and to restrain the investment program while restricting
external borrowings and improving the external debt profile. This program
was supported during the 1981-83 period by a SDR 484.5 million (US$514
million at 1983 SDRIUS$ exchange rate) Extended Fund Facility from the
IKF. The first phase of the structural adjustment program called for wide-
ranging reforms in planning and programming, institutions, and incentives.
Public investment was curtailed and redirected toward productive projects;
public enterprises, particularly in agriculture, were reorganized to make
them more efficient, and the price, subsidy and tariff systems were overhauled
to restore the growth of output in agriculture and industry. The Bank



made a US$150.0 million loan in December 1981 in support of this first
phase of the structural adjustment program.
6.        Between 1980 and 1983 the Government succeeded in reducing the
public sector and current account deficits despite four unfavorable factors
beyond the authorities' control. First, the terms of trade declined by
a further 14% during this period and were, in 1983. some 40% lower than
in 1977. Second, the world recession has proven to be deeper sad longer
than was originally expected, reducing the demand for Ivory Coast's exports,
while higher interest rates increased the debt service burden. Third,
the development of domestic oil production was not as rapid as previously
expected as it reached a level of only 1.1 million tons a year in 1983.
Finally, rainfall was far below average in 1983.
7.        The first objective of the financial recovery program had been
to reduce the public sector deficit, which is at the root of present external
imbalances. This deficit declined from 12.7Z of GDP in 1980 to 10.9Z in
1983, before taking into account debt amortization. Under the program,
the trend of rapid expansion of current expenditure has been substantially
slowed; implementation of a strict recruitment and wage policy, cuts in
direct and indirect consumer subsidies, and improved financial control
of parastatals enabled the Government to reduce the current budget by about
21 in real terms; capital expenditures have been curtailed by more than
252 in real terms during this period by cancelling or postponing ezpensive
non-priority projects.
8.        The balance of payments current account deficit declined from
16.7Z of GDP in 1980 to 13.82 in 1983. Despite the deterioration in the
terms of trade, the trade surplus increased from 5.OZ to 9.5Z of GDP.
This was mainly due to a reduction of imports, which declined from 41 .2
to 36.2Z of GDP following the slowdown of the economy, and the development
of local oil production. The decline by about one-fourth in the real effective
exchange rate during this period was also an important factor in the improvement
of the trade account of the balance of payments. However, the rapid rise
of interest payments on public debt, .which more than tripled in ClAF terms
from 1980 to 1983 and accounted for 8.1Z of GDP in 1983, reduced the impact
of this improvement on the current account. The debt service ratio rose
from 33.4U in 1980 to 36.8Z in 1983 because of high interest rates, slow
growth in export receipts, and the large increase of foreign borrowing
required to finance the public sector deficit. During the same period
the external debt outstanding increased from 45Z to 80Z of GDP.
9.        These budgetary and monetary policies have contributed to a marked
slowdown in the economy after 1980. For the first time since 1960, the
country experienced a decline in national income. GDP in real terms declined
by 8.1S over the 1980-83 period compared with a 6.1X average annual increase
during the four previous years. This represents about a 20% decline per
capita in CFAF terms over this period. GNP per capita vas about US$710
in 1983. The secondary sector has been the most severely hit by the recession
with value added falling by 20% in the aggregate during this period and
by more than 50% in the case of the construction and public works subsectors
which depend heavily on public investment. Inflation, measured by the
consumer price index, was about 11.3Z in 1983, the annual average since
1980, the impact of the activity slowdown and the restrictive monetary



- 4 -
policy being counterbalanced by the increase in import prices and the effect
of fiscal measures.
The Present Economic Situation
10.       The economic and financial situation of the Ivory Coast further
deteriorated in the second half of 1983 as a consequence of the worst climatic
conditions since independeuce and a sharp reduction in foreign borrowing.
The impact of the 1983 drought and related bush fires is estimated to correspond
to a 4% decline in GDP. Coffee production fell by two-thirds compared
with its 1982/83 level while the reduction in electricity supply by about
30Z folloving the drying up of the reservoirs induced the implementation
of a severe load-shedding plan. Hydroelectric plants generated about 85%
of electricity in previous years, but only about 60Z in 1983. The effect
of the drought on the energy sector alone increased the public sector and
balance of payments deficits by the equivalent of 1.5% of GDP. In the
second half of 1983, domestic public arrears increased rapidly, and represented
10.9% of GDP at the end of the year. In order to avoid a liquidity crisis
the Ivorian authorities decided to intensify their financial recovery and
economic adjustment programs an;d to request a rescheduling of public external
debt service payments due in the 25-month period starting December 1, 1983.
Members of the Paris Club agreed to reschedule 100% of principal and 50Z
of interest payments falling due until the end of 1984 and the agreement
included a goodwill clause for rescheduling of debts in 1985. Members
of the London Club agreed to re&chedule 1OOZ of the principal due over
the 13-month period to the end of 1984, and agreed in principle to reschedule
90o of the principal to be repaid in 1985. These creditors also agreed
in this context, and for the first time in Sub-Saharan Africa, to make
a US$120 million loan for balance of payments support in 1984.
11.         A much intensified financial recovery program was implemented
in 1984. It aimed at avoiding further deterioration in Ivory Coast's external
creditworthiness and at sharply reducing externAl and internal imbalances.
It was supported by the IKP with a SDR 82.75 million one-year stand-by
agreement. This program aimed to reduce the public sector deficit from
10.4% to 4Z of GDP and the current account deficit from 13.1% to 7Z of
GDP. Government payment arrears were to be cut by 60% and, after taking
into account the impact of the debt rescheduling, the overall balance of
payments was expected to be in equilibrium. To achieve these objectives
a series of tough stabilization measures vas implemented. These include
a freeze on Government current expenditures in nominal terms. a further
cut in public investment, large increases in electricity and railroad tariffs,
prices of petroleum products, and water charges, a reduction in civil service
enrollments and technical assistance, and a reform in scholarship policy.
Improvement in the financial situation of the public sector should also
stem from a large increase in CAISST&B receipts resulting from firm world
prices for coffee and cocoa and draving on stocks accumulated in previous
years.
Medium and Long-term Economic Prospects
12.       Over the remainder of the decade, the evolution of the eccuomy
will stay critically dependent on public finance and balance of payments
constraints. As is typical in a country undergoing a rescheduling of its



- 5 -
external debt, the challenge vill be to main.ain sufficient monetary and
fiscal discipline and to generate the Eoreigz erchange required to withstand
the transition to the post-reschedulingu period, when deferred debt service
payments will have to be made. This tiansition period will be difficult
as payments on external debt are projected to increase sharply folloving
two years of rescheduling in 1984 and 1985, and as the necessary increase
in production of tradeables for export and for efficient import substitution
is likely to materialize only gradually over the rest of the decade. The
necessary continuation of tight fiscal and monetary policies, substantial
improvements in the quality of the public investment program, and further
implementation of agricultural and industrial incenti*e -eforms, are expected
to enable a resumption of GDP growth in real terms at an average annual
rate of 3.7Z over the 1985-95 period.
13.       The public sector deficit is expected to decline in 1985.  Neverthe-
less, conditions are expected to remain very tight in the Ivory Coast for
a number of years. Continued monetary and fiscal discipline and intensification
of the structural adjustment program 'will be required if the stabilization
is to be consolidated and the conditions for resumed growth are to be re-
established.  Economic developments in the Ivory Coast are being closely
monitored.
14.       Of the US$5,200 million external public debt outstanding at the
end of 1983, 15% was provided bilaterally by governments, 21% by international
aid agencies (of which 70% by the Bank Group), and 55Z by private banks
and bond issues, while 9Z came in the form of suppliers' crediL. About
75% of the total borrowing not supplied by international aid agencies came
from four channels: internationally syndicated loans (33Z), France (29%),
USA (11%) and Lebanon (5Z). France and the European Communities remain
the principal sources of development assistance in grant form, accounting
for about 1% of the flow of foreign assistance to the public sector.
PART II - BANR GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
15.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes fifty operations totalling
US$1,432.4 million, including US$14 million from the Third Window, and
an IDA credit of US$7.5 million. Of these, eighteen have been for agriculture,
supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, forestry, oil palm and coconut develcv-ant,
and rural development in the North-East Savannah and Center-West regious.
There are six road projects and two highway sector projects.  The remaining
twenty-four loans were for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage
and drainage system, water supply, urban development, petroleum exploration
and development, pover distribution, tourism development, small- and
medium-scale enterprises, a regional clinker (cement) project, a regional
railway project, and more recently, for structural adjustment and related
technical assistance. IFC has supported textiles, fertilizers, flour milling,
development banking. and agricultural plantation operations in the country.
Annex II contains a sumiAry statement of Bank Group operations. In general,
implementation of Bank projects has been satisfactory and has improved
substantially over the past five years. The disbursement ratio (disbursements
during the fiscal year as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the
beginning of the year) has risen from 15.2% in 1977 to 33.1Z in 1983.



-6-
The 1984 Ivory Coast disbursement ratio of 55.0Z compares very favorably
with the Bank-wide average of 24.9% and with ratios for comparable countries
such as Tunisia (14.9%), Cameroon (21.9%) or Kenya (34.6Z) for the same
year.
16.       The Bank's first two structural adjustment loans of US$150.0
million in FY82 and uS$250.7 million in FY84 supported the Government's
program ,f firm measures to adjust the economy to the deteriorating interna-
tional environment and to lay the basis for future growtb. They reflect
the close and frank dialogue on economic policy between the Bank and the
Ivory Coast. Under SAL II, the Government has made substantial progress
in curtailing and redirecting the public investment program, in continuing
the rehabilitation of parastatal enterprises, in raising producer prices
of all major crops, in implementing the first phase of the industrial incentive
reforms, and in pursuing housing policy reform. Implementation of the
initial stages of the structural adjustment program has led to the development
of longer-term rehabilitation and reform programs for several subsectors
and key public enterprises, which are now at the project preparation stage.
A third phase of the Government's continuing program of structural change
is being prepared.
17.       Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of the
Government-s policy of crop diversification, promotion of egports, and
increased emphasis on developing smallholder production. The most receut
project approved by the Board is a Second Forestry Project. In the near
future, the Bank is considering assisting the Government in rehabilitating
the sugar subsector, and providing further assistance to the oil-palm and
rubber subsectors, as well as for improved systems of extension and research.
Thus far, the Bank Group has financed six road projects totalling US$123.3
millions a railway project, and two highway sector operations; the $110
million Second Highway Sector Project, approved in June 1985, helps to
finance the country's sector investment program through 1988.
18.       The Bank has been closely associated with the Govermuent's efforts
to modernize the education system, in particular at the primary, secondary,
and vocational levels, through three education projects. A fourth, focusing
on rehabilitation and cost reduction, is under preparation. The two Abidjan
sewerage and drainage projects, approved in FY75 and FY78. cover the first
phases of a Government program to improve sanitation in Abidjan. The two
urban development projects approved in FY77 and FY82 aimed at helping to
meet some of Abidjan's low-income housing and transport needs and at assisting
Government in carrying out its regional development policy of shifting
rapid urban growth from the capital city to regional centers. These actions
have been complemented by two water supply projects. In the energy sector,
a First Power Project was approved in July 1980 to finance power distribution
facilities and technical assistance, and a Petroleum Exploration and Development
Project for offshore hydrocarbons was approved in June 1982. A project
to develop offshore gas reserves is also being studied.
19.       In viev of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy, the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises
in FY76. which has been followed by an artisans, small- and medium-scale



- 7 -
enterprise project approved in March 1979, and two lines of credit for
hotel financing and technical assistance in the tourism sector.  The industrial
sector is now undergoing major changes in its policy environment as part
of the country's adjustment program. An Industrial Finance and Development
project, to assist existing enterprises in adapting to the reformed environment,
was submitted recently to the Board.  In June 1976, the Bank also extended
a loan to the Ivory Coast in support of the CIMAO project, the clinker
production plant located in Togo and ovned jointly by the Governments of
Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo.
20.       The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to
an average of US$164.8 million annually in the FY80-84 period. The average
annual lending rate is expected to continue so grow over the next few years.
The BDak Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt is expected to
rise from the present 17.4% to about 26Z by 1995; its share of total debt
service is expected to rise from 15.3Z at present to about 17.5Z by 1990.
PART III - THE POPULATION AND HTEATH SECTORS
Pouulat ion Status
21.       The Ivory Coast had an estimated population of 10.2 million in
mid-1985. Population density, averaging about 32 inhabitants per square
kilometer, is relatively low, but uneven by region, ranging from over 50
in some southern areas to less than 15 in the Southwest and East. The
country is highly urbanized by African standards (about 50%). Of this
urban population over 80% live in the South, which includes the Greater
Abidjan metropolitan area with an estimated population of 2.5 million.
The age structure of the Ivory Coast is youthful with children under 15
years of age accounting for 45S of the total. Fertility levels are high
with an estimated total fertility rate of about 6.6. Life expectancy is
estimated at about 53 years.
22.       The rate of population growth has been rapid over the past two
decades, and is currently estimated at 4.1X. It is a combination of a
high and rising rate of natural increase, that has now reached about 3.1%,
and substantial net immigration. The natural increase is a result of a
continuing high crude birth -ate, now about 46 per thousand, combined with
a high but falling crude death rate, about 14 per thousand. The rapid
economic expansion in the 1960s and 1970s, based mainly on agriculture,
relied on and in turn induced substantial inflows of immingrant labor from
neighboring countries, chiefly Burkina and Mali. As a result, the size
and relative importance of the foreign-born community has steadily increased,
and is now estimated to represent about 25Z of the total population. The
combined effects of immigration and internal migration have led to increasing
regional disparities, with high rates of population growth in the rainforest
and southern savannah areas and negligible to slow growth elsewhere. Migratory
patterns have also been the major contributors to a rapid pace of urban
growth, averaging abr'ut 8-12Z per annum over the past 20 years. According
to Bank projections based on the 1975 census and 1978179 survey data, the
population is expected to increase to 12.6 million in 1990, 17.8 million
in 2000 and 25.8 million in 2015.  Over a 30 year period, t=2 urban population



- 8 -
would increase from 49 to 63 percent of total population. Abidjan would
grow from its current size of 2.5 million people to over 8 million by 2015.
HealtL and Nutrition Status
23.       Despite some improvements over the past two decades, health-related
indicators reveal a poor health status of the population in the Ivory Coast.
Disease patterns are similar to those in other West African countries.
Infectious and communicable childhood diseases, compounded by malnutrition,
are still the principal causes of mortality and morbidity. Mortality is
largely attributable to measles, tetanus, lover respiratory infections,
malaria, whooping cough and meningitis. Life expectancy ranges from about
56 years in Abidjan to 50 in rural forest areas and 39 years in rural savannah
areas. Maternal mortality is high throughout the country, aa fever than
102 of women receive prenatal care and only an estimated 202 of all births
take place in a sanitary environment with proper delivery assistance.
Infant and child mortality rates are relatively low in Abidjan, but considerably
higher in northern rural areas. Although the health status of the urban
population is generally better than that of the rural population, health
status is lovest among the urban poor in part because of their limited
access to potable water and vaste disposal, inadequate housing, unemployment.
and poor diet.
24.       The latest estimates of overall nutritional status suggest an
adequate supply of food, equivalent on average to 115% of the minimnum daily
requirement. However, large seasonal and regional variations in food supply
and socic-economic inequalities result in widespread malnutrition in the
North, among the urban poor, and among immigrants. Data on the extent
and distribution of nutritional deficiencies in the Ivory Coast have not
been collected systematically, and the problem of malnutrition and its
determinants is not well understood. Hovever, detailed household data
on food intake collected during a 1979 household survey are currently being
analyzed, and will be updated through the ongoing Bank-supported Living
Standards Measurement Survey (LSNS). These data are expected to provide
a comprehensive picture of nutrition levels, regional differences, and
high risk groups, and this should in turn facilitate development of priority
programs.
Health Services Orfanization and Performance
25.       The Ministry of Public Health and Population (MOPEP) has overall
responsibility for health policy formulation and execution. It is the
largest provider of health care and is also responsible for health manpower
training. The private sector consists primarily of two missionary hospitals
and a number of small health centers, health services provided by large
corporations and companies, and a number of clinics mostly located in Abidjan.
MOPEP is organized into eight National Directorates and eight Regional
Directorates. The two largest Directorates are Hospital Medicine and Public
Health which together represent about two-thirds of the total headquarters
(administrative) staff and 90% of the total staff of MOPUP. The Directorate
of Hospital Medicine is responsible for overseeing all hospitals and urban-based
curative facilities. The Public Realth Directorate has managerial and
operational responsibility for all rural facilities. Most of the substantive



- 9 -
and longer-term health sector planning has been carried out by the Ministry
of Economy and Finance (HEF).
26.       The hospital network consists of two University hospitals (CHU),
five regional (CHR), 11 district, and 48 sub-district hospitals. Due to
the lack of equipment, maintenance, medicines, qualified nursing aides,
administrative personnel, and poor management, the quantity and quality
of service is generally inadequate. Deficiencies in basic services, such
as food preparation, hygiene, and storage, distribution and utilization
of drugs by hospital pharmacies, need to be addressed if the hospitals
are to provide acceptable health services. Urban health centers (27 dispen-
saries and 13 maternities) are mainly located in the Abidjan metropolitan
area which nov has 501 of the country's urban dispensaries and 85Z of urban
maternities. Existing facilities do not have adequate staff and managerial
support to cope with the demands of a rapidly growing population, and to
address the needs of recent settlers both in Abidjan and in a number of
secondary cities. As a result, the urban population relies heavily on
hospitals for outpatient health services and deliveries.
27.       Rural health services are organized through the eight Regional
Directorates which cover a network of 26 medical districts ("Secteurs de
base"). The base unit of the medical district is an administrative center
with a dispensary, a maternity, a maternal and child health service, a
laboratory, a pharmacy, and various other services such as mobile units,
health education services, and water control units. Mobile units provide
mostly preventive health services. Although dispensaries should also provide
preventive services and health education, very few actually do so and only
20% of maternities provide these services. Lack of staff and budgetary
resources have resulted in about 15Z of dispensaries and 20Z of maternities
not being in operation. Services provided by rural facilities are generally
of poor quality.
28.       The average coverage of the population per hospital bed and per
health center is relatively good (1 bed per 867 persons and 1 health center
per 15,000 persons). The average number of women per maternity bed is
2,500. Nowever, the distribution of hospitals and health facilities shows
wide regional disparities, with some areas such as the Center and Center-
West regions very poorly served. Coverage for maternitv and MCM facilities
is also uneven. Maternities handle about 85X of deliveries in the Abidjan
area, but only 13% in rural areas, and post-natal visits are rare.
29.       An expanded program of immunization (EPI) against the six commmnicable
childhood diseases (measles, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, poliomyletis
and tuberculosis) has been carried out since 1978. EPI has now been extended
to 22 of the 26 medical districts and mobile teams are used to support
fixed medical service units. Periodic evaluation surveys indicate a fairly
high national level of immunization protection with a steady increase in
the coverage.
30.       Drug supplies are procured and distributed through the public
sector network operated by MOPHP and the Central Pharmacy and a private
sector network operating through pharmacies and informal resale arrangements,
mainly in Abidjan and Bouake. Both systems are relatively weak and result
in inadequate drug supply outside major cities. The public sector system



- 10 -
is constrained by limited budgetary allocations and by poor management
that leads to inadequate and irregular supplies both to hospital pharmacies
and to peripheral facilities. Drug procurement could also be further
rationalized and a limited list of essential drugs adopted. Drugs from
private sector pharmcies are relatively expensive as few drugs are purchased
in bulk or sold in their generic form.
Health Manpower
31.       Although the Ivory Coast has made considerable progress in health
manpower development over the past two decades, particularly in output
of doctors, the ratios of doctors, nurses and midwives to the population
remain low and in 1983 were 6.5, 10.9 and 24.9 respectively, per 100,000.
The health system employs about 7,000 support staff, who are outside the
civil service, the great majority of vhom are unskilled workers. Traditional
practitioners and community health attendants are not formally trained
and are insufficiently supervised. Although staff shortages are apparent
at the hospital level, the hospital network is much better staffed than
peripheral health facilities both in urban and in rural areas vhere chronic
understaffing is evident. The deployment of health manpower is concentrated
in the hospital network, creating wide disparities in access to and quality
of medical care between hospitals and peripheral health facilities. The
hospital network employs 70Z of all physicians, 45X of all midvives and
5OZ of all nurses.
32.       Government institutions provide almost all health-related training
in the Ivory Coast, except for in-house staff training at missionary hospitals.
Formal education exists for all groups except vurses' aides, health technicians,
laboratory assistants, administrative health staff or any other health
auxiliary. Basic medical training is offered in a seven-year program at
the School of Medicine of the University of Abidjan, and the first three
years of dentists' training are provided by the Dental Institute. The
National School of Nursing and Midwifery at Treichville (Abidjan) trains
state-registered miJd-aves and nurses following completion of a three-year
program. Completion of four years of secondary education is an admission
requirement for nurses and midwives.
Health Expenditures and Financinz.
33.       In 1984, the Government's recurrent health budget was CFAF 29.9
billion, or nearly 7X of the total Government recurrent budget, a reduction
over the 1983 level of CFAF 32.9 billion (7.6Z). In per capita terms,
hovever, the level of recurrent expenditure is relatively high (US$6.00),
indicating scope for efficiency improvement. Personnel costs absorb a
growing share, while expenditures for medicines and materials have declined
substantially. Regional imbalances in budget allocations are also apparent,
consistent with the disparities that exist in the distribution of health
facilities and manpower. Rural areas with 50Z of the population receive
about CFAF 3.2 billion or about IIZ of the recurrent budget, while the
two University Hospitals absorb about CFAF 6.2 billion (22%). Consistent
with the severe public finance constraints affecting the country, the investment
budget for the health sector has fluctuated in recent years, and declined
by nearly 70X in 1984 from the 1983 level of CFAF 1.3 billion, or 0.6Z
of the investment budget. Private health expenditures are not well documented



- 11 -
but are significant and increasing rapidly. The Ivory Coast enjoys modest
support from several international and bilateral agencies working in the
health sector, which carry out mainly small-scale and localized activities
often in the framework of broader regional programs. The principal activities
include training, epidemiological surveillance, the expanded program of
immunization (EPI), village water supply and sanitation education, and
maternal and child health (CMM) activities. In 1984, the French technical
assistance program in the health sector included about 180 medical and
paramedical staff.
Sector Policies
34.       Health Policies.  In the past, the Government concentrated on
developing the urban hospital network, which was heavily oriented toward
curative care, while relying on mobile teasz to provide at best intermittent
preventive health services in rural areas. Health manpower development
programs also reflected a curative approach. These efforts have had only
a modest effect on improving health conditions as a whole, since the rural
population had little or no access to basic health services. Recognizing
this, in the late 19709 the Government began to develop permanent health
care facilities in the 26 medical districts throughout the country.
35.       The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85) sets out the Goveroment's
priority objectives for the sector: (a) to improve access and quality
of service delivery in rural areas; (b) to improve the quantity and quality
of health manpower by expanding the capacity for paramedical training and
by reorienting it toward the country's needs; (c) to improve health sector
An"Agement and cost containment; (d) to upgrade existing health facilities,
while limiting new urban construction to those areas where no services
exist; and (e) to give increasing support to health and nutrition education
programs, particularly preventive programs, and maternal and child health
activities. A fifth plan for 1986-90 is being prepared, which is expected
to reinforce these objectives while giving particular emphasis to improving
management and efficiency.
36.       In 1982, the Government ratified the WHO Charter on Primary Health
Care '(PEC). To support this new orientation, manpover development policies
have also undergone a corresponding shift. In this context. the role of
nurses has been redefined within the framework of a health team where each
category of health professional, including auxiliaries, would have a specific
role to play. Nurses are expected to assume a lead role in the health
team and to serve as educators, administrators, and managers. In addition
to improving the productivity of doctors (para. 40), nurses would have
a particular responsibility for training and supervising subordinate
auxiliary-level staff. They would provide preventive health care and be
an important link between health centers and communities. Their training
should, therefore, prepare them to play this enlarged and central role
in the health system. A new health manpower policy, emphasizing such training,
was endorsed by the Council of Ministers in June 1984, and the Government
also decided to assign the majority of graduate nurses and midwives to
rural facilities.
37.       Povulation Police.  In the past, the Ivory Coast has encouraged
rapid population growth and high rates of immigration from neighboring



- 12 -
countries, as this provided a convenient source of labor for an expanding
economy. The Government's liberal immigration policy end pro-natalist
stance on population issues reflected its open economic policies and accorded
well witb cultural and traditional attitudes. Although official policy
remains unchanged, the deterioration in economic activity experienced in
the first half of the 1980s has increased concern among policymakers about
possible problems associated witb rapid population grovth. The problems
of rapid urban expansion are also becoming increasingly evident.
38.       Growing avareness within the medical profession of the effects
of high fertility on maternal health. and increasing demand for family
planning services in part induced by successful reductions in mortality,
have helped to begin a gradual reassessment by medical practitioners in
the country of NCR services and the role of family planning. The Government
has also taken a number of measures which suggest that a change of attitude
is beginning to take place. In addition to ratifying the WHO Charter for
Africa, which includes birth spacing activities and education as an integral
element of PFC, it has adopted an essentially laissez-faire stance toward
provision of family planning education and services, with private sector
activities being accepted. Until recently, district medical officers were
expressly prohibited from promoting family planning activities or providing
in-service training in this area. Access to family planning services is
increasingly perceived as desirable, in order to ensure a better and more
effective spacing of births than is the case witb traditional methods.
More recently the Government has approved inclusion of family planning
in the revised nurse training curriculum, which would be supported under
the proposed project (para. 52).
Sector Constraints and Issues
39.       Health Issues.  The principal constraints facing KOPHP in improving
the efficiency and performance of health services are inadequate staffing
and limited management ability. Health service staffing is inadequate
for four reasons: (i) disparity between training programs and the country's
health needs; (ii) imbalance in the health manpover structure with a critical
shortage of key middle- and lower-level personnel; (iii) lack of in-service
training and technical supervision; and (iv) lack of staff with management
skills. Training programs have emphasized curative hospital-based care
rather than preventive and community health care, and the lack of practical
field experience at the health center level has left paramedical graduates
ill-equipped to cope with health problems they have to face when assigned
outside the hospital system.  The concern with maintaining the quality
of service delivery led the Government in 1975 to raise entry requirements,
to increase the duration of training, and to discontinue training of auxiliary-
level staff.  However, the consequence of this policy has been a dramatic
fall in the number of health personnel in health centers and dispensaries
and a corresponding reduction in the quality of health care.
40.       The health manpower structure is becoming increasingly top-heavy
with a critical shortage of nurses, and to a lesser extent, health technicians,
and auxiliaries. This structural imbalance resulting from the shortage
of paramedical staff could compromise the effective operation of the health
system. Projections indicate that without corrective actions the manpower
structure will continue to worsen with the ratio of nurses to doctors



- 13 -
deteriorating from 4.1:1 in the early 1980s to 3.4:1 by the year 2000,
as compared with a more appropriate ratio in excess of 10:1, if doctors
are to be employed to their full capacity. The shortfall of nurses, estimated
at 830 in 1984 or 30Z of the overall requirement, will double in the next
five years and grow to over 1,800 by 1990 and to 3,500 by 2000. The existing
nurse training school is not able to provide nurses in sufficient number
to keep pace witb population growth and with the investment in physical
facilities in the sector. As a result, the shortage of nurses in most
facilities will become acute, and the shortage of health auxiliaries and
technicians will also become severe. Under the proposed project, nurse
training capacity would be expanded and reoriented to enable nurses to
play their central role in the health system. At the same time, support
would be provided to Government to define a plan for training and development
of auxiliary-level manpower, as the shortage of auxiliaries would also
need to be carefully assessed and addressed in the framework of a longer-term
strategy of health manpower development.
41.       NOPEP lacks staff with administrative and managerial skills.
The Central Directorates cannot provide planning, programing and administrative
monitoring of services mainly because of a lack of appropriately qualified
staff. At the hospital headquarters, there are few staff with academic
training and experience in hospital administration. At the district level,
staff have not been trained to provide administrative and technical backstoppiDg
for rural health facilities and for mobile bealtb teams. In addition,
a systematic approach to technical supervision and regular in-service training
of health personnel needs to be developed to increase the quality of care.
Greater support needs to be provided to raise the technical knowledge and
skills of health workers, including auxiliaries, in public health, primary
health care, nutrition, and family planning.
42.        anaRement and Cost Containment.  The principal deficiencies
that lead to poor overall management in the sector can be swmmarized as
follows: (i) insufficient institutional capacity to plan, program and
monitor health activities, or to collect and analyze data necessary for
health system management, as well as poor coordination and task definition
among different services at all levels; (ii) lack of recognized training
programs leading to professional specialization in management and administration
of health services and integration of such personnel into the health manpower
structure; (iii) insufficient supervision and control of staff at all levels
in the performance of their tasks, leading to poor performance, low productivity
and increasing inefficiency; (iv) the absence of accounting, budget planning,
and financial management systems or cost control within health services,
notably in the major hospitals; (v) inability to ensure adequate maintenance
of buildings, vehicles, equipment, etc.; and (vi) poor performance in supply,
storage, distribution, and utilization of drugs.
43.       The inadequacy of health sector financial management and the
need for cost containment and planning have been highlighted by the recent
deterioration in the country's financial and economic situation, as it
is clear that the rapidly rising costs of both hospitals and primary health
care services will impose an increasing burden on the already constrained
Goverment budget. The Government is therefore determined to improve the
efficiency of the system by containing costs and strengthening financial
management and control as a key priority. The Government's strategy also



- 14 -
recognizes that lasting improvements in performance can only be attained
by better overall management. To improve the efficiency of financial resource
use, management and monitoring tools need to be developed, which will in
turn serve as a basis for introduction of appropriate cost recovery mechanisms
for certain types of health services. Initially, MOPHP would focus on
the major consumers of resources, the university and regional hospitals,
as the areas most likely to yield significant efficiency improvement, with
the intention of extending cost recovery to other levels of the health
system.
44.       Population Issues.   Even in times of rapid economic expansion,
higb rates of population growth and urbanization would strain the capacity
of both Government and the private sector to develop appropriate basic
infrastructure and to provide social services. In the country's present
difficult situation, such rapid growth creates an even greater burden on
the limited resources available to the public sector if the Ivory Coast
is to maintain and expand social services in line witb population growth. With
rapid economic growth unlikely to resume for several years, containment
of population and urban growth could make an important contribution over
the medium and long term to improving the welfare of the population as
a whole. Policymakers lack up-to-date and reliable demographic information
for economic and sectoral planning necessary for development of a coherent
population policy.
45.       At present the health system is unable to provide adequately
the basic elements of MCi services, a key vehicle for the delivery of family
planning services. By strengthening the capability of the system to provide
-CH services, and by supporting paramedical training and health education
in family planning, the proposed project would make an important contribution
to developing the capacity of the system to provide such services effectively
in the future.
Role of the Bank
46.       The proposed project is the first Bank operation in the health
and population sectors in the Ivory Coast. It aims to develop a policy
dialogue with the country on population and health issues and to strengthen
the institutional capacity to formulate and implement sector policies.
The longer term objectives of this strategy are to assist Government (i)
to ensure that the pace of demographic growth will be compatible with socio-
economic growth capacity; (ii) to reduce maternal, infant and child mortality
rates through improved access to basic health services, with particular
emphasis on NCH and preventive care; and (iii) to reduce malnutrition by
developing rehabilitation and prevention programs for target groups. In
health, by addressing, as a first priority, constraints related to the
output of nurses and the quality of training, and by initiating improvements
in management, the proposed project would establisb a foundation from which
to address broader sectoral issues affecting overall manpower development
patterns, access to and quality of basic health services, and efficiency
improvement. In addition, a management information system to be developed
under the pToject would generate financial and epidemiological data essential
for sector planning and service development, and would provide a basis
for evaluating the cost-effectiveness of health programs. In po.ulati&n,
the Bank's involvement in the demographic work program would help to strengthen



- 15 -
the institutional capacity to develop and utilize demographic data, and
to integrate such data into macroeconomic and sectoral planning. Data
analysis would improve knowledge of the sector and provide Government with
a sound basis for formulation of a coherent population policy.  In nutrition,
the Bank would seek to develop activities through monitoring of nutrition
status and programs of nutrition education, and through strengthening nurse
training in nutrition as part of the revised curriculum. To develop these
initiatives more fully, a second project is planned for FY89.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The proposed project has two principal elements, a health component
identified in 1981, and prepared by HOPHP. and a population data development
component that was identified in 1983 and prepared by the Ministry of Economy
and Finance. An advance of US$490,000 was granted under the PPF in September
1984 to assist project preparation. The project was appraised in November
1984, with post-appraisal undertaken jointly with UNFPA in March 1985.
Negotiations were held in Washington from July 29 to August 2, 185. The
Ivorian delegation was headed by Mr. N'Golo Coulibaly, Director of Public
Debt, CAA. Staff Appraisal Report 5636-IVC of August 29, 1985 is being
circulated separately. Supplemental project data are in Annex III, and
a map showing principal project areas and activities is attached (IBRD
18942R).
48.       The objectives of the proposed project are:  (i) to strengthen
health manpower development through expansion of nurse training capacity
to address current shortages, through implementation of a revised curriculum,
including family planning and field training, that is more responsive to
the health needs of the country, and through development of health manpower
planning capacity; (ii) to improve MOPHP management capability and efficiency
of health service delivery by strengthening: (a) the Central Directorates
through development of a management information system and improvement
in planning and operations; (b) the major hospitals through management
training, development of cost containment programs, and strengthening of
key services; and (c) basic health services through staff in-service training
and strengthening of management, supervision and evaluation; and (iii)
to improve the availability of demographic information through carrying
out a census of localities, a national population census, and a subsequent
survey of migration, as well as dissemination of census results and seminars
to assist integration of demographic data into macroeconomic and sectoral
planning.
49.       The proposed project, to be implemented over a 6-112 year period,
would include:
(1) Improvement of Manpower Development
(a) expansion of nurse training capacity by upgrading and equipping
of the existing nursing school in Treichville; building and equipping
of two new nursing schools at Bouake and Korhogo; and 42 fellowships
to ensure availability of key teaching staff required for the
new schools;



- 16 -
(b) improving the quality of nurse training through implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of the redesigned nurse training curriculum;
(c) implementation of a program of field training for nursing students
in three geographic areas linked to the schools and covering
one-third of the country; and
(d) strengthening of the planning capability of the Directorate of
Health Manpower.
(2) Strengtheninx of Management Capability of MDPHP
(a) Central Directorates: Escablishment of a Nanagement and Organization
Bureau (MOB) within MOPHP; development of a management information
system, including epidemiological monitoring; and improvement
in planning and operations of selected Directorates (Maintenance
and Pharmaceuticals);
(b) Hospitals at National and Regional Levels: Provision of training
and related technical assist-nuce to upgrade management skills
of hospital staff; development of cost control, cost-containment
and internal efficiency mechanisms; study and development of
a cost recovery system for the two CHUs and the five CERs; and
strengthening of selected hospital services; and
(c) Basic Healtb Services (located in the nurse field training areas):
Provision of in-service training, including management and adminis-
tration, of all levels of health staff in 70 peripheral health
centers; reinforcement of training through implementation of
a program of regular supervision; evaluation of health care activ-
ities, including MCR, family planning, and immunization; and
upgrading and equipping of these health centers and dispensaries.
(3) Population Data Development
(a) Implementation of a program of demographic data collection and
anallsim: Strengthening of the Directorate of Statistics to carry
out a census of localities, a general population census in 1987,
a post-enumeration survey, and a survey on migration, as well
as publication of results; and
(b) Integration of demographic data into planning activities in all
relevant ministries and dissemination of census and post-census
survey results to all levels of Government, other community leaders,
and NGOs, through seminars and follow-up studies.
(1) Improvement of Manpower Development
50.      The project would support rehabilitation, expansion, and re-equipping
of the existing nursing school in Treichville in order to maintain and
better accommodate its current annual output level of 160 nurse graduates.
The upgrading of this school would follow a design which has been revieved
by the Bank and found acceptable. The project would also finance incremental



- 17 -
operating costs for the 7reichville school including naintenance costs
for buildings and equipment. For the 1984/85 school year budgetary constraints
led the Government to reduce new enrollments by about one half. The Government
has confirmed that the school will enroll its full complement of student
rurses for the 1985/86 school year, and that it will be utilized to full
capacity throughout the project period.
51.       In order to expand the capacity for nurse training and the output
of trained nurses, the project would support the establishment of two new
nursing schools at Bouske and Korhogo, each witb a capacity for 270 students
and a combined annual output of 160 nurse graduates. These schools' output
(including Treichville) would double Ivory Coast's total output, from 160
to 320 annually. The Government confirmed that these schools would be
adequately staffed and used to full capacity (Section 3.04 of the Loan
Agreement). The project would finance 36 two-year fellowships for schools
in Dakar (Senegal) and Yaounde (Cameroon) to train incumbents for each
of the professional positions required to staff botb schools. Six additional
fellowships would be provided for nurse instructors who would eventually
replace expatriate staff at the Treichville school. The award of fellowshipi
and the completion of prerequisite practical experience is being phased
to meet the staffing needs of the schools as they build up to full capacity.
52.       In order to enhance the quality of basic training, the project
would implement an improved curriculum, revised during project preparation.
This new curriculum was developed to fill major gaps in the teaching content
and to remedy the lack of prior exposure of students to field work during
basic training. Specifically, the revised curriculum would strengthen
training in public health management, administration of primary care, and
maternal and child health care, including nutrition, family planning and
health education. It gives greater emphasis to preventive and public health
measures and would prepare nurses to be effective agents of change within
the community. The project would also strengthen the quality of nurse
training by equipping the schools with pedagogical materials and would
improve production of such materials. The project would provide 7.5 months
of technical assistance to belp the Sub-Directorate of Medical and Paramedical
Training to coordinate the production of materials among the three schools.
The curriculum also includes field training of about ten weeks duration
which would take place in 11 medical districts located in three geographic
areas around the schools. Implementation of all field training activities
would be phased according to school openings and student intakes. The
project would support the implementation of this program by providing student
housing and transportation, support to training of nurse tutors at the
medical district level, and by strengthening supervision of field training
activities. A regional management and training coordinator would be appointed
for eacb of the three zones covered by the project (para. 59).
53.       The project would provide technical assistance (7.5 months) and
training of staff to strengthen the planning capacity of the Directorate
of Bealth Manpower. which would: (a) assist in coordinating and overseeing
the effective implementation of the nurse training programs; (b) establish
and implement a monitoring and evaluation system, including epidemiological
surveys, which would facilitate ongoing improvement of curricula and training
programs; and (c) elaborate a health auxiliary manpower plan based on data
provided from the management information system to be established under



- 18 -
the project (para. 55) and on a review of the role and functions of health
auxiliaries and community workers.  NOPUP would study the functions and
long-term role of auxiliary health workers and submit to the Bank for comment
by June 30, 1988, a plan for their long-term utilization and training (Section
3.05 of the Loan Agreement).
(2) Strenztbeningt of Management Capacity of HOPBP
54.       Central Directorates.  A Management and Organization Bureau (MOB)
would be established witbin MOPEP, reporting to the Minister of Health,
and responsible for defining priority areas for efficiency improvement,
for developing appropriate programs, and for assisting the Directorates
in implementing these programs and monitoring progress. The Bureau would
have a professional staff of seven (three expatriate experts in health/hospital
management, wbo would be provided under existing French bilateral assistance,
and four Ivorians), and would receive 7.5 months of additional technical
assistance in support of program implementation. It would serve as a central
repository for collection and analysis of management information. Given
the central role of this Bureau in the development of management activities.
and the need to ensure that it is fully oper8tional at the beginning of
the implementation period, establishment and adequate staffing of the Bureau
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the Loan
Agreement).
55.       The project would provide technical assistance (13 months) to
assist MOPEP in developing a basic management information system (MIS). This
vould be of particular importance for the Financial Directorate in obtaining
and utilizing data necessary for establishment of accounting and financial
control systems, and for the Directorate of Health Manpower in better planning
and managing the health system's human resources. The MIS would also include
the collection and analysis of epidemiological data in the project areas,
which would provide a basis for evaluating the performance of health services
under the project. This epidemiological monitoring would be carried out
by MOPHP-s Directorate of Public Health with technical support from the
National Institute of Public Health. The MOB would study management information
requirements for HOPHP (including hospitals) and develop a methodology
for processing and analyzing this information. A detailed plan for establish-
ment of the MIS would be submitted to the Bank for approval by April 30,
1986 and the technical specifications of computer requirements for the
MIS would be submitted to the Bank for approval by November 30, 1986 (Section
3.07(b) of the Loan Agreement).
56.       Assistance to MOPHP's Directorate of Maintenance and Equipment
would be provided to support development of a maintenance system for buildings
and equipment and a longer term maintenance policy, as well as to supervise
ongoing programs. Technical assistance (four months) would be provided
to develop specific maintenance programs. Training of six months duration
for twelve staff of the Directorate would be provided to strengthen its
capacity to carry out and supervise the programs. The project would also
provide technical assistance (8.5 months) to support measures to improve
the performance of the Central Pharmacy aimed at reducing costs and improving
efficiency. A diagnostic study of the Pharmacy's procurement practices
and stock management procedures would be carried out under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, which would identify present deficiencies and propose



- 19 -
remedies. This study, along vith the proposed remedies, would be submitted
to the Bank for review by December 31, 1986 (Section 3.07(c)(A) of the
Loan Agreement). Consultative seminars involving key medical persoonel
would be organized in order to define a list of essential drugs, which
would help to reduce unnecessary purchases and improve the utilization
of funds available to the Pharmacy.
57.       Hospital Mana2ement.  The project would support the establishment
of a professional specialization in health management for nurses by providing
7 months of technical assistance, pedagogical support and equipment to
help train about 50 nurse supervisors. Through the Ivory Coast's existing
bilateral technical assistance arrangements vith France, two experts would
provide additional technical support to this program. This category of
health personnel would be recognized and given appropriate administrative
status by December 31. 1986 (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement). The project
would also provide short-term technical assistance (eight months) for management
training, eleven three-year overseas fellowships in hospital administration
and financial management (three additional fellowships would be provided
by France), and six overseas fellowships in public health of six-months'
duration for two medical officers from each of the three field training
areas. This training would be followed by three-month assignments in hospitals
in the Ivory Coast for specialists in hospital administration and six-month
assignments within the MOB for specialists in financial management.
58.       To improve financial management and cost control in the most
important hospitals, the project would provide technical assistance (seven
months) and training to support the establishment of basic accounting systems,
data collection, and development of internal control procedures in close
liaison with MOPEP's Financial Directorate and the MOB. With the help
of improved financial information generated by the HIS, MOPHP would study
alternative cost recovery options and submit the results of the study to
the Bank for review by June 30, 1987. It would subsequently submit an
action plan for establishment of a health cost recovery system to the Bank
by December 31, 1987 (Section 3.07(c)(B) and (C) of the Loan Agreement).
In addition, the project would support measures to strengthen key hospital
support services. Hospital kitchens would be renovated and re-equipped,
and technical assistance (three months) would be provided to define and
supervise implementation of programs to improve services. Hygiene is expected
to be improved through more efficient cleaning services, development of
hygiene standards, and appropriate measures of disinfection and steriliza-
tion. Hospital pharmacies are expected to benefit from improvements in
the management of the Central Pharmacy, and would at the same time be supported
in undertaking efforts to improve storage, distribution, and utilization
of medicines. In-service training would be provided for the heads of these
services through the MOB.
59.       Basic Health Services. To develop a body of experience in managing
basic health facilities and programs, the proposed project would support
HOPEP in strengthening in-service training and supervision of health center
staff, which would serve as a first step in developing a model for the
delivery of basic health care throughout the country and for providing
appropriate training and supervision for front-line health workers. The
project would focus on the 70 health centers located in the field training
areas (para. 52), which would provide basic health care, including ante-



- 20 -
and post-natal care, immunization, as well as advice to mothers on weaning
practices, birth spacing, and nutrition. These activities would be integrated
into a national five-year project supported by UNICEF and into a Public
Health project, supported by a Belgian Technical Cooperation program in
the Korbogo training area. The project would strengthen the management
effectiveness and performance of basic health services through: (i) in-service
training of all health staff working in these 70 health centers, including
training in health facility management and administration; (ii) provision
of minor building renovation and equipment required for the functionin
of these health centers; and (iii) a program of regular supervision and
evaluation of the effectiveness of nurse training and management of MCK
services. These evaluations would be carried out by the MOB and the Directorate
of Health Manpower under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and
the results would be submitted to the Bank for review by December 31, 1987
for the Treichville area and by December 31, 1989 for the Bouake area,
on the basis of which appropriate improvements in training and supervision
would be made (Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement). To ensure the availability
of managerial support for nurse field training programs and for improving
basic health services at these centers, a regional management and training
coordinator would be appointed in each of the three project zones and provided
with an appropriate operating budget (Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement).
(3) Population Data Development
60.       To provide adequate and up-to-date information on population
growth and demographic trends as a basis for sectoral planning and development
of population policies, a program of demographic data collection, analysis
and dissemination would be carried out. Its principal elements would be
a census of localities, a population census, a post-census survey to check
coverage and to collect mortality and fertility data, a migration survey,
and seminars to disseminate the results and to facilitate integration of
demographic data into the planning process. The census of localities would
consist of identification, mapping, and creation of a descriptive file
of every inhabited site in the country. The population census would take
place over a two-week period in March 1987, and there would be a pilot
census in March 1986 to test census questionnaires, training and zdministrative
arrangements, and data processing procedures. Following the census, there
would be a migration survey to be designed during census preparation.
61.       To ensure smooth and timely implementation of all phases of the
work program, the Government would submit to the Bank by January 31, 1986.
a Haster Plan of census and survey activities to be undertaken during the
project period. The Master Plan would include a timetable of activities,
design and implementation of a phased training program, the proposed question-
naires, and an outline of the methodology for the census of localities,
the national population census, the post-census survey, and the migration
survey, as well as arrangements for processing and analysis of census data.
Bank approval of this Master Plan would be a condition of disbursement
for census activities under the loan (Schedule 1, para. 2(b) of the Loan
Agreement). The Government would submit to the Bank an updated version
of the Master Plan by December 31 of each year, and provide quarterly progress
reports on census activities already undertaken (Section 3.09(a) of the
Loan Agreement). Bank approval of the plan for the migration survey would
be a condition of disbursement for this category of expenditures under



- 21 -
the loan (Schedule 1, para. 2(b) of the Loan Agreement). The Government
also agreed to make available to the Bank Lle preliminary official results
of the census by October 1987 and full results of the census and its attendant
studies as soon as these become available. In addition, folloving completion
of the census, the Government would continue to provide adequate staff
and budgetary resources to maintain census and survey records and to update
annually the files of localities (Section 3.09(a) and (b) of the Loan Agree-
ment).
Proiect Cost and Financing
62.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$29.7 million
equivalent, including customs duties and taxes of US$4.8 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$11.5 million equivalent, or 391
of total project costs. Physical and price contingencies account for 24%
of project base cost or 19Z of project total cost, with price contingencies
based on the following rates: 51 in 1985, 7.5Z in 1986, and 8X in 1987-90
for both local and international costs. A Bank loan of US$22.2 million
would finance a11 foreign costs (except for US$0.2 million of technical
assistance and training to be financed by USAID and provided by the U.S. Bureau
of the Census) and US$10.9 million (or 601) of local costs. Government
wouid contribute US$7.3 million. The Bsnk's high contribution to the project
(89Z of net-of-tax costs) is an appropriate response to assisting the Ivory
Coast to pursue priority social programs, notwithstanding the country's
present financial difficulties. As appraised, the health component would
generate an annual increment in recurrent cost by the end of the project
of CFAF 762 million (US$1.6 million equivalent) in current prices, or an
increment of 0.71 of the projected recurrent health budget, whicb is considered
well within the financial capabilities of the Government. The proposed
financing plan would facilitate a gradual assumption on the part of the
Government of the additional recurrent cost burden. IBRD would finance
these costs on a declining percentage basis such that by the end of the
project the Government would finance these costs in their entirety.
63.       Government would channel its contribution to the healtb component
through a Project Account opened at the Caisse Autonome dtAmortissement
(CM), and would deposit in this account CFAF 75 million as a condition
of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the Loan Agreement). At effective-
ness, the Borrower would request the Bank to deposit into separate Special
Accounts at the same institution a total of CFAF 490 million (US$1.0 million
equivalent, including US$0.6 million for the healtn component and US$0.4
million equivalent for the demographic component). These initial contributions
represent three months Bank-financed project costs, taxes included.
64.       In addition, and not included in the above project costs, France
would provide three experts for the MOB, two experts for the nurse training
program in health management, and three public health experts as regional
coordinators, in the framework of its existing bilateral program in the
health sector. It would also continue to provide a demographer in the
Directorate of Statistics. UNFPA has approved a contribution of US$500,000
to the program, largely for funding of pre-project activities associated
with preparation of the census of localities. The United Nations Economic
Commission for Africa (UNECA) would also provide a regular schedule of



- 22 -
short-term technical assistance for planning and supervision during project
implementation.
Proiect Implementation and Administration
A. Health
65.       Line Directorates of MOPHP would be responsible for project
implementation. A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) has been established,
cbaired by the cabinet secretary of HOPHP, who bas also been given responsi-
bility as project coordinator. The PCC includes representatives from principal
NOPBP Directorates, the Ministries of Economy and Finance, and Public Works,
the DCGTX, and the National Institute of Public Health. To assist the
project coordinator in day-to-day project administration, a Project Office
(PO) has been established, which includes a full-time project
administrator/accountant, a coordinator of nurse training programs, and
a management coordinator, as well as support staff. The costs of approved
full-time staff and operating expenditures of the PO would be supported
under the project. The project would also provide 15 months of technical
assistance to help the PO in supervising and evaluating the training and
management components.
66.        The DCGTX, a central organization under the Presidency responsible
for managing and executing, on behalf of technical ministries, all civil
works contracts with a value above ClAF 700 million (US$1.4 million equivalent),
would undertake supervision of construction and contract administration
for the three schools on behalf of MOPHP. DCGTX is a vell staffed and
competent organization vith a proven record in this type of work. Sites
for the three nursing schools have already been identified and surveyed
and are appropriate. The availability of land for minor health center
upgrading is not expected to cause any difficulties.
67.       Technical Assistance and Fellovships.  To the greatest extent
possible, the project would rely on Ivorian expertise for implementation
of the various project components. Certain skills, however, are in short
supply, and the project would finance the costs of about 7.5 years of advisory
services. The project would also finance 120 years of fellowships, comprising
42 two-year fellowships for nurse trainers, 11 three-year fellowships in
management and administration, and 6 six-month fellowships in public healtb
for two medical officers from each project zone. Consultants would be
selected in accordance with Bank guidelines and would be employed under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Candidates for fellowships
would be selected following procedures acceptable to the Bank.
B. Population Data Develonment
68.       The population data development program would be carried out
by a Census Bureau to be established within the Directorate of Statistics
of NS. The Census Bureau, which would be under the overall supervision
of an interministerial National Census Committee, would contain a central
office, where the Census Director and Census Operation Director would be
located, and several technical sections in charge of Cartography, Data
Collection, Data Processing, Printing, Publicacion and Coding, Arcbives,



- 23 -
and Finance and Personnel. To assist the Census Bureau at key stages of
project implementation, short-term technical assistance would be provided
by UNFPA, UNECA, and by USAID, through the U.S. Bureau of the Census.
USAID would also fund training in data processing up to expert level for
a staff m2nber in the Directorate of Statistics. Establishment and adequate
staffing of the Census Bureau would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 5.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
69.       Status of Preparation.  For the healtb component, the Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) has been established and key staff have been
appointed to the Project Office. Sites for the three nursing schools have
been acquired and surveyed. Architectural consultants for the Treichville
and Bouake schools have been appointed an6i bidding documents for these
schools are expected to be available on schedule by the end of December
1985. Architects for the Korhogo school would be selected by December
1986 in accordance witb the implementation schedule and on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Selection and placement of students for overseas
fellovships beginning in SeptemberlOctober 1985 has already begun, and
the in-service training program for staff of the Treichville rield training
area is expected to begin in September 1985. Appointment of key staff
for the MOB is expected to be completed by December 1985. For the population
data development component, most of the essential staff are already employed
vithin the Directorate of Statistics. UNPTA has approved financing of
pre-project activities in 1985, and cartographic work for the census of
localities has already begun.
Procurement and Disbursement
70.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the accompanying
table. Contracts for construction, furniture, equipment, materials, and
vehicles would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines, except that: (a) contracts
for minor upgrading vorks at the 70 health centers (total value estimated
at US$1.0 million equivalent) would be negotiated by MOPBP"s Directorate
of Naintenance aud Equipment with small contracting firms operating in
the vicinity of the health centers, according to procedures acceptable
to the Bank; (b) contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles costing
less than US$75,000 equivalent (total value estimated at US$1.6 million
equivalent) would be awarded following local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank; and (c) furniture and equipment costing less than
US$10,000 (estimated total value US$200,000) would be procured through
prudent shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. Architectural designs,
draft tender documents, and master lists of furniture, equipment and materials,
and vehicles, would be revieved by the Bank. Items would be grouped to
the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk
procurement. Construction contracts costing more than US$500,000, and
furniture, equipment, vehicles, and materials contracts costing more than
US$75,000 would be subject to Bank review prior to award. This is expected
to result in coverage of about 9OZ by value of the total estimated value
of civil works contracts, and about 75% of goods contracts under the project.



- 24 -
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procuremmnt Method    Total Cost            Total Cost
Project Ylement         ICB   LCD  Other  N/A  Net of Taxes Taxes Including Tames
Civil Works            7.3          1.0    -       8.3        2.9        11.2
(7.3)       (1.0)   -      (8.3)       (-)        (8.3)
Furniture, Equipment,
Material             1.9   1.0   0.2    -        3.1        1.3         4.4
(1.9) (1.0) (0.2)   -       (3.1)      (-)        (3.1)
Vehicles                -    0.6    -      -       0.6        0.2         0.8
-   (0.6)   -     -       (0.6)      (-)        (0.6)
Technical Assistance,
Fellowships           -       -   1.9    -       1.9         -          1.9
_      -  (1.7)   -       (1.7)       _          (1.7)
Architectural/
Engineering Fees     0.3      -    -     -       0.3         -          0.3
(0.3)    -    -     -      (0.3)        -         (0.3)
Training                 -      -   1.1    -        1.1        -          1.1
-      -  (1.1)   -       (1.1)       -          (1.1)
Project Preparation
Facility              -       -    -    0.5      0.5         -          0.5
-  -    -   (0.5)    (0.5)     -         (0.5)
Census Activities       -       -    -    3.9      3.9        0.2         4.1
-      -    -   (3.5)    (3.5)       (-)        (3.5)
Migration Study         -       -    -    0.5       0.5       0.1         0.6
-  -    -   (0.5)    (0.5)    (-)        (0.5)
Operating Costs         -       -    -    4.7      4.7        0.1         4.8
-   (2.6)    (2.6)       (-)        (2.6)
Total                   9.5   1.6   4.2   9.6     24.9        4.8        29.7
(9.5) (1.6) (4.0) (7.1)   (22.2)       C-)       (22.2)
Mote: Figures In parentheses are the respective amounts finaneed by IBiD
including contingencies.
71.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over a six-and-one-half year
period. This is somewbat shorter than the average disbursement period
for loans in the Ivory Coast but is varranted in this case as major project
components (school construction, census activities) are expected to be
completed in the early years of the project. Disbursements vould cover
actual expenditures as follows:
-    lOOX of consultants' services, fellowships and training;
-    75Z of civil works, equipment, furniture, materials, and vehicles;
-     0OZ of architectural fees, census activities;
-    85% of the migration survey;
-    85Z declining to 30X of operating costs (50% of total operating
costs).
Disbursement arrangements include provision for retroactive financing of
eligible expenditures incurred after July 1, 1985, up to a ceiling of US$300,000



- 25 -
for healtb activities, and up to a ceiling of US$250,000 for demographic
activities. Claims for expenditures against contracts, purchase orders,
or fellowships and training programs of less than US$20,000 equivalent
for civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles and materials, consultants'
and architectural services, fellowships and training, and all claims for
census activities, the migration survey, and operating costs would be submitted
under statements of expenditure. All other claims would be fully documented.
Special accounts would be established to channel Bank financing (para. 63).
72.       NOPHP and the Directorate of Statistics would maintain records
consistent with sound accounting practices, and project accounts would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; audit reports
would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end
of the Government's financial year. The project implementing agencies
would submit quarterly progress reports to the Bank detailing the advancement
of work under each component of the project.
Benefits and Risks
73.       The proposed project would have the following principal benefits.
Nurse output capacity would be expanded and the quality of nurse training
would be significantly enhanced. However, even with this doubling of capacity,
the deficit of nurses would remain-, but would be reduced from about 70Z
to about 30Z of estimated requirements. The managerial/supervisory and
technical support capability of MOPHP would be strengthened in the Central
Directorates, in the seven most important hospitals in the country, and
in one-third of all medical districts. NOPHP's planning and management
capacity would be improved through establishment of a management information
system.
74.       The capabilities of the Directorate of Statistics in population
data collection would be strengthened through the experience acquired in
the course of the census program. The data base for macroeconomic planning,
would be substantially improved, and an up-to-date population and cartographic
sampling frame would become available. Population trends as revealed in
the census results would have an impact on the awareness of population
issues in the country and on subsequent readiness to formulate and implement
appropriate population policies.
75.       In addition, the proposed project would make a substantial contri-
bution to institution-building both within HOPEP and within the Directorate
of Statistics. The Management and Organization Bureau would provide an
institutional setting within whicb to address the full range of management
issues, and would facilitate active participation and involvement of all
Directorates in improving performance. Coordination, task definition,
and commnnication among different health services would also be enhanced.
76.       The proposed project is subject to the risks associated with
a first project in the sector, and the relative inexperience of the project
executing agencies. The implementation risk has been reduced by (a) entrusting
management and supervision of the most costly component-construction of
schools-to an experienced organization, the DCGTX; and (b) establishing
a Project Office and a Management and Organization Bureau within MOPEP
for development and follow-up of management activities that would be supported



- 26 -
by skilled staff, and by technical assistance for supervision and evaluation
of each project component. For the population data development component,
census and survey vork of the kind included in the program is routinely
undertaken by country statistical offices in all parts of the world. Where
the methodology has new or ezperimental elements, as in the scope of the
cartography or in the design of the migration survey, full advice and evaluation
has been or would be sought from experts in the field. The senior staff
of the Directorate of Statistics have considerable recent experience in
demographic and other data collection (including the Bank-supported Living
Standards Measurement Survey which has just begun field operations) and
have demonstrated their ability to collect good-quality data in an efficient
manner. In addition, other Government Ministries are eager for the census
and survey data to be collected, and vould provide full assistance and
collaboration at every stage. As a result, the organizational risks associated
with the component are expected to be manageable.
PART V - LZGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORIm
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast
and the Bank, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank,
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions
of the proposed project are listed in Section IIi of Annex III. Special
conditions of loan effectiveness are the opening of a project account and
payment of an initial deposit of CYAF 75 million, and establishment mad
satisfactory staffing of the Nanagement and Organization Bureau in HOPEP
and of the Census Bureau in the Directorate of Statistics.
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply vith the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RZCONNENDATION
79.       I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 30, 1985



-27 -                                      Annex 1
T A B L   S -A                              Page  1 of  7
IwOR" COAT            - S00L I0     T    DATA INIRT
ivoRY COAST                           150   R03  HICNR  AKARI)
NOB? coDE RaEsC   ICTINTIMATE) lb
REET             NIBLE INC              NIFDOLE D60H
awaib    aS7Oth LSET&ITEL         ARIC S. OF SMARA   M. AMICA A MID AB?
S (ThEBs sq. w)
TOTAL                             222.1       322.5       322.5
ACEICULTURAL                       56.1        57.1       69.7
OCME  C         (O)                    ..          ..       710.0             1063.1                   1134.9
C cuirto a Cer
CKILoCEm  Of OIL EwUIALET)         50.0       169.0      119.0             531.5                     623.9
ywun esu  unCsnc
POPULATIOC.NIB-IEAR (CTOUSAIDS)   3460.0     5000.0     $472.0
URBA  rOPULATION CR O TOTAL)      19.3        27.6       44.1               32.0                     49.0
PULATION POECJrCIICS
POULATION IN TEAR 2000 CHILL)                           17.3
STATICOUAY POPUTIO1N (KILL)                             47.0
POPULATION HOIWITUO                                      2.0
IPOPULATION BEHIT
FM sq. am.                       10.7        15.5       29.4               65.1                     37.8
PER SQ. M. Al. LAND              61.7        86.7      130.3              124.1                    470.1
voULnnToN As STUICIUR CZ)
0-14 ns5                        43.7        42.a       44.7               45.6                     43.5
15-64  Es                        53.6        54.9       53.2               51.3                     53.0
65 AMD AWE                        2.6         2.1        2.0                2.7                      3.3
POAIION CR033 RATE (I)
TOTAL                             2.1         3.7 Ic     4.9 /c             2.9                      2.6
URMAN                             6.0         7.3        8.3                5.1                      6.4
CUBE BIrTH RATE (PU SWUS)          42.8        44.2       45.7               47.0                     40.0
CRUDE MATD RATE (PER NDCUS)        23.7        20.3       14.2               15.0                     11.5
CROSS EEPRCCUCTIOC  RATE            3.2         3.2        3.4                3.2                      2.6
FAULY PLANIIC
ACCFiORC. AIIIUAL CTUBS)          ..
Sst CZ OP HAE  Wo )               ..          ..         3.                 6.4                     21.4
Ian oF FOOD PM. PER CATA
(1969-71-100)                      99.0       97.0       111.0              U.9                      95.1
PMCAPITA SUQPLY oF
CALORS (I of EquUET             102.0       116.0      106.0               91.5                   U11.2
PRTEINS CGRLNS PI  DAT)          49.0        59.0       54.0               51.6                     77.8
OF IXCH A0 DIAL AM PULSE        25.0        16.0       16.0               Ib.5                     17.8
CHILD (ACES 1-4) BEAM  RaTE        41.7        32.3       20.0               16.6                     12.3
LIE ErCT. AT  Il (TEAKS)           41.5        45.9       51.5               52.0                     57.3
IVAr MeTET. UZ (PR TINUS)         172.5       146.5      121.0              10J.                     96.8
ACCzSS TO SAN HATER COPS)
TOTAL                             ..          ..         5.9               42.4                     67.2
URBA                              ..          ..        51.0               67.5                     93.4
RURL                              ..          ..        75.0               35.                     45.8
ACCESS TO CrET DISPOSAL
CZ OV POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          5.0       25.0 /f            26.9                     45.9
RB                                ..         23.0       33.0 W             57.7                     63.0
RUES                              ..          ..        22.0 If           20.7                     2B.6
POPULAICE PEES PRTICIAN         2190.0    1400.0           ..             11791.7                  4331.0
POP. Prl HURSIUC                 2920.0 is   2660.0 lb     ..              2459.l                   1065.0
POP. PR IOSrT1AL BD
TOTAL                           680.0       790.0        ..               961.1                    621.6
URBA                              ..        90.0        ..               363.8                    545.0
RURAL                             ..       1330.0        ..             4371.9                   2511.3
ADaSSIOIS PE  OSPIlTAL -            ..          ..         ..                27.2                     25.7
ANERASE SIZE OP UCUZNI.LD
TSO                               ..          ..         .                   ..
URBAN                             3.4 /       ...
RURAL                             ..          ..
AVERAE Ho. OV PERSUlS/ROC
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URAS                     1. ft                  ...
ma                                ..          ..         .                   ..
TOTA                              1.01n       ..         .                   ..
URBAN                             0.7f        ..
Runt                              ..          ..



- 28 -                                    Annex 1
T A    L I 34                             Page  2  of  7
Iven? CO"1T            - SOCIAL IKICA     DATA ST E
1101?  -048?                        RIMEUIIC  6361 (SEZOHUS AVJ131) A
N03?                     (NMI  EXCEPT "UTIIAW9)
i1oLb      Iwat  ESTNATELk        AFRICA S. OF S13AN     A. A3RI4 A MID HART
ADJUSTED ILNUUN   RATIOS
PRIIUzt  TOTAL                   b.0        A3.0        76.0              95.7                     S.W
MALE                   48.0       S0.0        92.0              100.0                    103.I
rsh                    24.0       45.0        40.0              33.2                      75.2
SUCONDAXTt OTAL                   2.0         9.0        20.0              17.3                     *2.9
hALE                    4.0        14.0       23.0 /            25.0                      50.9
*snu                    1.0        4.0        11.0               14.3                     34.4
VOCATIONAL (2 oF SIcIDA)           12.7         7.3        13.4  I            5.9                     10.0
PUPIL-TEACRU RATIO
PRNAI.                           41.0        45.0        39.0 /I           41.1                     29.7
SECNDR3                           .-         21.0         ..               25.5                     l3.
~*ssucu   CAStI00UA    FMl          3.3        11.3        14.4 /a           20.8                     17.3
UDIO UEIVC/VHOUSAND For            15.9        15.0       110.1             107.8                    I35.9
TV hEIVuu/THOUSAND NoW              0.4         4.4       38.5               208                      51.2
inusvwA  (,UAILY CNaL
IuEln1ST) cIRCULATION
Pn TUS*l   POrUIATHIO              2.3         3i         7.7               13.4                     37.2
CLUE  ANA ATUMAwCAPrTA              ..          2.0  a     0.9 J1             0.4                      2.4
TOrAL LA1I FOSE (To Us)          1838.0      264.01    4410.0
ruas (rmcurl                     46.2        42.7       40.5               34.2                     I1.o
ACECULTnU  (rC1)                 U.o         u.0        790A               54.5                     42.
IzUMuV (P"ECET)                   2.0         3.0        4.0 713.3                                 27.9
PARicIPATIOU UTE (sczbsHT)
TOAL                             53.7        53.2       43.7               34.8                     26.2
KALE                             58.4        59.3       54.0               *7.1                     46.2
FEwls                            49.1        46.7       41.7               27.2                      5.8
rCOIOIIC DEP=UfC RATIO              0.9         0.3         1.0               1.3                      1.8
PRET 0r PnnAT Dm0053
RECEIVED n
aHiST 5S or HaUSEROLDS           30.9
31s5? 20 0   _US                51.8         ...
LEES? 205 o0 II.USUNLI            G.A
LOWSS 40Z or      1E.5 ..u..  .1..
urn -
LmL CUSS      CAPrTA)
03343                             ..        C..        274.0              590.7                    224.3
L                                 ..          ..        96.0              275.3                    134.0
esnm  aEuxTM iovun DmCUE
LEVEL CUSS PR CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..       437.0 Is           545.4                    431.5
WEAL                              ..          ..       244.0 7;           201.1                    326.0
insTAnM PO. BELOW ASOSUM
PORM  ImC0  LmL CE)
man                               ........
USUAL                             ..          ..         ..                 ..                      29.
NOT AVAILABLE
rOT APPLICABLE
11 O T l! C
/a  The group tvere for ecb ilacSoor are mopulatS _lgbted aritmetic meaw.  CoVerg of COeeitrie
amg the indicaLors doepds oan ivallabilty of data and Is not aifoiu.
/b  HUlion othervma noted. 'Data for 980" refer to an year between 1959 and 1961; loat for 1970" beten
1969 and 1971; and data for _s*t Recent Eatlae" betuXma 1931 ead 1933.
/C  De to ligtntinn popetai.. 3roetb rat. 1. higher thb rate of ntural Increase; /d 1977; /a 1980; /f
1976;  j 1963; /b Coaement personnl only'  /j African populatlon in the clty oTUnuake ony. for
1957-59; /j 195417. Afrlc  poputlaon in urban centers of Abeguroe  Agbhoville. Dnbotre  ad We
only. refer to bonehold.; Ik 1962; /: 1979;  a 1978;      197V2.
-lll. 1905



-  29  -                                       Annex  1
Page  3 of 7
DEMMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOR5S
Nouts Although the data re dran ftrom ourcas  mgnryjajdgd them  -o  uthonttive and rdiable. it should also be nowd that they may not be iquntonally
compurbl b secuue of the lack of standardized definitions and coeemp used by diffent counuia iln coUting the dai The ndta ae. onet   usful to  i
decribe ordem of nugustude. indicate treds and chamctene certain mjor diArne betwen omsstna.
The rference grps are I II the ami country group of the subject counlry and (2) a country group with somewhat higher avege income than the country
group of the subject country texcept tar -High Income Oil Expornen group whee 'Middle Income.North Africa and Middle Eat' is choen because of stronger
sao-culturl finitiesl. tn the reference group data the averags are p.opulation weighted afmtmesc nte  aor each indicator and shown only when mnajonmy
of sI eounrieF in a group has data for tit indiator. Since thecoverag ofcountries among the indlctor depends on the availabity ofdata and is not uniform.
cauiuon must be exercieed in relating averges o one indmctor to another. These avgu are only useful in companag the value ofmne indicator at a time among
the counitry xnd reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Crude  eth Rare (pertheusnd)-Numberoflive births in the year
Teal-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;   per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960 1970 and 1913 data.                                          Crude Deat Rate (per tkossud)-Number of deaths in the year
Agrpicwau-Estimate or agricultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanendy for crops. pastures market and kitchen gardens or to   Grass Reprodatft Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-spcrific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-ONP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World      Feay Plaaaiug-Accepeors, Annua fthonaaadrj-Annual num-
Bank .4 as (198143 basis); 1983 data.                             ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of.national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning progam.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       Fnly Plaimng-Use-rs (percent ofawrkd iiwsen)-The percen-
petioleum. natural ps and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal eec-     tage or narried ommen of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilogams of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  wilose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
Toed Pepbpariem, AMid-Ywr (thr saud)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data. -.--.*.                                                                            *       -     .-* -
and99at-dirof odiusim Per Cata (I 99-91 - 100)-Index of per
Urbanr Popuwies  (pewter tof etal)-Ratio of urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities Production
population; differesi definitions of urban areas may aSecct compar-  exdudes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data amc.ng countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      include primary commodities (eg. sugarcane instead of sugrx
Pepulatior Projeclions                                            which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in vear 3OU-Thc projection of population for 2000.     exduded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separatelv. Starting with information an    vegetables. fruits. nuts. suprcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. ferEilit) rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregte production of each countnr is based
international migration in the base year 1990. these parameters   on national averacze producer price weights; 196145. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Caia Suppily .fCaloris (pecr c  freqairenurnrs)-Compuc-
Siadionarn population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies availtble in country
tlity rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(nct reproduction rate-1). In such a population. the birch rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structurc is also   food processing. and losses it distribution. Requirements vere
constanL and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal actitict
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution ofpopulation. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                        waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population .Momentuns-Is the iendency for population growth to    Pe Coa  Sapr of Protein (gran  per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net suppiv of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances,of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 gSams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
meat level from year r onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Populaion Denjity                                                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capit Prefai Supp  Fron Aninsalad Psise-Protein suppl)
Per sqkm. agrkutura lafnd-Computed as above for agricultural      of food derived from animals and pulses in grams perda): 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Popultion Age Snceure (percenfr-Children f0-14 years). work-      Child (qes 1-4) Dean Rate (per rhousandi-Number of deaths of
ing age (I 5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
PopulA in GCrh Rare (percenfl-roral-Annual growth rates of        from life tabkls 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Popation Growsh Rate (percene)-wbm'a-Annual growth rates          Life Expectancy at Rirn  (year)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing pattens of mortality for all people



- 30 -                                         Annex  1
Page 4jof 7
at the time of of iu birth were to stay the sune throughout its Iifc  PupU-trear Rdo - praary. and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 dat                                        roiled In primary and secondry leveb divided by numben of
Inf  Mortate poer _hnsx)-Number of infants who die             teacher in the corrsponding lvds.
before reaching one year of age per thouand live births In a given
year, 1960. 1970 and 19U3 daa                                  CONSUMPTION
ACeCs to So  Wow (pern   of popubton)-itlA  wiJein,d             Pas   r Cas (per rihnsd pepuhhlaaD-Passenger cars comn-
ru-TN'umber of people (total. urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seadng less thn eight persons: excludes ambul-
aces to safe waler upply (iclude  trated surface water or &     nes,r hearses and military vehics.
untreated but uncontaminated wat  such as that from protected  RA. Receiv  (per thwinepwlpahWuj-All types of recivers
borehole, sprinp and sanitary wells) as percentaes of their rupee-  for radio bro su to gerl public per thousand of population;
tive populations In an urban ar  a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be c         registration of radio set was in effect data for recent yers  ay
as being within  onable acce  of that house In rural ars       not be comparmble since most countries abolished licensing
reaornable ac    woutd imply that the housewife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionae part of the day  TVRdir (pet       hij-V receivers for brodcst
in fetching the fny's water need                               to gras public per thousad populadon: ecludes unlicenscd TV
Access to Ezerere Disprnl (pcrcens of papuledbuuJ-totai.  .,   receivers i countries and in years when registration of TV sets w
ad rual.-Number of people (total urban, and rural) aerved by
excreta disposal as perceitages of their respective populations..  NewspqW Cr _lkn (Pe tin sandpapealetajShows the aver-
Excreti disposal may include the colectdon and dispoal, with or  age rcuation of -daily  nal intert newspapeC defined as a
without treatment, of human excrem and waste-water by water-   peodic  publication devoted pnmarily to recording gener nws.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar insalationL  It is coniderd to be daily" if it appea  at lkat four times a weelk
Popaudu par Phjuide-Population divided by number of prac-      Csn     Annal Attendce per Capita per Ymrr-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medcal school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admnission  to
Pepulaion per Nusn Persaon-tpulation divided by number of      drve-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, asistant nurses,   LAOR  Rox
prctical nurses and nursing auxiliaris1  and  ralapuFaton        eal    r c (rsads-Economically active persons. in-
boulushw pane Hospasd   di-tora d e  thiar respective number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
(tosnital, urbedsvan, abind rurafl dividerldpl ndspi-e        s3tudent  etc.. covering population of all ages Definitions in
hospital beds available in public and private. geneal andspcaie vaiuconrsaentcmaab;190170nd98dt.
hospitals and rehabilition centers. Hospitals are establints   vanous countries an  not comparAtes 1960, 1970 nd 1983 ta
permanendy staffed by at least one physicia  Esuablishments prov-  F   (percingt-Fenale labor force as percetge of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospials  force.
howevetr.indudchealthandmedicalcentersnotpermanently  ffed     Aric e (percent-Labor force in farming, rorestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a  edical assistant. nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentag of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1990
which offer in-patient accommodation and -provide a limited range  data
of medical facilities.                                         InArstry (percmn-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admission par Hospital l-Total number of admissions w or       facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 dta
Particdpa t   Jktwe (pfrcmJe-ora4mlw amdfeml-Participadon
HOUSING                                                        or  tivity razes ae computed as wtaL mnae, and female labor force
Avre Sine of Howehl  (pae par hosehotd)-riel, arba,            as perntages of totaL male and female population of all ages
andraraI-A household consist of a group of individuals who share  respecely; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. Thes are based on tO's
living quarters and ther main meaLs A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates rflecting age-s  structure of the population. and
may not be induded in the household for statstca purposeL      long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources
Avere Ngmber of Perso  per Roome-otal urban, -, rural-         Economic Depatmucy Radi-Ratio of population under 15. and
Avceage number of persons per roorm in all urban, and rural    65 and over to the workting age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelingL respectively. Dwdlings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBLI-ON
Percentage of Dwelas with Ektcericit-e ol, arban, and rJral-   Par    of Totd Dispabk lome (bakh f       cash and ad)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of toal, urban. and rural dwellinps respectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGEi GROUPS
Adjused Efobin Rauo                                            The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
P'unaiy school - towi. mnk a jfm-G           totaL ma          levels and should be interpreed with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all age at the primary evel as percentag  of  Eimted Absolute Pohry lcme' Led (USSpMr capitar-wi
respective prmary schoolage populations. While many countie    and ra-Absolute pover  income level is that income level
consider prirary school age ?, be 6-11 yeams. others do not. The  below which a nmininal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practces in the ages and durtion of school  non-food requirements is not affordabic
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Ei,,.a  Rdre Prevsy Lveroe Levd  (5 per capita)-wan
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since       and rat-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural lvel with adjustment for higher cost of
SeconEdry shool - owl, marl andfaeal-Computed as above        living in urban areas.
secondary education rquires at least four years of approved pri-  Esmaed Popuaon Belw Absolte Povrty Icme Lewd (pri-
mary instructio; provides seneral vocational. or teacher truaning  cenr)-uorba  and rral- ftcent of population (urban and rral
instrucdons for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years of age: corrspond-  who are -absolute poor.
cnce courses are gerally exduded.
Vocadinl Enrolmni (percn of secondaryj-Vocational institu-               Comprative Analysis and Data Division
ions include technical. industrial, or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Dqeprtment
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



Annex 1
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         --- ----
Pum3.tmm             *24           tlu-W3tluIl                                       .41  3.   9 11 r   - 151C  211115                                                            ag       o 
9 w     CapXd  .      72t          IVU0 24333                                                                                  -
lI_t                                                              Aual prulO rat. 32J at radtml price.
lailli mel
2i4lc3k                  at wrrmt prics                                      ktail                              Pr.II3wy                                                     Pruoitde
1971    2977    197        91n    21               ml    I1         3m        m93              2W      1311     19,a    HE       i23      l9
Grm  Iotic Prodat           &730.7                     12.0      4.3      9.9      1.9      7.7              LI    -4.0    -4.4       4.8               2.1      3.1      LI       4.1     4.0      4.1
OyCullar                  1712.2                      Li    -4.6    10.7          i       *.3              2.7    -L2    -I1.5    -5.2                 1.3     4.       4.5      4.3     0.5      4.3
ldfstr                    1123.9                     21.       9.4    19.1       1i      4.3               9.7   -1.2       2.0   -11.3                L7      4.7    32.       1.0      L.       2.0
Surtaa:g                  2523.0                      I13.1   -16.7    31.4      *.1     2.2                .0    -4.1    .4.3    -I2.L               -t.2     1.1      3.2      2.7     4.4      4.2
Pre.r.n. & Iap.htbuti      3 19.6                     11.3    3L2     -14.3    -Li    -9.1               -10.3      7.2    -3.3    20.4                2.0     2.1    -2.4       3.2     1.4      3.7
whptl                        MI3.1                      34.0     9.7      1.9t     7i      9.4              -1.7    -4.4    -3.3    -3.0                 1.4     LA       M.4     3.9      3.3      4.3
Crk   1w.tfet               1036.3                     13.4    43.o    21.1        9.11   -7.9              -9.0   -17.3   -29.1   -33.4               -S.2      2.       2.L      2.7    -3        3.1
EWtrb  f MS .W 99.5                                     11.7    -7.9      L.       2.3    13.3               1.5     L.I    -2.7       1.5               1.4     0.7    2L         2.9      .i      3.
aw3ts at WS                2431.0                      23.      21.0    24.1    -3.2        .I             .3.2    -3.    -21.9   -22.1                 L.       L.S      2.2     6.3      2.0      3.2
rin  aetac Shump             431.2                      1.9     4.L       3.1    .0.0       1.2              3.3    -1.1     4.3    -2.0                4.3    -4.1       L.'    -.4    -3.         3.2
POIIES
t; 4alF  w  .21113.200       129.5                        3     1h.4    91.0    47.4   300.0               104.3   I1.3   129.3   244.4                133.7    13.    ITl.0  I39.3   223.3 5      22.7
E.chmg. rate 13512- 3        201.3                     239.l   245.t    2.6   2.7 1   231.3                271.7   323R.   333.1   40.0                4*L.    46.    432.0   429.0    40.0   31.0
S5U  of W  at P             :r_t Prim1%)                                      lung. must Inumi 17J
lat urnmt ricn)                                                          lot caeu t 31  primrl
9463    3w9      1975    3t43     HI       139           193l1            197011T91        1971_              931395          1915110
Ere b     tsic P.oet                  30.0   1d.0    21J 3       0.0 309.L   300.0    10.9          LI                1i                .9             -2.3               3.9
Wsculture                           39.      31.9    211.:    27.3    27.7    23.1                5.0              L.I               4.0             I4.7               t.3
2.st, 2..9    23.3    17.0    14.6    23.3    11.1                                               A3.                .1              30.4             -3.3               4.0
Srmcos                              27.1    23.1    3.8    55  33. . 352.9                        9.t             14.1               4.3             -1.3               1.5
Frod.?ta. It .hlte                  12.3    20.9    2Lo    :S0.0    2.2    32.                   2 2.t              3.t             10.4               1.2              3.1
Ca twim                               731.4    70.3    77.4    71.4    19.7    0.3                  LS               7.1               9.0             -3.31              3.
reel lanutat                          21.3    20.7    22.0    24.4    23.0    13.3                  7.3              L.3              13.4            -25.1               L.i
E  tws of W2S                         33I    35.       31       33.0    40.2    37.1                L.               4.9               4.7               1.9              2.7
lowts f Ml                           53L0     21.1    31.       42.2    3L.5     34                 7.9              5.3              12.1            -12.9              a.3
irm  hutic Sola s aL3                          32.3    23.3    2.4    23.2    ILl                   9.4              3.5             -4.3               4.?             4.3 
As a t of 93
eIC F l                               193      170    297       39D      195      1990
cK)St  1IUMeS                          Me    32.3    29.1    31.7    21.4    24.4
tet Epusgdtures                      24.3    23.7    24.1    25.7    23.1    23.3
Pilac Slp                              3.9      4..1    L.3      L        2.L      I.Z
41t3l swltrtwns                         .i      7.5     L.      It.7      L.2      4.3
Ferelep F&uKcmq lst)                   0.9      1.4    2L        8.2     5.9       IJ
D0IM3 3D31011tS                      I-70              297-7           12975-0               5             mF19l-9
W  psth lat. lUF11                     Lb               L.                6.2              -2.9              4
W  pr Capata 10         Rte ICFAI      L.0             -.2                2.1             .9                   I
MP                                     1.7              Z.0               3.7                               L S.5
uvpela  S"ous  ate                     OD.3              .4              -0.9               L3              -02
[sprt Eascitty                          .9              0.9              2.3              -3.3              1.0



- 32 -
hPl0t3mm            92t9:         had-39M.thguud)l                                  TULE bs Illt C1UB - E            MlIC                                                     rulE  0 o et 7
w ow  Cpitag        7?0           go. 193_
&=Mt                                                           Amuuuln          rit  I. U at cntant prac
14s111lg9
Iuicat br                   aw. palt icnI                                  ktcbl                              Frlrr;                                                IJuct1
ouo     1977    mo       1,    Il                  1111    Ila      1m    Imm                Iu sS             aw 1, t11 1990
EIIE00 IIW
0ir1gd1.s E.Wuls           :112.t                     21.3    IW        1.0    -4.    -11.4              -.3   1.1   -10.2    11.4                  f.0     0.5      2.9     3.0      12      5.3
igrsclmtrm,              SSl:                       39.1    19.4      9.2   *10.3   -23.3              -.5   13.3   -2L.2        1.7              .LS      -2.3     0.5     0.5      0.5     0.
hletry                   0301.9                      1.2   13.2    -7         0.L    10.53              0.       4.0     1.0    -1.5               4.0    I0.0    I0.0    30.0    30.0    I0.
NrE914sI Ito rt            3 79.3                    3I.4    10.2   13.9   -4.3          I.3            -24.3    4.7   -17.0   -I.                   3.4     0.0      0.4     5.1      3.3     4.0
F_.                       315.2                     11.0    30.3    15.       I0.    -13.5             3L        5.4   -11.4    -2.7               2.5      LI4     LS      L0       0.3     4.1
Pitraima                  314.0                      11.9    -0.3    21.0       .1     L.2             -37.3   -14.2   -17.3   -55.6              2L3      14.0    -L.     -3.1    32.0      :.2
Imm4cturd k4             334I                       11.3    22.9      0.      -5.1     1.4            -39.3    -L5    -23.5   -J0.0                2.3      4.3     3.2     4.1      5.4     Lo
l,PhI3 3.do a3900.300                                 03.0    731.     731.31    11.3   I00.             .LZ      735    1.        72.8              0.4    15.2    77.5    03.4    I9.        7.l
I_rt Ibft s398010.0                                   04.0    40.0    71.2    3.2   SO.                  94.9    04       14.0    00.9              33.0    0.9    15.2   144.5   114.1   125.5
fir  Di lr  I.d..                                    305.0   107.1    I.    9.5   300.0                   J.0    0L3      I0.     90.0              I0.9    L31      01.4    19.S    70.0    77.3
Camiitias of burcuaso IrilU                                                  AnrSp _d  Itwar  ali
lot carrot pricl                                                       (It (.11tmt Im  prmcni
1ise    139m     910M    115    390    l10        19"           196511970        1970131          I 3l9            19090            191
Gorts                       log.;   300.1    20       400.0   300.0, IrO.    300.0                0.3              3.5  I9                    1       .1              2..
41rmr ltwe                 *;.4    7e.60    7.9    AM.4    04.4    55.7    25.1                 0.3             -. I             IL0               L.7              1.0
3I4.tr.                     7.0    23.4    L3       39.s    55.0   44.3    24.1                 4.:             15.7              7.0              1.1             10.0
1t                         3SO.L   o.* 00.0 30.    10.0   30.D  I30.0   3l0.                     .3              4.4              9.5             -12.1             3.5
Fou                       13.0    16.3    30.9       9.4      9.?    10.0                      -I.7              L.5             12.3              6.2              5.
P,trol3.                    9.0     5.0       .7    11.      39.9 I   1.2    20.2               3.3              3.2             11.3            -205               L.O
13ut3igo. #I               33 1.0    701.7    454    79.0    70.4    7.0   531.4                9.1              5.9              L7             -14.5              4.b
0av  of Irad,  will                       sU  So Trm*   It1                        Skwe of trade mi
IMUaMAl  C&Atr]M *:1                     oh.lIpaq CtreaIn IV                  Captal SRIs hi Ebp.1M    IU
aIi100F TINK -al             39.     1970    1915    3919             1395    1970    3V75    3t79                35    3910    315    2
E.ports                     1194     00.9    70.0   01.4               120    11.1    34.2       11.3              L       0.2      LO      2.7
qricutrm                   84.J    09.9      5 7.9   -               11.0      7.9     02       -                0.      01.2    0L       -
l6strr  E.cl. aill         50.:    23.      20.5                     49.0 *   0.7 t     1       -                0.O     0.0    0.        -
-to                         AM14.?    03.0    31.1    81.3             14.1    14.3    21.4      4.5               l.0    0L.      1.3    tl.7
4a3 Tol bi matid



- 33-
Anex I
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii x I    [VW W"l&                                     "NS  o    WTLMmPiS-o 
W  pzr -qt                                                                                     -                    ._  _        . 
I11S        It74    am7  aml      MM     1111 t I 2                      1<      11B at"                  1*      1w1 o r w       Im 112           1e[
E"tap      of 6hf                         INLV  17a    2"".4  2OL    2I7J   SUL6  2161.2  2111.9                    21XJZM V2L Dl.N                         3111. 1  l.6  S129.2  JM1-   4L4  *017.3
lIwtsof 6           U          l          t21.6  MILS  191M; 2rL   2SL3  SSIL    2331.3  2n7.2    1              7    .J  1471.9           139L    NIS  2M.2  n7l.4 ISli2.S 2QM.0  4at
IraftgllROK I                  U           l I9.3SL   S1L7D.e   1m.r    31.1  -14L7  3Lt   23167                    3 112.3  IO1       e     IL        WU1       4  IM11s IZ.2. I329.4 lE1J.
Adja t                                    n7.s   74           J37.1   312.4   4N.1   64IJ    a3Le   357             2M.1       371. S       27.6    2S7.4    2^L        2hLS   3ZLI   31LI    SL
tra  blc WOIN                              nL  214 Z.1   114.9     MI3   4_T    SLe   67S    &8AY                      LJ  1211.2           1311.3   na.2 U1343 W.3  147ILL            rM.5   =LS
Sor"ce JW frrshrs                         -6IL&  -02.1  -11.9 -13D7.S  -W- .1 -2J.e  -IM.S  -IOU                   -315.3  -143.2          -14341  -UMI -1796.  -ITIL   -2I^2.2 -2S Le -1119J
IN  Fx    Swv. Papts?_11.   -a"   _31 7.11_L   -173NS  -IW6.5 -IS11.5  -101.9                                     -111.3  411.2            -ML 7 JL    -1*.9 -1119.2 -114? -1300.r -9ItL2
IFbrw Srr-. ftyts                        -2SLI.  -3LS    -M       -4          -N1.0  -M     -.4     5M            -m       -12.41          -2      -1147  -Mb   -132 -rb.3 -IGILI -1315
-Iwtgo III                              -S     -14.1   -9L    -162    -2e.0  -311.2  -115.4  -4L                 -M      -511.4          -02     -"      -M       -51.6  4,3  -&I.3  -Ml|.
-akw _W     ttme                       -I7.1  -2 1.A  -34.1  45S    -ML    -M.?  -%L    -4.                      -D.C   -S,4             -SlLD  -SIS.2  -SSV.4  -11.1  -2    HIN   -417.#
-Ide Frmiwtl                                -       -      2LX     20.0  111.1  131.3    7LS.       K9              I        75.6            IL@     ILO   ILS    1.I   19.0    I1,.   IM
lArrnt kec      tm                        _31L    -.,$La  -:tL    -M       1371.9 -7  1.0 -11114.4 -rsn.            -31,11  -1111. 0        -Ns.6  -41LT  -431.0  -327.4  -.3 I6N            -21'.4
n,@nt Foreg     _r                          7oo              fftd1.0 be -L  133.0    3L.e    ILO   ILr  S o 1u;6  U        G L 431             re1   IUX    IV.$   134.         M.    115o    a7.4
1t1 tosatl                                 107.2   225         NI1 7z LS ?M  6L     0.    35.4     IL        ~       131.4    311.4          417.5   S14,4   Sll.1   I9.6   1 0.6   21.9    nIlJ
Ntwr C aptal               1        1        LI    31|.3  -a1.1    3"        11.7   1114      1.6   -3.0               L    -2L        .       LO      LO  e .         La  * .          LO      LO
UN of Anw-                                  t e   -ILIe  -1u4L   -131     2n.e   61.4    SOL IP   514               64.1 .@  -1l.1          - 11,11   73L4   -1.2   J7L    St1.7   31.4  -21S I
kw          Lfd       S           u          L     4OLZ   54Z   679.2    Ml.2  -MI  -711.11_311 -rilLO                                     -II L - -INl.3 -101 .3 -1251.4 -1FL7 -1||.1 -IJ1S.6
ERtU_L rWlTAL AN IENI 421
6h t%Wm=h
Oifficial frts                             -       -      2 LO    211.1   I t.1   rJLS    ILS.    bk.              t7,    Ms                IL      ILIP    IU     t  1L,       ID    6.0    ILS,
coemat  um_                               3.4    33.4    3L       71,7    41.7    0l.3    4r.    1                 b2       AL2             i2      71S       . ILT  24    ILS    1 1.2    HLY
PC                                      252    :MI    57.6    SLY    *LS    :Lt    St.4   r L4                     WL                                     
W.e                                      -       -        -       -       .       -       -
IDA                                      1.0     La      LO      1.6     -       -       -        --                      -
rti                                     IL.2     7.S     E.7    S7. t     64    *1.6    11.5      *.7             5.7
_<-c,aeg         L                       3.7    AlI    m.4 e11.7  IGIL    LI.7   "LI  0.7                          MA      417             4nvt    W.1   "L    1011.9  IIUII  reA L1L
Ofhieal Esp credits -btwra              I2    J7.4    494    2n.1     SM         ALI    Sl.9    EJ                9.J      -                       -*          -    _         _       _ 
1S                                      2L      14I.o    37.E    ISo     S.O   IL?    41.5   7 Z1.5             [110 1           2        7JJ ZU 7   L14   24t.4    2wL     Z:LS    2ro.T   2rr S
llN rw IbIbttlral                       11.5     7.2    2t.1    S'I    ZL 21.1           10 I.t   1@.2           14A       --                      -       -           
fr.af                                  2n.0 71Z. 5  ii    n I   11.1  11LZ   91.;2 m3.7                          3Lt    IOL3             14.2   34.0  sh.3    3I            L      21 .1   "L
E.woil 041t
Idt btstmsm A  hsru                      a4 117  Jsl             1t.6  20.   32t.2  43M    SL3                   sal    sms&P  5AM22  .5 H                     v 759  NILS eLI  17.7
0:fiaal t                              St.4   35        41L2       SM.1    NO.2  1OW4   IZIM   IMr              1747   29AL              J3S.   2MIt.   NrILS  316L1   3VL    J&MS  435L
W        to                             MO   5313          nISS31.S  S_ 2111.7  2119.1      S S"I rL 9         a 3115.3  3531.1,        SSVJ 932.6  VI7  311  *rL  rn61
--shew 1    k                            41t  S  5LS  IOU   217.7  17M.0  USLB.  I4aL7   IM4                      117I.3    M1.9          IOVA.   r7.5  12ZLS  I3tL9  13141.   IMIL   171. 7
kbt Ser-sr 131
fatal r1ce  tam                          ISME   11.2   21LI   S7.1   601.5   WJ7   nZ.7   IS5                     snL      Ml              71.4  SSSLs  1431.2  r2L9  173L  1   n.1  2sru4
cftwe                                   356a    47.1 UllS  174.7   231.5   31H.6   24L           M              47b.3   SO.S             45.2.5 1.7 a3.s   sIn           Us        LSS. A7
USorser Rati                            *.1     t.3   ILI;      ; I  It 19.     Z2    2LV    IL7                SLID   27.6              Mt.    4L5    4LS    41.         Q2    35    2L7
kbtt Sw. IkU   icleng  DIFI                -       -       -                                        -L   -L   21.1  *LS nJ3 nJ35.1,   26.7
A      r w  Xt Id1 a 1vI Ian         . e             7.s     7.7 S.6          LI      L5      1.2  5.2        1      11. QL7                 Q    . IL? IL3    1.0    SM.  IM  S         .2     4
offici t                                    .3    6.9      Lb      -        -               -       --                      --                       -       -       -       -        -       _
Pri.le                                     L.5     7.6     LI      -        -       -       -_                              -_
rwa  ftut  OF mm Ines                       [Lb    IL       11.2     7.S    11.       La    ILI    ILI               r2.0     7.6            1u.7    IL9    1.1.1    ILI,   u.lI    Ql         12.2
llffadl                                   IL0    ItJ    IS.7       -        -       -       -       --                       --                      -       -       -       -        -       -
I'Mat                                      L.J    9.o      tl               -       -       -       --                      -_                       _       _       _       _        _       _
If IPF lNstrcalJ  S_qM  Ffsjdlar
2/ EIS Some
S/ pmKIo cbn*clud toCe ft         wd  MDF  o brob  I_
ft   of tk   Odt b "
atno of a
twr 1fIMP
P t rity StraU of DM bitst liottt
Prn cial _o .2tils 3 ysn                                                                           4rJ
Prinupal _w ethinr It pis                                                                          *1.4
lntwt Strel.ct of an flotaii.
lawt      hlo ftafl* 5 yow                                                                         S.2



- 34 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
Status of tank Group Operations in Ivory Coast
A. Statement of Bank Loans and Credits (as of March 31, 1985) 1/
US$ million
Loan or       Fiscal                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One credit fully disbursed                                   -     7.5
Twenty-eight loans fully disbursed                         694.1   -
1177-IVC      1976    BIDI          DFC                      8.0   -          0.85
1347-IVC      1977    Ivory Coast  Urban Development        30.0   -          2.98
1348-T-IVC    1977    Ivory Coast  Urban Development        14.0   -           1.37
1501-IVC      1978    Ivory Coast  Feeder Roads             29.0   -          4.79
1577-IVC      1978    Ivory Coast  Abidjan Sewerage II    33.0   -            8.46
1633-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast  Rubber III                7.6   -          0.03
1663-IVC      1979    CCI           Artisans                12.6   -          6.44
1698-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast  Tourism II               14.2   -          4.90
1735-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast  Forestry                 18.0   -          4.63
1777-IVC      1980    Ivory Coast  Education III            24.0   -         10.77
1827-IVC      1980    Ivory Coast  Rural Development         9.4   -          6.20
1896-IVC      1981    EECI          Power                   33.0   -         26.66
1914-IVC      1981    Ivory Coast  Highway Sector          100.0   -         34.34
2048-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast  Urban Development II   51.0   -            26.27
2059-TVC      1982    Ivory Coast  Technical Assistance   16.0   -            10.87
2130-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast  2nd Water Supply         43.0   -          27.57
2167-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast  Center West              13.0   -          10.46
2189-IVC      1982    PETROCI       Petroleum              101.5   -         59.03
2323-IVC      1983    Ivory Coast  Rubber IV                32.2   -         23.01
2496-IVC      1985    Ivory Coast  Forestry II 2/           31.3   -         31.30
Total                             1,314.9   7.50      300.93
Of which has been repaid            118.7    .15
Total now outstanding             1,196.2   7.35
Amount sold                    5.1
of which has been repaid       5.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA            1,196.2   7.35
Total Undisbursed                           300.9             300.9
1/   In addition, a $110 million loan for the Second Highway Sector Program
was signed on June 21, 1985.
2/   Not yet effective.



- 35 -
Annex 2
Pake 2 of 3
B. Statement of Regional Bank Loans and Credits to Ivory Coast
and Other West African Countries
US$ million
Loan or       Fiscal                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower      Purpose                Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1295-WAP      1976    CIMAO        Regional Clinker        49.5   -          0.00
1490-ICUV     1978    RAN          Regional Railway        23.0   -          0.00
969-WAP      1980 - BOAD          Project Preparation      -     3.0         1.94
2242-WAP      1983    BOAD         Regional Development    6.1   -            6.05
1331-RAP      1983    BOAD         Regional Development    -    14.0         14.00 3/
3/  This Credit is denominated in Special Drawing Rights.  The figures In
this table have been converted to U.S. dollars at exchange rate
prevailing at time of Credit negotiations.



- 36 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
C.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1985)
Type of               US $ '000
Year    Obligator                       Business             Loan     Equity      Total
1965    Banque Ivoirienne de            Industrial             -       204.0      204.0
Developpement Industriel        Development Bank
1978    Banque Ivoirienne de            Industrial             -       219.5      219.5
Developpement Industriel        Development Bank
1979    Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.        Textiles               -       884.7     884.7
1980    Societe Ivoirienne d'Engrais   Fertilizers        5,120.0   1,272.0   6,392.0
1980    MSO                             Flour Mill        2,900.0      406.7   3,306.7
1985    Co. des Caoutchoucs de          Rubber            2,280.0      270.0   2,550.0
Pakidie S.A.                    Plantation
Total Gross Commitments                          10,300.0   3,256.9  13,556.9
Less cancellation, sold or repaid                   320.0        -       320.0
Total Commitments now held by IFC                 9,980.0   3,256.9  13,236.9



- 37 -
Annex III
IVORY COAST
REALTH AND DEM0GRAPHIC PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:               November 1981
(b)  Preparation:                  NOPHP/NEJ
(c)  Appraisal Mission:             November 1984
(d)  Negotiations:                  July/August 1985
(e)  Planned Effectiveness Date:   January 1986
Section II     Special Implementation Actions
A PPF advance totalling US$490,000 was approved in September
1984 to assist project preparation and start-up activities.
Section III    Special Conditions
-    provision of appropriate recognition and administrative
status to nurse specialists in management by December
31, 1986 (para. 57);
-    appointment of -vgioual management and training coordi-
nators in each u,.. the project areas, and provision
of appropriate operating budgets (para. 59); and
-    provision of adequate staff and budgetary resources,
after the census period, to maintain census records
and update files of localities (para. 61).
As conditions of loan effectiveness Government would open
the project account and deposit therein its initial contribution,
and would establish and appoint appropriately qualified
staff for the Management and Organization Bureau in MOPEP
and the Census Bureau in the Directorate of Statistics.
(paras. 54 and 68).
Conditions of disbursement for the demographic component
are Bank approval of the Master Plan of census activities
and of the plan for the migration survey (para. 61).



muSvN0-u                      0moue30 ^  LAL N .  wS
J00MKI&VWAIE                    mIHMIGfjcfIfcILafS
alxm "om&hmI~s            -    EIUI4UuML 80UHMMS
'    )                                                    U    -   -A                                                                U R  M     I M 
U  __N,-    \   ,'  ----'-.. IAWDOlS ?1E
                       ,__4 ,'          l   *  >
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~FGrMOSMKM                                              & _H_   v  IVORY  CE






