Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rtepon No. 5636-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
August 29, 1985
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)1/
US$1.00        - CFAF 4902/
CFAF 1,000,000 - US$2,040
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year
January 1-December 31
ACRONYMS AND INITIALS
CHU    University Hospital (Centre Hospitalier Universitaire)
CHR    Regional Hospital (Centre Fospitalier Regional)
CIRES Ivorian Center for Economic and Social Research
(Centre Ivoirien de Recherche Economique et Sociale)
DCGTX Directorate For Control of Major Works
(Direction et Contr le des Grands Travaux)
EDF    European Development Fund
EPI    Expanded Program of Immunization
FAC    Aid and Cooperation Fund (Fonds d'Aide et de Coop ration,
France)
FP     Family Planning
GOIC   Government of Ivory Coast
ILO    International Labour Organization
LSMS   Living Standards Measurement Survey
MIS   Management Information System
MCR    Maternal and Child Health
MOEF   Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOPHP Ministry of Public Health and Population
MOB    Management and Organization Bureau
NCC    National Census Committee
NGO    Non-Government Organization
NIPH   National Institute of Public Health
PHC    Primary Health Care
PPF    Project Preparation Facility
UNECA United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
UNFPA United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF United Nations Childrens Fund
USAID United States' Agency for International Development
WHO    World Health Organization
'/The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc at the rate of 1 FF to CFAF
50. The French franc is currently floating.
2/As of July 1985.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE Iv'ORY COAST
HEALTH AND DEKOGRAPHIC PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Table of Contents ..........................................              i
Loan and Project Summary ................... 0669............           iv
Basic Data          .................................................    vii
Definitions *...............................................   viii
INTRODUCTION         1...................................... .........   1
A.  Population, Health & Nutrition Status ..................             2
B.  Health Services Organization and Performance ....9.......            5
C.  Health Manpower        ........................................      8
D.  Expenditures and Financing           .............................   9
II  SECTOR POLICIES AND ISSUES ... ................o.... .e.oo-oo            10
A.  Health and Population Policies ..............                       10
B.  Key Sector Constraints and Issues               ......................  12
C.  Bank's Role          ............................................   15
III THE PROJECT                                                              16
A.  Project Objectives ........    ...............*...   .........      16
B.  Project Composition  ..... ...........................              16
C.  Project Description  ...  .......................... o              17
IV  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN                                          29
A.  Project Cost           .....................e.e..........           29
B.  Financing Plan and Incremental Recurrent Costs  o.......            31
V   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, ACCOUNTING
AND REPORTING                              9..9.  ..oo.o              33
A.  Implementation ee.   ....... g...e.....g......eee...                33
B.  Administration ...       ....  g..........eeg..O..eeg..             33
C   Procurement e.........         .. . sogg oeg...geoo..gggggoo        35
D.  Disbursement  .....ggg..g.g.ge          ... g.gg..gegg.eg           36
E.  Accounting and Reporting                           ......0.         38
This document has a mrictd distribution sad may be uwd by eipeeits only in the pefonnamn
or their official dutie. Its contents may not otharise be dicimd without Wold Dbk auoitin.



- ii -
Table of Contents
(Cont'd)
Page No.
VI  JUSTIFICATION  ........a..ssu....... ess...  ssesees.uees.eses    38
A.  Benefits ..........          .                                  38
B.  Risks *....................                 ......seoe    40
VII AGREEHENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............... .......    40
TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
4.1 Project Cost Summary           ..................................  29
4.2 Contingency Allowances ..... ..................  ............   30
4.3 Financing Plan ................................ o........    31
5.1 Procurement ............................................    35
5.2 Disbursement Plan ...........        ................... .    37
ANNEXES
1.   Supporting Tables and Charts
Tables
Ti   Selected indicators for selected West African
countries (1984) .....       ...............................    43
T2   Comparative health-related indicators for
Ivory Coast and lower middle-Income countries  .......      44
T3   Ranking of reported infectious and parasitic
diseases (1983) .6......................................... 45
T4   Health manpower (1981-83) .....          ............ ..s..   46
T5   Distribution of paramedical personnel
by facilities (1983)         ................................    47
T6   Health budget 1981-84          ........................*.....    48
T    health recurrent budget, 1984 .....      ....................  49
T8   Annual needs for nurses (1981-2002) .....................     50
T9   Estimated deficit in nurses, with and
without the project (1981-2002) .................. o ...    51
T1O  Implementation schedule for civil works ................    52
Ti1  Implementation schedule and targets for nurse
training activities .............................................  53
T12  Implementation schedule for management activities   .....   55
T13  Implementation schedule for the demographic
work program                 .............. .........    56
T14  Summary account by project component ..................    57
T15  Incremental recurrent costs          ...........................    59
T16  Summary of technical assistance and consulting
services ...................**.***... ***********           60
T17  Estimated schedule of disbursements ......................    61



- iii -
Table of Contents
(Cont'd)
Page No.
Charts
Cl  Ministry of Health and Population Organization
Chart       ..............................................  62
C2   Project Management Organization Chart ........o..  ....    63
2.   Regional distribution of facilities and personnel ........    64
3.   Health manpower structure and deployment      .................  65
4.  Health manpower projections .......................... ....      68
5.   Selected documents and data available in the
project file ........................... ...............      72
Map IBRD 18942R .............................                   73
This report is based on the findings of appraisal and post-appraisal
missions which visited Ivory Coast, respectively, In November 1984 and in
March 1985. The appraisal mission comprised M. Jancloes (Mission leader
and Public HeAlth Specialist), G. Sinclair (Architect), A. Hill, (PHNPR),
H. Jemai, (Consultant, Demographer), N. Blackden (Loan Officer), J. van Der
Gaag (Economist), D. Vaillancourt (Operations Assistant), and A. Debroise
(Consultant, Nurse Training Specialist). D. Jolly (Consultant, Health
Planning Specialist), E. de Gaiffier (PHN), M. Kivits, H. Silvy, 1. Boland
(Consultants) assisted in project identification and preparation.



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
EALET AND D9UOGRAPIC PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:      Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount:        US$22.2 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayment over 20 years, with five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Cofinancier:   USAID/U.S. Bureau of the Census
Project
Description:  The project, which is the Bank's first operation in the
health sector, vould assist:
1. the Ministry of Public Health and Population (MOPEP)
to:
(a) strengthen health manpower development through expansion
of nurse training capacity to address current shortages,
through implementation of a revised curriculum, including
family planning and field training, that is more responsive
to the health needs of the country, and through development
of health manpower planning capacity; and,
(b) improve MOPEP wanagement capability and efficiency
of health service delivery by strengthening: (i) the
Central Directorates through development of a management
information system and improvement in planning and
operations; (ii) major hospitals through management
training, development of cost-containment programs
and strengthening of key services; and (iii) basic
health services through training programs for all staff
including auxiliaries and programs in management, super-
vision and evaluation.
2. the Ministry of Economy and Finance (hEF) to:
(a) improve the availability of demographic information
through strengthening of the Directorate of Statistics
to carry out a program of demographic data collection
and analysis, including a national population census
and a subsequent survey of migration; and
(b) provide the basis for population policy development
by disseminating the results of the census and surveys
and integrating such demographic information into medium
and long-term macroeconomic and sectoral planning.



- V -
Benefits:      The project would improve the quality of nurse training
and. over the longer term, would help to address a serious
shortage of nursing staff. The overall quality of service
delivery is expected to be improved through strengthening
of the management of NOPEP Directorates. Cost-containment
measures in selected principal hospitals vould improve their
operating efficiency and permit the orderly introduction
of appropriate cost-recovery mechanism planned by the
Government. Strengthening in-service training and supervision
of staff in 70 health centers would serve as a first step
in developing a national model for the delivery of basic
health care in urban and rural areas. A census to be under-
taken during 1987 would provide the essential data for improving
economic and human resource planning and for developing
population policies.
Risks:         The relative inezperience in project implementation of the
MOPEP and of the Directorate of Statistics within MEF would
be the main risk. To minimize this risk, the sain infrastructure
component would be supervised by the DCGTX, a Government
organization established to implement large civil works,
which has a proven track record.  A Management and Organization
Bureau vould be established for developmet and follow-up
of management activities, and would be provided with appropriate
management expertise. To minxiize organizational risks,
the planned census would follow established methodology;
in addition, technical assistance would be available from
uNFPA, UNECA the U.S. Bureau of the Census, and France to
support project implementation.



- vi -
Estimated Cost:'/
US$ Million
Part A:  Health System Improvement                   Local   Foreign  Total
1. Manpower Development
Nursing Schools                               7.5      5.3      12.8
Field Training Programs                       0.4      0.2      0.6
Subtotal                               7.9      5.5     13.4
2. Management
Central Ministry                              0.6      0.8      1.4
Hospital System                               0.8      0.9       1.7
Basic Health Services                         0.8      0.4      1.2
Subtotal                               2.2      2.1      72
3.  Project Management and Administration         0.2      0.2      0.4
4. Repayment of PPF                               0.2      0.3      0.5
Subtotal Part A                       10.5      8.1     18.6
Part B: Population Data Development
Census of Localities                         0.4      0.0      0.4
1987 Population Census                       3.5      0.9      4.4
Post-Census Activities                       0.3      0.2      0.5
Subtotal Part B                        4.2      1.1      5.3
Total Baseline Costs                                 14.7      9.2     23.9
Physical Contingencies                                0.7      0.7       1.4
Price Contingencies                                   2.8      1.6       4.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                              18.2     11.5     29.7
Financing Plan
Bank                                                 10.9     11.3     22.2
Government                                            7.3       -        7.3
USAID/Bureau of Census                                 -       0.2       0.2
18.2     11.5     29.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Annual                              1.1   3.1   4.2   4.9   4.2   3.1   1.6
Cumulative                          1.1   4.2   8.4  13.3  17.5  20.6  22.2
Economic rate of return: N/A
Map: No. IBRD 18942R
1/ Project costs include taxes estimated at US$4.8 million.



- vii -
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
BASIC DATA
A. General Country Data
1.  Total Area (sq. k)e........e.......e..................ee..... 322,000
2.  Total Population - (mid-1985 Estimate) (nillions) .......2.....1O.2
3.  GNP per capita, US Dollars (1983)..............................710
4.  Enrollment in Prizary Schools (Z) (1982).......................76
5.  Enrollment in Secondary School (Z) (1982) ...................... 17
B. Population Data
1.  Population Density (per sq. km) (1985) ......................... 32
2.  Urban Population (%) (1985) ............. *e9*9*ee..............44
3.  Average Annual Population Growth Rate (Z) - 1965-72 ..........4w6
- 1973-83 .......... 4.6
- 1980-2000.........3.3
4.  Anzual Population Natural Increase (1983) ..................... 3.2
5.  Total Fertility Rate (1983)....          .                         6.6
6.  Crude Birth Rate per 1,000, (1983) .............................46
7.  Crude Death Rate per 1,000, (1983) ............................14
C. Health and Nutrition Data
1.  Life Expectancy at Birth (1983) (years) ....................... 52
2.  Infant Mortality Rate per 1,000, (1983) .......................e121
3.  Child Death Rate per 1,000, (1983) ............................. 20
4.  Population per Physician (1980) ............................ *21,040
5.  Population per Nursing Person (1980) .........................1,590
6.  Daily Calorie Supply per capita (1982) ...................... 2,652
7.  Daily Calorie Supply as Z of Requirement (1982) ............. 115
Source: The World Bank, World Development Report, 1985, and Mission
estimates.



- viii -
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy Rate:           The percentage of persons aged 15 and over
who can read and write.
Case Fatality Rate:            The number of deaths due to a disease per the
total number of people who have contracted
the disease, usually expressed as a
percentage.
Child Death Rate:              The number of deaths among children 1-4 years
of age per 1,000 children in the same age
group in a given year.
Crude Birth Rate:              The number of live births per year per 1,000
people in a given year.
Crude Death Rate:              The number of deaths per year per 1,000
people in a given year.
Incidence Rate:                The number of persons contracting a disease
in a population during a specified period of
time. Usually expressed as the number of
cases per 1,000 persons.
Infant Mortality Rate:         The number of deaths of infants under 1 year
of age in a given year per 1,000 live births
during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:      Number of years a newborn child would live if
subject to the mortality risks prevailing for
the cross-section of population at time of
birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate:       The number of maternal deaths per 100,000
live births in a given year attributable to
pregnancy, and childbearing complications.
Morbidity:                     The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Rate of Natural Increase:      Difference between crude birth and crude
death rates; usually expressed as a '--;cent-
age of the total population in a given year.
Total Fertility Rate:          The average number of children that would be
born alive to a woman during her lifetime if
she were to pass through her childbearing
years conforming to the age-specific
fertility rates of a given year; serves as an
estimate of average number of children per
family.



REPUBLIC 3F IVORY COAST
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
Country Overview
1.01     The Ivorian economy experienced rapid growth averaging 7 percent
per annum during the first two decades following independence, but has
suffered from an economic recession during the 1980s. In 1983 real per
capita income fell by 15 percent and per capita GNP was about US$710. The
country's present economic and financial difficulties stem largely from the
unfavorable evolution of the external economic environment, on which the
Ivory Coast remains highly dependent, combined with the deterioration in
domestic economic and financial management that was increasingly evident
during the latter half of the 1970s. Since 1981, Government has undertaken
stringent financial recoverv and economic adjustment programs, aimed at
restoring the basis for growth in the medium term.
1.02     The rapid economic expansion in the 1960O and 1970s, which was
principally in agriculture, relied on and in turn encouraged substantial
inflows of immigrant labor and rapid population growth. During the 19708,
the population grew at an average annual rate of 4.9X, one of the highest
growth rates in the world, and sufficient to double the population in 15 to
17 years. Since this growth was viewed as an important contributing factor
to economic expansion, the Government adopted a liberal immigration policy
and a pro-natalist stance, reflecting its open economic policies and in
accord with cultural and traditional attitudes prevailing in the country.
1.03     The present difficulties have brought to light the problems of
accommodating a rapid expansion of population, labor force, and
immigration when there is no corresponding expansioa of economic activity
and output. Since economic growth prospects are expected to remain tightly
constrained well into the 1990s, with per capita income growing at less
than 1 percent per year, the Government faces a considerable challenge in
sustaining and redirecting its efforts to develop the country's human
resources. Despite the fact the Ivory Coast officially supports a
pro-natalist policy, policymakers are becoming concerned about the
implications of rapid population growth and its impact on the development
prospects of the country. As a result, the Government has requested Bank
assistance to carry out a population census in 1987 and to undertake
related demographic work.
1.04     The Ivory oDast has invested considerable resources in the health
sector but performance has been unsatisfactory. Health indices show that
conditions in the Ivory Coast are not significantly better than those
prevailing in poorer neighboring West African countries. Recognizing the
constraints imposed by the present economic situation, the Ministry
of Public Health and Population (MOPHP) has become increasingly aware of
the need to make mDre effective use of investments in hospital and medical
district infrastructure and of existing human resources. To improve the
efficiency of the health service delivery system, the Government is
committed to making improvements in policymaking, planning, utilization of
physical and human resources, and management (including selected



-2-
cost-containment and cost-recovery mechanisms). MOPHP is therefore seeking
IBRD assistance to address major health sector constraints through health
manpower development and improvements in sector organization and
management.
A. Population, Health, and Nutrition Status
Population Status and Prospects
1.05      Population Status.  The Ivory Coast had an estimated population
of 10.2 million in mid-1985. Population density, averaging about 32
inhabitants per square kilometer, is low by world standards, and uneven by
region, ranging from over 50 in the South to less than 15 in Southwest and
East. The country is highly urbanized by African standards (nearly 50
percent). Of this urban population, over 80 percent live in the South,
which includes the Greater Abidjan metropolitan area with an estimated
population of 2.5 million. The age structure of the Ivory Coast is
youthful with children under 15 years of age accounting for 45 percent of
the total.  Aliens (reside_>s of non-Ivorian origin) account for about a
quarter of the total population, with most Immigrating from neighboring
countries, chiefly Burkina and Mali. Fertilitv levels are high with an
estimated total fertility rate of about 6.6. Mortality is still high
relative to the country's level of income and development, but has been
declining rapidly. Life expectancy is estimated at about 53 years.
1.06     The population growth rate has been extremely high over the past
two decades, and is currently estimated at 4.1 percent per year. This very
rapid growth results from a high and rising rate of natural 'ncrease of
about 3.1 percent per annum, and from substantial net immigration. High
and rising natural increase is the result of a conti-uing high crude birth
rate, now about 46 per thousand, combined with a high but falling crude
death rate, now about 14 per thousand. In addition to this extremely high
population growth, three major interrelated processes dominate demographic
trends in the Ivory Coast: immigration, internal migration, and
urbanization.   As a result of substantial immigration, the size and
relative importance of the foreign-born community, now split about equally
between urban and rural areas has steadily increased, and is now estimated
to represent about 25 percent of the total population. Internal migration
has been predominantly from north to south. The combined outcome of
immigration and internal migration has led to increasing regional
disparities, with high rates of population growth in the rainforest and
southern savannah areas, and negligible to slow growth elsewhere.
Migratory patterns have also been the major contributors to a rapid pace of
urban growth averaging 8-12 percent per annum over the past 20 years.
1.07     Population Prospects.   According to Bank projections based on
the 1975 census and 1978/79 survey data, and assuming continued decline in
mortality, a gradual decline in fertility, and slowly declining
immigration, the population is expected to increase to 12.6 million in



-3-
1990, 17.8 million in 2000 and 25.8 million in 2015. Over this 30 year
period the urban population will increase from 49 to 63 percent of total
population. Abidjan will grow from its current size of 2.5 million people
to over 8 million by 2015.
Health Status
1.08      Although health status in the Ivory Coast has improved somewhat
during the past two decades, health-related indicators, such as crude death
rate, infant and child mortality rates and life expectancy, compare
unfavorably with those of other lower middle income countries. The status
and trends are little better than those prevailing in neighboring West
African countries that have significantly lover per capita incomes and
fewer financial resources than the Ivory Coast (Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2).
1.09     Life expectancy and infant and child mortality rates differ
considerably among regions of the country. Life expectancy ranges from
about 56 years in Abidjan to 50 in rural forest areas and 39 years in rural
savannah areas. Infant and child mortality rates are relatively low in
Abidjan, while savannah areas reveal considerably higher rates. Although
in general the health status in urban areas is better than that in rural
areas, the urban poor have a lover health status due in part to limited
access to potable water and waste disposal, inadequate housing, unemploy-
ment, and inadequate diet.
1.10     Maternal mortality is high.  Fewer than 10% of women receive
prenatal care and only 20Z of all births take place in a sanitary
environment with proper delivery assistance. The number and severity of
obstetrical emergency admissions to hospitals is also significant. A large
proportion of maternal deaths can be attributed to complications from
illegal abortions in the 15-19 age group, a strong indication that the lack
of sex education and very limited availability of family planning materials
is resulting in unwanted pregnancies.
1.11      The mortality and morbidity patterns in the Ivory Coast are
similar to those in other West African countries. Although deaths due to
infectious and communicable childhood diseases are declining, these are
still the first ranking cause of mortality and morbidity. Mortality is
largely attributable to measles, tetanus, lower respiratory infections,
malaria, whooping cough and meningitis compounded by malnutrition.
Perinatal deaths and death from diarrhea, always under-reported, are also
major causes. Morbidity for all age groups is mainly caused by malaria,
intestinal parasitosis, skin diseases, diarrhea, throat infections, and
acute respiratory infections. Detailed information on mortality and
morbidity patterns and on the monthly frequency of infectious disease in
the Ivory Coast is presented in Annex 1, Table 3. Regional variations in
the epidemiological pattern of parasitic and infectious diseases include
foci of trypanosomiasis in forest areas, severe onchocerciasis in the
North, yaws in the South, and higher incidence of respiratory infections
and meningitis in the North.



-4-
1.12      The mortality and morbidity profile is associated with ecological
factors and sanitary conditions. Ecological and climatic factors lead to
fluctuation in the prevalence and incidence of diseases, in food produc-
tion, in money shortage and in labor demand. Sanitation conditions are
poor. Less than 30% of the population has access to potable water; in
Abidjan, less than 50% has access to safe water from standpipes or through
house connections and even fewer to sanitary forms of excreta disposal. In
the savannah zones and In the semi-arid plateaus in the northeast, seasonal
shortages of water occur with greater frequency.
Nutrition Status
1.13      The Ivory Coast is not dependent on food aid.  The latest
estimates of the overall nutritional status reflect an adequate supply
equivalent, on average, to 115% of the minimum daily requirement. However,
large seasonal and regional variations in food supply and serious
socio-economic inequalities result in widespread malnutrition in the North,
in poorer segments of the urban population, and among immigrants. Survey
data from the rural north indicate that up to 30% of children aged 9-24
months suffer from severe malnutrition when food supplies are at their
lowest before the harvest season. In the South, regardless of better food
supplies, inadequate nutrition exists because the diet consists largely of
starchy foods. Intakes of protein and calories are below minimum daily
requirements, while intakes of fats and vitamin B are a small fraction of
the requirements. Studies undertaken in Abidjan MCH centers indicate that
children, in particular from the families of recent immigrants, start to
suffer from some degree of malnutrition within a few months of birth.
1.14       In addition to an inadequate food supply in some segments of the
population, the following factors contribute to malnutrition among pregnant
and lactating women and children -who are a high risk group: a) improper
meaning and child-feeding practices due to cultural traditions; b) high
frequency of infectious and parasitic disease; c) youag maternal age at
first childbirth; d) high total fertility rate resulting from short birth
intervals; and e) problems affecting recent immigrants and migrants, such
as changes in traditional diets and difficulties of adjusting to a cash
economy.
1.15          Data on the extent and distribution of nutritional
deficiencies in the Ivory Coast have not been collected systematically, and
the problem of malnutrition and its determinants is not well understood.
This contributes to the absence of any policy or program to improve
nutritional status. However, detailed data on food intake collected during
a 1979 household survey are currently being analyzed and will be updated by
the ongoing Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) supported by the
World Bank. These data are expected to provide a comprehensive picture of
nutrition levels, regional differences, and high risk groups. The results
will be updated through further household surveys that will include
questions specifically relating to nutritional status; this should in turn
identify nutritional problems and high risk groups and enable targeted,
priority programs to be designed and implemented.



-5-
B. Health Services Organization and Performance
1.16      MOPHP has overall responsibility for formulating and executing
the Government's health policies. It is the largest provider of health
care and is also responsible for health manpower training. Other public
sector units that provide health care include the armed services and the
Ministry of Social Affairs through the Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance
Sociale (a social security system for civil servants and professional
classes). The private sector consists primarily of two missionary
hospitals and a number of small health centers, health services provided by
large corporations or companies, and a number of clinics mostly located in
Abidjan.
1.17      MOPHP is organized (see Annex 1, Chart 1) into eight National
Directorates, eight Regional Directorates, a Health Inspection service,
three non-autonomous and eight autonomous institutions, a National Consul-
tative Council on Public Health and Population, the National Council on
Public and Social Hygiene and the Commission on Therapeutics. The eight
Directorates of MOPHP are as follows: Mi) Public Health; (ii) Financial
Affairs; (iii) Hospital Medicine; (iv) Pharmaceutical Services; (v)
Regional and International Relations; (vi) Health Planning and Statistics;
(vii) Manpower; and (viii) Equipment and Maintenance.
1.18      The two largest Directorates are Hospital Medicine and Public
Health which together represent about two-thirds of the total headquarters
(administrative) staff and 90% of the total staff of MOPHP. The Direc-
torate of Hospital Medicine is responsible for overseeing all hospitals and
urban-based curative facilities, including health centers, dispensaries,
and maternities.  The Public Health Directorate has managerial and opera-
tional responsibilities for all rural facilities (district headquarters,
maternities, MCH clinics, dispensaries, mobile services) and most preven-
tive health services (school health, MCH centers, TB centers). Most of the
substantive and longer term health sector planning has been carried out by
the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). The Institute of Hygiene, one
of the non-autonomous institutions, is responsible for centralizing health
statistics from health facilities and for carrying out health and
sanitation education, sanitation inspections and immunization.
1.19      The hospital network consists of two University hospitals (CHU),
five regional (CHR), 11 District, and 48 sub-district hospitals. Due to
the lack of equipment, maintenance, qualified nursing aides, administrative
personnel, and to poor management, the hospitals, in general, fail to
provide the quantity and the quality of services that are needed.
Deficiencies in basic services such as food preparation, hygiene, as well
as the storage, distribution, and utilization of drugs by hospital
pharmacies, need to be addressed if the hospitals are to improve their
capacity to provide adequate health services.
1.20      Urban Health Services Network.  Urban health centers (27
dispensaries and 13 matermities) are mainly located in the Abidjan
metropolitan area which-now has 50% of the country's urban dispensaries and
85X of urban maternities. Preventive urban health programs are
delivered through 35 MCH centers and 33 school clinics. Existing health
centers do not have adequate staff and managerial support to cope with the
demands of a rapidly growing population and to address the needs of recent



-6-
settlers both in Abidjan and in a number of secondary cities.   As a
result, the urban population relies heavily on hospitals for outpatient
health services and deliveries.
1.21      Rural Health Services Network. The eight Regional Directorates
cover a network of 26 medical districts ("Secteurs de base") which have
recently been created. The base unit of the medical district is an
administrative center with a dispensary, a maternity, maternal and child
health service, a laboratory, a pharmacy, and various other services such
as mobile units, health education services, and water control units.
Mobile units provide various health services (mostly preventive) through
visits to villages that are too distant from the base unit or a hospital.
Though the dispensaries in principle should also provide preventive
services and health education, they mainly provide general curative care
and serve as a first-aid center for severe cases that need to be referred
to a higher level of health care. Similarly, only 20 percent of
maternities, also responsible for providing health education and preventive
work, do in fact provide these services.
1.22      The 26 medical districts cover 435 dispensaries and 190
maternities (1983). Two-thirds of the dispensaries and more than 80
percent of the maternities were constructed since the country became
independent in 1960. Recently constructed facilities, particularly those
in the North, have been financed primarily at the community level through
the regional rural development program. Poor coordination between this
regional program and the MOPHP as well as equipment, manpower, and
operating budget shortages faced by MOPHP in part attributable to the lack
of planning and management of resources, have so far delayed the opening of
a significant number of completed facilities.  In 1982, 69 dispensaries and
37 maternities were not operational for these reasons.
1.23      Because services provided by rural facilities are generally of
poor quality, their impact on health status is limited. The health workers
passively provide health care whenever supplies permit and often
ignore outreach or community activities. Utilization studies show tbat the
average catchment area of a peripheral health unit is about a 6 km radius
and that utilization depends on the quality of care provided. The popula-
tion beyond this catchment area relies mainly upon traditional practi-
tioners or self-treatment. No expansion of services should be considered,
however, until mDre effective and efficient use of present resources is
achieved.
1.24      The distribution of hospitals and health facilities varies
among the regions of the country. The average coverage of the population
per hospital bed and per health center is relatively good (I bed per 867
persons and 1 health center per 15,000 persons). The average number of
women per maternity bed is 2,500. However, some regions are under-served,
especially the Center and the Center-East, as shown in Annex 2.
1.25      Maternal and Child Health (MCM) Services.  Coverage for maternity
and MCH facilities is also uneven. The network of maternities handles
about 85 percent of the deliveries in the Abidjan area but only 13Z in
rural areas. Only 20% of rural maternities provide preventive services and



-7-
no data are available on the coverages of prenatal screening, family plann-
ing services and on the follow-up of pre-school children. In MCH clinics
in Abidjan supervised by the National Institute of Public Health (NIPH),
33% of prenatal visits, 30% of infant visits and 49Z of child visits are
for curative care. Postnatal visits are rare. Family Planning Education
emphasizes birth spacing for health reasons and not reduction of family
size; provision of contraceptives is rare. Contributing factors to the
limited provision of MCH services are lack of in-service training and
supervision of health care providers, shortage of midwives, nurses and
auxiliaries and lack of community education and information.
1.26     Imunization Program.  An expanded program of immunization (EPI)
against the six communicable childhood diseases (measles, diphtheria,
tetanus, pertussis, poliomyelitis and tuberculosis) has been carried out
since 1978. Starting In selected urban (Abidjan), rural forest
(Abengourou) and rural savannah (Korhogo) areas, coverage of EPI programs
was extended in 1984 to 22 out of the 26 medical districts, and mobile
tesiu are used to supplement services provided by fixed medical units. The
most recent survey made in 1983 revealed a vaccine coverage ranging from
45Z to 81% for measles, 51% to 90% for diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis,
polio (two shots) and 62% to 81% for tuberculosis according to district.
Pregnant women are also protected against tetanus through this program.
1.27      Health and Nutrition Education Programs.  Four important health
and nutrition education programs are currently carried out in the Ivory
Coast: the campaign for village water supply; the fight against
malnutrition; the EPI education program; and MCH activities. The first
program is focused on safe water and on the elimination of diseases linked
with water, e.g., diarrhea and dracunculiasis, but this program covers only
25 percent of the villages in the north, west, and east regions of the
country. The nutrition program emphasizes breast-feeding and weaning
practices. With emphasis on the production of mass media materials, the
EPI program aims at improving the population's knowledge about the
effectiveness of immunization programs. The NCH education program is aimed
at reducing the attrition rate in prenatal screening, in vaccination, and
in child follow-up visits.
1.28      Pharmaceuticals.  Drug supplies are procured and distributed
through tvo independent networks: the public sector network operated by
MOPHP through its Central Pharmacy, and the private sector network
operating through pharmacies and informal resale arrangements. Both
systems are relatively weak and the result is inadequate drug supply
outside major cities. The public sector system is constrained by limited
budgetary allocations - in theory drugs are provided free of charge at
MOPHP facilities - and by poor management of the system that results in
inadequate and irregular supplies both to hospital pharmacies and to
peripheral facilities. A limited list of essential drugs has been
completed but not yet adopted. Procurement of drugs could be improved by
practicing international competitive bidding and bulk purchasing. Private
sector pharmacies do not significantly reach out Into the interior. Drugs
from private sector pharmacies are relatively expensive as few drugs are
purchased in bulk, or sold in their generic form.



-8-
C. Health Manpower
1.29      Health Manpower Status.  Although the Ivory Coast has made
considerable progress in health manpower development over the past two
decades, particularly in the output of doctors, the ratios of doctors,
nurses, and midwives to the population are low compared with standards in
other West Africa countries or countries with a comparable level of
economic development. Table 4 in Annex 1 provides total health manpower
data for the years 1981-83. In 1983 the ratios of doctors, midwives, and
nurses per 100,000 population were 6.5, 10.9 and 24.9 respectively. While
the ratios for doctors and midwives are improving, the ratio is deteriorat-
ing for nurses. The health system employs about 7,000 non-civil service
support staff, ranging from gardeners and chauffeurs to laboratory
assistants and X-ray equipment operators. Though a part of this group is
listed as qualified but not formally trained", the vast majority consists
of uaskilled workers. Traditional practitioners and community birth
attendants are not formally trained and are insufficiently supervised. In
some projects, such as the health education progranu related to village
water supply, community health workers are effectively used after a short
training period.
1.30      Health Manpower Deployment.  As a result of past priorities given
to hospital investment, the hospital network employes 70 percent of all
physicians and about half of all nurses and midwives (see Annex 1, Table 5
and Annex 3). Although staff shortages at this level are apparent, the
hospital network is nevertheless much better staffed than peripheral health
facilities, comprising health centers and dispensaries, where chronic
understaffing is evident. For example, at the peripheral (non-hospital)
level, only 60 percent of requirements for nurses has been met. This
affects urban and rural areas almost equally. To rectify this imbalance
between the hospitals and peripheral health facilities network, MOPHP
presently assigns more than 60 percent of new nurse graduates and 85
percent of new midwife graduates to peripheral health centers, in
accordance with measures adopted by MOPHP (see para. 2.04).
1.31      At the basic level of health care delivery, the dispensary
staffing should, in theory, consist of one nurse, two nurses' aides and two
or three auxiliaries. In practice, dispensaries are uaderstaffed with, on
average, a nurse and one or two auxiliaries. In an MCH unit, the proper
staffing would include one midwife, one aide and two or three auxiliaries
but, in fact, less than 60% of the MCH units have a qualified midwife, and
other staff averages 1.5 per unit.
1.32      Health Manpower Training.  For doctors, a seven-year program of
basic medical training is offered at the Medical School of the University
of Abidjan and the first three years of dental training are offered at the
Dental Institute. The National School of Nursing and Midwifery at
Treichville, Abidjan, produces State midwives and State nurses following
completion of a three-year program. Admission requirements for nurses and
midwives is the completion of four years of secondary education.
Post-basic training in technical nursing specialties is being initiated in
anesthesiology and psychiatry.



-9-
D. Expenditures and Financing
1.33     Recurrent Expenditure. Tn 1984, the Governoent's recurrent
budget allocation to health was CFAF 29.9 billicn (US$61.0 million
equivalent),_ or nearly 7% of the total Gove=_me.t recurrent budget. This
represents a reduction over the 1983 level of CFAF 32.9 billion (US$67.1
million equivalent), or 7.6Z of the total recurrent budget (see Annex 1,
Table 6). In per capita term , the level of recurrent expenditures
(US$6.00) is relatively high by West African standards, indicating some
scope for efficiency improvement.
1.34     Personnel costs absorb an increasing share of the recurrent
budget (75 percent in 1984, as against 68 percent in 1981), while expendi-
tures for medicines and materials have declined substantially from 10 and
22 percent respectively of the 1981 budget to 8 and 15 percent respectively
of the 1984 budget (see Annex 1, Table 7). The shortage of resources for
maintenance, pharmaceuticals and equipment curtails the effectiveness and
efficiency of health system operations. Regional imbalances in budget
allocations are also apparent and consistent with the disparities that
exist in the distribution of facilities and manpower (Annex 2). These
budget allocation patterns exhibit a distinct bias toward urban, curative,
hospital-based care. Rural areas with 50% of the population receive about
CFAF 3.2 billion or about 11 of the recurrent budget, while CHUs absorb
about CFAF 6.2 billion or 22% of the sector's recurrent budget and about
40% of the recurrent budget allocation for all hospitals. Measures to
contain rapidly rising costs of the sost important hospitals are urgently
required.
1.35     The assessment of the current budget presents an incomplete
picture of health care expenditures, because it does not include expendi-
tures by local government and by the private sector. These expenditures
outside the public sector are likely to assume increasing inportance.
Expenditures on health by local government during 1982 were in the order of
CFAF 2 billion, representing about 6% of total governinnt health
expenditures for that year. Private health expenditures are not documented
but are significant and rapidly increasing. Patients often need to buy
their own medicine in order to be treated in the Government hospitals, and
a private health sector is growing, notably in Abidjan, which, in terms of
available beds, represents already more than one third of the public sector
beds in this area.
1.36     Investment Budget. Consistent with the severe public finance
constraints affecting the country, the investment budget for the health
sector has shown marked fluctuations in recent years, declining by nearly
70 percent in 1984 from the 1983 level of CFAF 4.2 billion (US$8.6 mllion
equivalent or 1.8 percent of total investmnt) to CFAF 1.3 billion (US$2.6
million equivalent), or 0.6 percent of the investment budget. The largest
reductions were in the allocations to the CHUs, following their
reorganization into semi-public enterprises (paragraph 2.04), and in the
support to regional hospitals and dispensaries. Part of the investment
budget is utilized for maintenance and for equipment purchases.
1.37     External. Assistance. There is modest support to the health
sector from several international and bilateral agencies. France provides
assistance in the form of medical personnel through technical cooperation
arrangements. In 1984, there were about 180 French medical and



-10-
paramedical staff in the country. The European Development Fund (EDF)
supports programs of health education linked to village water supply.
Belgium provides public health education grants and physicians.
II. SECTOR POLICIES AND ISSUES
A. Health and Population Policies
Health Policy
2.01      In the past, Government concentrated on developing urban
hospitals with, as a consequence, heavy orientation of the health system
towards curative care. Mobile teams have provided, at best, intermittent
preventive health services in rural areas.  Health manpower development
programs also reflected a curative approach. Past Government efforts have
had only a modest effect on improving health conditions as a whole, since
the rural population had little or no access to basic health services.
Recognizing this, in the late 1970s the Government began to develop
permanent facilities in 26 medical districts throughout the country to
provide health care.
2.02      In 1982, the Government ratified the WHO Charter on Primary
Health Care (PHC). To support this new orientation, manpower development
policies have also undergone a corresponding shift. In this context, the
role of nurses has been redefined within the framework of a health team
where each category of health professional, including nursing auxiliaries,
would have a specific role to play. Nurses are expected to assume a lead
role In the health team and to serve as educators, administrators, and
managers. In addition to improving the productivity of doctors (para.
2.11) nurses would have a particular responsibility for training and
supervising subordinate auxiliary-level staff.  They would provide
preventive health care and be a link between health centers and the
communities. Their training should, therefore, prepare them to play this
enlarged and central role in the health system. A new health manpower
policy, emphasizing inter alia such nurse training, was endorsed by the
Council of Ministers in June 1984.
2.03      Strategy.  The Fourth Development Plan, covering the 1981-85
period, sets out priority objectives for the health sector to: (a) improve
access to and the quality of health services in rural areas; (b) improve
the quantity and quality of health manpower by expanding the capacity for
paramedical training and by reorienting it toward the country's needs; Cc)
upgrade existing health facilities, while limiting new urban construction
to those areas where no services exist; (d) give increasing support to
health and nutrition education programs, particularly in preventive
programs, and MCH activities; and (e) strengthen management and cost
containment. A Fifth Development Plan (1986-1990) is presently under
preparation which is expected to reinforce the above objectives, and to
place particular emphasis on improving management and efficiency.



-ll-
2.04      In line with the development plan, MOPHP organized a national
conference in May 1984 to review the genieral health status of the country.
This conference emphasized PHC programs, paramedical training and
strengthening of management. Principal outcomes have been:
- the adoption of a revised nurse training curriculum which
emphasizes public health, family planning, nutrition and
hygiene;
- the decision by the Government to increase nurse output taking
into consideration the enlarged role planned for nurses and the
growing shortage of nurses;
- as of 1984, the priority assignment of the bulk of midwife and
nurse graduates to rural facilities;
- the creation of parastatal enterprises out of two University
Hospitals (CHUs) requiring them to assume administrative and
financial responsibilities for their operations, as a
preliminary step to the establishment and introduction of
cost-recovery mechanisms; and
- the establishment of a PHC Committee. This committee has
developed an implementation plan for strengthening MCH services
including expanded programs of imimnization (EPI), birth
spacing and commuaity education.
Population Policy
2.05      Historically, the Ivory Coast has encouraged rapid population
growth and still offic.ally maintains a pro-natalist stance on population
issues. High rates of immigration from neighboring countries have been
permitted as in the past this provided a convenient source of labor for an
expanding economy. Although official policy remains unchanged, concern
among policymakers about the problems associated with rapid population
growth has Increased because, for the first time in the country's history,
economic growth rates are below the rate of population growth. The
problems of rapid urban expansion are also becoming increasingly evident.
2.06      Growing awareness within the medical profession of the effects of
high fertility on maternal health, and increasing demands for family
planning services in part induced by successful infant and child mortality
reduction, have helped to begin a gradual reassessment of MCH services and
the role of family planning by medical practitioners in the country. The
Ivory Coast has become a signatory of the WHO Charter for Africa, which
includes birth spacing activities and education as an integral element of
PHC.
2.07      Government has adopted a laissez-faire stance toward provision of
Family Planning (FP) services, with private sector activities in FP being
accepted. However, until recently, district medical officers were not
authorized to provide FP activities nor provide in-service training in this
area. Access to these services is now increasingly perceived as desirable
in that it represents a more effective means of birth spacing than
traditional methods. The Government has approved the inclusion of family



-12-
planning in the nurse training curriculum to be implemented under the
proposed project.
2.08      The planning process is changing.  In the past, demographic
factors were not considered as essential in planning and the importance of
population data as a tool for economic and social services planning was not
well appreciated. Consequently, the collection of demographic data was
neglected. In recent years, various demographic activities have been
undertaken, such as the 1975 census, the 1978/79 Demographic Survey, and
the 1980 Ivorian Fertility Survey (one of the World Fertility Survey
series). Data on migration, a major element in population growth and
distribution in Ivory Coast, are still lacking, however, and another census
is needed to update information an population size, growth, and
distribution. Through its commitment to undertake the 1987 census, despite
budgetary constraints, the Government has demonstrated a clear intent to
become more fully informed about the magnitude and nature of population
growth in the Ivory Coast and its implications for the future
socio-economic development of the country. This would facilitate the
development of population policies.
B. Key Sector Constraints and Issues
Health Issues.
2.09      Despite the considerable investment made by the Government in
developing the Ivory Coast's health network, access even to basic health
care remains limited; and, where facilities exist, the quality of service
is poor. This has led KOPEP to address improvement of efficiency of the
existing health system as a first priority, as this is a prerequisite to
any further extension of the health network. The chief constraints raced
by the MOPHP as it seeks to improve health services efficiency are
inadequate staffing and limited management ability in addition to
financial constraints resulting from economic recession.
2.10      Staffing.  Health service staffing is inadequate for four
reasons: (i) disparity between training programs and the country's health
needs, (ii) imbalance in the health manpower structure with a critical
shortage of middle and lower level personnel, (iii) lack of in-service
training and technical supervision, and (iv) lack of staff with
administrative skills. Paramedical training programs have been designed
to maintain external recognition of certification. As a result, training
has emphasized curative, hospital-based care rather than preventive and
community health care.  Practical training materials and laboratory
equipment have also been virtually nonexistent, compromising the
effectiveness of training. A lack of practical field experience at the
health center level has left paramedical graduates ill-equipped to cope
with health problems they have to face when they are assigned outside the
hospital system. This concern with maintaining the quality of service
delivery led the Government in 1975 to raise the entry requirements, to
increase the length of training and to discontinue training of
certificate-level health auxiliaries needed to assist nurses and midwives.
The implication of this decision is a steady reduction in the number of
health personnel in health centers and dispensaries.



-13-
2.11      The health manpower structure is becoming increasingly top heavy
with a critical shortage of nurses, and to a lesser degree health
technicians, and auxiliaries. Projections (see Annex 4) indicate that
without corrective actions, the manpower structure would continue to worsen
with the ratio of nurses to doctors deteriorating from 4.1:1 in the early
eighties to 3.4:1 by the year 2000, as compared with a more appropriate
ratio in excess of 10:1, if doctors are to be employed to their full
capacity. The shortfall of nurses, estimated at 960 in 1985 or 38% of the
overall requirement, would double in the next five years to about 1,800 by
1990 and increase to 3,500 by 2000 (Annex 1, Tables 8 and 9). The only
existing nurse training school in Treichville, which currently has a
capacity to produce only 160 nurses p.a., is not able to train nurses in a
sufficient number to keep pace with population growth in the country and
with probable investment in physical facilities in the sector (para.
2.03). As a result, the shortage of nurses in most facilities would become
acute. The shortage of health auxiliaries and technicians would also
steadily worsen because of the Governoment's 1975 decision to discontinue
auxiliary training. The structural imbalance of the system as a result of
paramedical shortages threatens to compromise the future operation of the
health system. Under the proposed project, nurse training capacity would
be expanded and reoriented to enable nurses to play their central role in
the health system. At the same time, support would be provided to
Government to define a plan for training and development of auxiliary-level
manpower, as the shortage of auxiliaries would also need to be carefully
assessed and addressed in the framework of a longer-term strategy for
health manpower development (para. 3.14).
2.12      A systematic approach to technical supervision and regular
in-service training of health personnel to increase the quality of care has
not been developed. Greater support is required to raise the technical
knowledge and skills of health workers including auxiliaries and community
health workers, in public health, primary health care, nutrition and family
planning. The need for supervision and in-service training opportunities
is greatest for health personnel assigned to peripheral facilities in rural
areas because they work under conditions of relative isolation. Present
training and supervision activities by district medical officers (DMO) are
infrequent, peremptory, and often limited to the administrative aspects of
running a facility rather than technical and practical aspects of providing
better health care through better contact with communities.
2.13      The MOPHP lacks staff with administrative skills at each level.
At the MOPHP headquarters, central directorates cannot provide planning,
programming and administrative monitoring of services mainly because of
lack of qualified administrative staff. At the hospital headquarters,
there are few staff with academic backgrounds and experience in hospital
administration. At the district headquarters level, staff have not been
trained to provide administrative and technical backstopping for rural
health facilities and for mobile health teams.
2.14      Management and Cost Containment.  The principal deficiencies that
lead to poor overall management in the sector can be summarized as follows:
(i) insufficient institutional capacity to plan, program and monitor health
activities, or to collect and analyze appropriate data necessary for health
system management, with as a consequence, poor coordination and task



-14-
definition among different services at all levels; (ii) a lack of
recognized training programs leading to professional specialization in
management and administration of health services and integration of such
personnel into the health manpower structure; (iii) insufficient
supervision and control of staff at all levels in the performance of their
tasks, especially in the peripheral health centers, leading to poor
performance, low productivity and increasing inefficiency; (iv) the absence
of financial management systems, accounting, budget planning, or cost
control within health services, notably in the major hospitals;
(v) inability to ensure adequate maintenance of buildings, vehicles,
equipment, etc., and (vi) poor performance in supply, storage, distribution
and utilization of drugs.
2.15      The inadequacy of health sector financial management, and the
need for cost containment and planning have been highlighted by the recent
deterioration in the country's economic and financial situation, as it is
clear that the rapidly rising costs of hospitals and primary health care
services will impose an increasing burden on the already constrained
Government budget. Government is therefore determined to improve the
efficiency of the system by containing costs and strengthening financial
management and control. The Government's strategy also recognizes that
lasting improvements in performance can only be attained by better overall
mAnagement. To improve the efficiency of financial resource use,
ma-agement and monitoring tools need to be developed, which will in tur
serve as a basis for introducion of appropriate cost recovery mechanisms
for certain types of health services. Initially, the NOPHP wlln focus on
the major consumers of resources, the university and regional bospitals as
the areas most likely to yield significant efficiency improvement.
Population Issues
2.16      Socio-economic Impact of Rapid Population Growth. Even in times
of rapid economic expansion, high rates of population growth and
urbanization would strain the capacity of both CGovernment and the private
sector to develop appropriate basic infrastructure and to provide social
services. In the country's present difficult situation, such rapid growth
creates an even greater burden on the limited resources available to the
public sector if the Ivory Coast is to maintain and expand social services
in line with population growth. With rapid economic growth unlikely to
resume for some years, containment of population and urban growth could
make an important contribution over the medium and long-term to improving
the welfare of the population as a whole. Policymakers lack up-to-date and
reliable demographic information for economic and sectoral planning
necessary for the development of population policy (see para. 2.08).
2.17      Capacity to Provide Family Planning Services.  The health system
at present is unable to provide adequately the basic elements of MCH
services, a key vehicle for the delivery of family planning services. This
is due to inadequate staffing (lack of appropriately trained staff and
shortage of key personnel) and poor management (see paras. 2.09 to 2.15).
This weakness could be addressed in part through improvements in the pre-
and in-service training of nurses and through better management of basic
medical services (see para. 3.11 and 3.25).



-15-
C. Bank's Role
2.18      The Bank strategy in the Ivory Coast is to build a policy
dialogue in the health sector through sector and project work. The longer
term ubjectives of this dialogue are to assist Government to: (i) ensure
that the pace of demographic growth will be compatible with socio-economic
growth capacity; (ii) reduce maternal, infant and child mortality rates
through improved access to basic healtb services with particular emphasis
on MCH and preventive care.; and, (iii) reduce malnutrition by developing
rehabilitation and preven,ion programs for target groups.  The initial
thrust of Bank involvement is designed to help strengthen the institutional
capacity to meet these objectives.
2.19      In health by addressing, as a first priority, constraints related
to output and quality of nurse training and to the lack of management
capability within MOPHP, the proposed project would be an important step
toward addressing broader sectoral constraints. In particular, a
management information system to be developed under the project would
generate financial and epidemiological data essential for sector planning
and service development, and would provide a basis for evaluating the
cost-effectiveness of health programs.
2.20      In population, the Bank's involvement in developing a demographic
work program could be expected to (i) strengthen Government's institutional
capacity in population data development; (ii) improve integration of
demographic factors into macro-economic and sectoral development planning;
and (iii) provide a sound basis for the formulation of a coherent
population policy. Through the analysis of population data, including data
collected from the migration survey and Living Standards Measurement Survey
(LSHS) data (para. 1.15), the Bank would also be able to improve its
knowledge in this sector and have a suitable basis on which to discuss the
socio-economic implications of population growth with the Goverment.
Within such a national planning framework, it would be possible to address
needs that individuals and families have with respect to desirable family
size, and to design corresponding policies and programs.
2.21      Through the proposed project, nutrition status would be monitored
and addressed through programs of nutrition education (see para. 3.24) in
the field training areas, which include both peri-urban and rural areas,
and nutrition training would be strengthened in the revised nursing
curriculum. In addition, updated household surveys and the ongoing LSMS
(see para. 1.15) would help to provide a data base on the extent of
nutrition problems through which to develop programs for targeted high-risk
groups.



-16-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Objevtives
3.01      The project objectives are to assist:
1. The Ministry of Public Health and Population (MOPHP) to:
(a) strengthen mnpower development by expanding and improving
the prr..and in-service training of nurses to mnet current
shortageu. to make training wore responsive to the
Goverament's priority objectives for the sector, and develop
long-term mapower planning; and
(b) improve management capability and efficiency
of health services by strengthening: (i) the central
directorates through development of a management information
system and improvement in planning; (ii) hospitals through
training program in managemnet and development of
cost-containment programs; and (iii) basic health services
through training progra   for aU staff including
auxiliaries, programs in management, supervisioa and
evaluation.
2. The Ministry of Economy and Finance to:
(a) improve the availability of demographic information through
strengthening of the Directorate of Statistics to carry out a
national population census and a subsequent survey on
migration; and,
(b) provide the basis for population policy development by
disseuinating the results of the census and surveys and
integrating such demographic information into mediu and
long-term macro-economic and sectoral planning.
B. Project Composition
3.02   The proposed project would support:
Part A. Health System Improvement
1. Manpower Development through:
(a) expansion of the nurse training capacity by upgrading and
equipping of the existing nursing school in Treichville;
building and equipping of two new nursing schools to be
located at Bouake and Korhogo; and financing of 42
fellowships to ensure availability of key teaching staff as
required for the new schools;
(b) improving the quality of nurse training by the
implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of a redesigned
curriculum;



-17-
(c) providing practical experience for nursing students through
implementation of a program of field training in three
geographic areas linked to the schools; and
td) strengthening of the maagement and planning capacity of the
- Directorate of Health Hanpower.
2. Strengthening of Management Capability of MOPHP through:
(a) establishment of a Management and Organization Bureau (MOB)
within the central ministry; development of a  magement
information system including epidemiological monitoring; and
improvemts in planning and operations of selected
directorates (Maintenance and Pharmaceuticals);
(b) provision of management training and related technical
assistance to upgrade managemnt skills of hospital staff;
development of cost-control, cost-containment and internal
efficiency mechanisms; study and development of a cost
recovery system for two CEU's and 5 CUR's; and strengthening
of selected hospital services; and
(c) provision of in-service training, including management and
administration, for all levels of health staff in 70
peripheral health centers; reinforcement of such training
through implemntation of a program of regular supervision;
evaluation of primary health care activities including MCl,
family planning and immunization; and upgrading and equipping
about 70 health centers and dispensaries.
Part B. Population Data Development
1  Implemeatation of a p2rogram of demographic data collection and
analysis, by strengthening the Directorate of StatistIcs; the
program would include a census of localities, a general
population census in 1987, a post-enumeration survey, and a
survey on migration as well as publication of results;
2.  Integration of the results into planning activities in all
relevant ministries through seminars and foLow-up studies;
and dissemination of census and post-census survey results to
all levels of Government, other community leaders and NG0s.
C. Project Description
Part A. Health System Improvement
1. Health Manpower Development
3.03      As indicated in paragraphs 2.10 and 2.11, an adequate aurs6ng
staff is essential to the effective delivery of health services in Ivory
Coast. However, the current situation reveals a shortage of trained nurses
which is becoming more serious in the face of rapid population growth.
Also, until recently, the content and the pedagogical methods of training
had not been appropriate to the country's needs for nursing care.  This



-18-
component is intended to address deficiencies in nursing manpower and to
assess longer term health manpower requirements by supporting the
following:
a. Upgrading and Expansion of Nurse Training Capacity
3.04      Upgradin  of Existing School.  The only existing nursing school
in Treichville, which also trains idwives, is overcrowded and In a state
of disrepair. The school was initially designed for a smaller student body
than the current enrollment of 800 of which approximately 450 are nurses.
The annual output of graduate nurses is about 160. However, budgetary
constraints led the Government to reduce new enrollments for the 1984/85
school year by about one half. The Government confirmed that the school
will enroll its full complement of student nurses for the 1985/86 school
year and that it will be utilized to full capacity throughout the project
period.
3.05      The project would support rehabilitation, expansion, and
re-equipping of the Treichville school in order to maintain and better
accommodate its current annual output level of 160 nurse graduates. The
upgrading of this school would follow a design which has been reviewed and
found acceptable. Specifically, classroom and administrative space would
be rehabilitated; and an additional 2,700m2 for new dormitories and
maintenance space would be constructed. In addition to the replenishment
of furniture and equipment, vehicles would be provided for transporting
students to field training sites and for their supervision. The project
would also finance incremental operating costs for the Treichville school
including maintenance costs for civil works and equipment, and vehicle
operation and maintenance.
3.06      Establishment of Two New Nursing Schools.  In order to expand the
capacity for nurse training and the output of trained nurses, the project
would support the establishment of two additional nursing schools at Bouake
and Korhogo, each with a capacity for 270 students and a combined annual
output of 160 nurse graduates. As illustrated in Annex 1, Table 9, this
increment in nursing staff would alleviate the nurse deficit projected for
the year 2002. Together these schools would double the Ivory Coast's total
nurse graduate output, from 160 to 320 annually. The Government confirmed
that these schools will be adequately staffed and used to full capacity.
3.07      The proposed location of the new nursing schools at Bouake and
Korhogo, respectively, was determined by a mapping exercise undertaken by
the Government which identified existing field training opportunities such
as the proximity of a large hospital and a network of dispensaries,
maternities, and MCH centers, and an adequate level of functioning public
health activities. An equally important consideration was the availability
of practicing medical staff who could serve as teachers and field tutors.
3.08      Construction plans for the new schools would be similar. Total
area for each school would amount to about 5100m2. In addition to
furniture and equipment, each school would be provided with seven vehicles
including three vehicles for administrative personnel, two vehicles for
supervision of nurse field training activities, and two 20-seat buses for



-19-
transporting students to and from training sites. An implementation
schedule of civil works for the three schools is shown at Annex 1, Table
10.
3.09      Each of the two new schools would require a full time
professional staff comprising a director, a technical administrator
(superintendent), a budget manager, 3 senior nurse instructors (1 per
class), and 12 nurse instructors (to achieve a desired ratio of 1 nurse
instructor to 20 nursing students, as currently exists in the Treichville
school), and an administrative support staff consisting of 2 secretaries
and a file clerk. Moreover, each school would need to hire support staff
of about 18, including drivers, cooks, and maintenance personnel. Other
operating costs include student stipends, food, supplies, worker uniforms,
maintenance of civil works and equipment, vehicle operation and maintenance
and utilities.
3.10       Training of New School Staff.  In anticipation of the personnel
needs described above, the project would finance 36 2-year fellowships to
crain incumbents for each of the professional positions required to staff
both schools. They would be sent for training in Dakar (Senegal) and
Yaounde (Cameroon) (WHO approved) schools where 4 student places per school
per year have already been secured. Candidates for the first year have
already been selected. Six additional 2-year fellowships would be provided
for nurse instructors who would eventually replace expatriate staff at the
Treichville school in accordance with overall Government policy to
encourage Ivorianization. Candidates selected for the school director and
senior nurse instructor fellowships, and subsequently assigned to those
positions, need a certain amount of practical training which is also
included in the project. Candidates for the director position must have at
least two years of professional experience as a senior nurse instructor;
and candidates for nurse instructor positions must have completed at least
one year as a nurse tutor in the field. The award of fellowships and the
completion of prerequisite practical experience is being phased to meet the
staffing needs of the schools' which would build up to full capacity two
years after the opening date.
b. Redesigned Curriculum
3.11      In order to enhance the quality of basic training, the project
would implement an improved curriculum, redesigned during project
preparation. This new curriculum was developed to fill major gaps in the
teaching content and to remedy the lack of prior exposure of students to
field work during basic training. The curriculum was reviewed by the Bank
and found satisfactory. During project implementation, the new curriculum
and training programs would be evaluated and improved upon as appropriate.
Specifically, the revised curriculum would strengthen training in the
following areas:  public health management; administration of primary care
and maternal and child health care, including nutrition, family planning
and health education. It gives greater emphasis to preventive and public
health measures and would prepare nurses to be effective agents of change
within the community. Field training programs will focus on MCl services
including nutrition education, family planning and community health (see
para. 3.25).



-20-
3.12      The project would strengthen the quality of nurse training by
equipping the existing and two new nursing schools with training
materials. The project would provide educational equipment, including
-textbooks and teaching materials for demonstration purposes and equip the
libraries of each nursing school. The project would provide printing and
graphic equipment and materials to each of the nursing schools. It would
also provide 7.5 months of short-term technical assistance to help the
Sub-Directorate of Medical and Paramedical Training to coordinate the
production of textbooks among the three schools.
c. Field Training for Student Nurses
3.13      The revised curriculum requires that each student nurse complete
a total of 10 weeks of field training during the 3-year program.
First-year students would complete 2 weeks of fieLd training in a
peri-urban health facility which would focus on conmmity health problems.
During the second year, 4 weeks of field training in a rural facility would
expose students to public health programs, particularly maternal and child
health care. The field training planned for the third and last year of
nurse training, a 4-week residence in a rural health facility, would give
students first-hand experience in couminity health.  Field training would
take place in 11 medical districts located in 3 geographic areas
surrounding the schools' respective locations at Abidjan, Bouak6, and
Korhogo (Map: IBRD 18942R). For reasons of absorptive capacity, classes
would be divided into 2 groups of trainees of about 40 each, whose field
training would take place at two different times during the school year.
Implementation of all field training activities would be phased according
to school openings and student intakes (Annex 1, Table 11). The project
would support the implementation of this program as described below.
(i) Student Housing and Transportation. The project would
provide simple accomodations for 2 to 4 student nurses in
each of the 70 health centers selected as field training
sites and buses where required for transportation.
(ii) Training of Nurse Tutors. In order to carry out the fieLd
traning program, one nurse from each of the 70 rural
facilities selected for the internship program would be
trained as nurse tutors.  Under the supervision of nurse
instructors, nurse tutors would be responsible for
theoretical and practical training of nurse interns in the
field.  Training of nurse tutors would be conducted at the
medical district level by the  medical officer and nurse
instructors.
(iii) Supervision of Field Training Activities. During their
teld training period, student nurses would be under the
responsibility of the medical district officer and his
deputy, but would be given practical training by the head
nurse practicing at each facility or nurse tutor. Nurse
instructors from the schools would supervise field training,
reporting both to the district medical officer and to the
school. A ratio of 1 nurse instructor to 6 facilities would
allow at least 2 visits per health facility during field
training. A regional management and training coordinator



-21-
be appointed for each of the three regions covered by the project
and would be given specific responsibilities to assist district
medical officers and their deputies to supervise nurse tutors and to
promote the development of basic health services iu the 70 selected
health centers (see para 3.25).
d. Strengthening of the Capacity of the Directorate of Manpower.
3.14      Currently, the MOPEP's Directorate of Health Manpower lacks the
capacity to- implement and evaluate formal training programs . In an effort
to rectify this situation the project would provide 7.5 months of
short-term technical assistance and training of staff to: (a) assist in
coordinating and overseeing the effective implementation of the nurse
training programs proposed for the three schools; (b) establish and
implement a monitoring and evaluation system, including epidemiological
surveys, which would facilitate ongoing improvement of curricula and
training programs, and (c) elaborate a health manpower plan for auxiliary
staff based on data provided from the m.nageumnt information system to be
established under the project (see para. 3.17) and from a review of the
role and functions of auxiliaries and community workers. The Government
has agreed to study the functions and long-term role of auxiliary health
workers and to submit to the Bank for coument, by June 30, 1988, a plan for
their long-term utilization.
2. Strengthening of the Management Capacity of NOPHP
3.15      The Government is well aware of the inefficiencies of health
services at all levels and gives high priority to addressing this problem.
At the Central Directorate level, as shown earlier (paras 2.13-2.15), MOPHP
is suffering from an almost complete absence of reliable data on its
existing resources. This situation, combined with lack of training of
senior level staff In managem ent and administration, makes it difficult for
MOPHP to evaluate and control the use of scarce resources and to plan and
program their effective use. At the hospital level, performance has also
been poor because of a lack of staff with managerial skills (para. 2.13).
At the basic health care level, management training and mnagerial support
are required to improve the efficiency of health service delivery. The
project would address these issues as detailed below.
a. Central Directorates
3.16      Establishment of a Management and Organization Bureau.  Under the
project, a Management and Organization Bureau (MOB) would be established
within MOPHP, reporting to the Minister of Health, and responsible for
providing assistance to the Committee of Central Directors and the Central
Directorates of MOPEP to: (i) identify priority areas for efficiency
improvement; (ii) define strategies and develop appropriate programs; (iii)
oversee program implementation and muvitor progress; and (iv) evaluate
performance and revise programs accordingly. The MOB would have a
professional staff of seven (three expatriate experts in health/hospital
management, who would be provided by French bilateral assistance, and four
Ivorians, and would also receive 7.5 months of short-term tecbnical
assistance in implementation to be provided by the project. It would serve
as a central repository for collection and analysis of management
information (see paragraph 3.17 below) and would also serve as a training



-22-
location for high level managers.  The schedule of project management
activitieei to be followed by this unit is given in Annex 1, Table 12.
Given the central role of this unit in the development of management
-activities, and the need to ensure that it is fully operational,
establishlnent and adequate staffing of this unit would be a condition of
loan effe:-tiveness.
3.17      Establishment of a Management Information System (MIS).  The
project wouD provide short-term technical assistance for planning (3
months), design of computer applications (5 m,nths), and for resource
inventory to assist MOPHP in developing a basic mnagement information
system (5 months). This would be of particular importance for the
Financial Directorate in obtaining and utilizing financial data necessary
for establishment of accounting and financial control systems, and for the
Directorate of Health Manpower in better planning and managing the health
system's human resources (see para. 3.14). The MOB would study mnagement
information requirements for MOPHP (including hospitals) and develop a
methodology for processing and analyzing this information. The MIS would
also include the collection and analysis of epidemiological data in the
project areas, which would provide a basis for evaluating the performance
of health services under the project. This epidemiological uvnitoring
would be carried out by HOPHP's Directorate of Public Health with technical
support from the National Institute of Public Health. The Government
agreed that a detailed plan for establishment of the MIS will be submitted
to the Bank for approval by April 30, 1986 and that a definition of the
technical specifications of computer requirements for the MIS will be
submitted to the Bank for approval by November 30, 1986.
3.18      Improvement in Planning and Operation of selected Directorates.
Assistance to MOPHP's Directorate of Maintenance and Equipment would be
provided to support development of a maintenance system for buildings and
equipment and a longer term maintenance policy,'as well as to supervise
ongoing programs. Short-term technical assistance (4 wonths) would be
provided to develop specific maintenance programs. Training of 6 months
duration for twelve staff of the Directorate would also be provided to
strengthen capacity to carry out and supervise the programs. The project
would also support measures to improve the performance of the Central
Pharmacy by reducing costs and improving efficiency. Under the proposed
project, a diagnostic study of the Pharmacy's procurement practices and
stock management procedures would be carried out under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, which would identify present deficiencies and
propose remedies. This study, along with proposals for remedying
deficiencies, would be submitted to the Bank for review by
December 31, 1986. Consultative seminars involving key medical personnel
would be organized in order to define a list of essential drugs, which
would help to reduce unnecessary purchases and improve the utilization of
funds available to the Pharmacy. The project would also assist in
improving drug storage and distribution. About 8.5 mnnths of technical
assistance would be provided to support these improvements in the Central
Pharmacy.
b. Hospitals
3.19      MOPHP is committed to the improvement of management performance
and to limit the rate of growth of funding requirements for hospitals



-23-
by training staff in management, developing managerial programs, setting up
an appropriate cost-containment system, and introducing cost-recovery
mechanisms in the university hospitals of Treichville and Cocody and the
regional hospitals of Bouake, Korhogo, Daloa, Abengourou and Man, with the
intent of extending cost recovery to other levels of the system. The
Government considers the principal hospitals as suitable priorities for
initiating management improvement efforts because these are the largest
single consumers of resources among MOPHP health facilities. The project
would support MOPHP's strategy to strengthen hospital management as
described below.
3.20      Training Programs in Management.  The project would support the
establishment of a professional specialization in health management for
nurses who have already completed the three-year basic training at the
Treichville school and who have practiced for three years, by providing 7
months of technical assistance, pedagogical support and equipment to help
train about 50 nurse supervisors during the project period. Through the
Ivory Coast's existing bilateral technical assistance arrangements with
France, two experts would provide additional technical support to this
program. The Government agreed that this category of health personnel will
be recognized and given appropriate administrative status by December 31,
1986. The project would also provide short-term technical assistance (8
months) for management training, 11 three-year overseas fellowships in
hospital administration and financial management (an additional 3 would be
provided by France), and six overseas fellowships in public health of
six-months duration for two medical officers from each of the 3 project
zones. After training is completed, three-month assignments in hospitals
in the Ivory Coast would be undertaken by specialists in hospital
mAnagement, and for specialists in financial management, six-month
assignments within the MOPHP's Management and Organization Bureau. The
MOB would in this way support and reinforce practical, adaptive
applications of training to specific management problems encountered in the
Ivory Coast.
3.21      Development of cost-control, cost-containment and internal
efficiency mechanisms. To improve financial management in the seven most
important hospitals (para. 3.19) starting with the two CHUs, the project
would support the introduction and establishment of basic accounting
systems, as no comprehensive accounting or financial information exists at
present on which to develop cost-containment measures. The project would
provide for the collection of adequate data, the setting-up of stock
accounting and the development of internal control procedures as a basis
for instituting cost-containment and for improvement of the quality of
services. A Medical Consultative Committee would be established in each
hospital to monitor progress and report to the hospital directors. The
project would include short-term technical assistance (7 months) for the
establishment of accounting systems, for the development of appropriate
computer software, and provide computer and office equipment. In addition,
semi-annual seminars would be conducted by MOPHP to follow up on progress.
With the help of improved financial information generated by the MIS, MOPHP
would study alternative cost recovery options and submit the results of the
study to the Bank for review by June 30, 1987. It would subsequently
submit an action plan for establishment of a health cost recovery system to
the Bank by December 31, 1987.



-24-
3.22      Strengthening of Selected Hospital Services.  The project would
strengthen three key services in the CHUs viz. food, hygiene, and the
hospital pharmacies. In-service training would be provided through the MOB
for the heads of these services. The hospital kitchens would be renovated
and re-equipped, and short-term technical assistance (3 months) would be
provided to define and supervise implementation of programs to improve
services. Hygiene is expected to be improved through more efficient
cleaning services, the development of hygiene standards and appropriate
measures of disinfection and sterilization. The hospital pharmacies are
expected to benefit from improvements in the management of the Central
Pharmacy, and uould at the same time be supported in undertaking efforts to
improve storage, distribution, and utilization of medicines.
c. Basic Health Services
3.23      To develop a body of experience in managing basic health
facilities and programs, the proposed project would support MOPHP in
strengthening in-service training and supervision of health center staff,
which would serve as a first step in developing a model for the delivery of
basic health care in urban and rural areas and providing appropriate
training and supervision for front-line health workers.
3.24      Specifically, the project would focus on the in-service training
program and supervision of the staff of 70 health centers located in the
nurse field training areas.  These centers, which report to 11 medical
districts, cover about one third of Ivory Coast's rural population. The
health centers would be expected to provide basic health care, including
ante- and post-natal care and immunization, as well as advice to mothers on
breast feeding, weaning practices, birth spacing and nutrition. The health
center staff would be trained to carry out home visits to identify
malnourished children, inform mothers about immnnization needs, to identify
cases of infectious diseases and provide health and personal hygiene
education linked to water supply, and advise mothers on family planning.
These activities would be integrated into a national five year project
supported by UNICEF into a family welfare education project, supported by
UNFPA and into a Public Health project, nupported by the Belgian Technical
Cooperation Program in the Korhogo training area.
3.25      The project would strengthen the management effectiveness and
performance of basic health services through:
(i)   In-Service Training* To ensure optimal utilization of
resources, health staff (Tabout 20 medical district officers,
including deputies, 100 nurses, 50 midwives, and 150 health
auxiliaries) working in the 70 designated health centers, would
receive training which would include health facility management and
administration. The National Institute of Public Health with the
collaboration of nurse schools and the Sub-Directorate of Medical
and Paramedical Training, would design and organize this in-service
training.
(ii) Supervision and Evaluation Programs. The project would
support a program of regular supervision whereby health center staff



-25-
training would be reinforced through regular visits of regional
management and training coordinators who would provide technical
support and guidance. As mentioned in para 3.13, these coordinators
would be designated to assist deputy district medical officers to
supervise health center staff training. Evaluation of the
effectiveness of nurse training and of sumnageent program in MC!
services would be carried out by the MOB and the Directorate of
Manpower under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and would
be designed to identify any deficiencies and propose remedies. The
findings would be submitted to the Bank for review by December 31,
1987 for the Treichville field training area ard by December 31,
1989 for the Bouake area on the basis of which proposed improvements
would be made.
(iii) Provision of minor building renovation and equipment required
for the proper functioning of the 70 health centers. As these
centers were selected to serve as rural training centers on the
basis of relatively good functioning, renovation and equipment needs
are likely to be minor, costing about CFAF 6 million (US$12,000
equivalent) per facility.
To ensure the avallability of managerial support for the nurse field
training programs (para. 3.13) and for the promotion of basic health
services at the 70 health centers, a regional managemaent and training
coordinator would be appointed at each of the three project zones and
provided with an appropriate operating budget, in accordance with the field
training schedule.
Part B. Population Data Development
3.26      To provide adequate and up-to-date information on population
growth and demographic trends as a basis for sectoral planning and
development of population policies, a program of demographic data
collection, analysis and dissemination would be carried out. Its principal
elements would be a census of localities, a population census, a
post-census survey to check coverage and to collect mortality and fertility
data if not already collected, a migration survey, publication and
dissemination of the results, and semndars to help integrate demographic
factors into the planning process. The timetable for the census program is
given in Annex 1, Table 13.
1. Institutional Strengthening and IlprovementE of Population
Data
a. Strenthening of the Lirectorate of Statistics
3.27      Following promulgation of the necessary legal instruments and
decrees authorizing a census to be held, a census work program would be
carried out by a Census Bureau to be established within the Directorate of
Statistics. This Bureau would be under the general supervision of a
National Census Committee (NCC) comprising senior level representatives
from all Ministries, and would oversee population data development and
ensure a constant channel of comimmication between high-level ministry
authorities on the one-hand, and population data collection activities on
the other. In addition to financing the bulk of the demographic work
program described in detail below (paras. 3.30 - 3.32), the project would
support the establishment and strengthening of the Census Bureau to ensure



-26-
its functLoning as an effective entity. The Census Bureau would be created
largely from the existing pool of staff the Directorate of Statistics and
thus would generate only modest incremental recurrent costs. It would
consist of a central office, including a Census Director and Census
Operations Director and six other divisions: Finance and Personnel, Data
Collectiotn, Data Processing, Cartography, Publication and Coding, anl
Archives. Establishment and adequate staffing of the Census Bureau would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. The Census Bureau's ongoing
operations would include maintenance of census and survey records,
production of additional tabulations as required, maintaining and regular
updating of the files of localities created by the Census of Localities,
and planning and timely preparation of future censuses. The project would
also strengthen the Regional Statistical System by staffing regional
statistical offices to undertake routine data collection in the future.
The Government agreed that, following completion of the census, it will
continue to provide adequate staff and budgetary resources to maintain the
files of localities and census and survey records and to update annually
the files of localities.
3.28      Close collaboration with all Government ministries though the NCC
would be maintained at all stages of project implementation in order to
ensure rapid and smooth integration of the data into the planning process,
ar well as the widest possible internal dissemination of the results. The
-ensus and survey questionnaires and the tabulation program would be drawn
up in consultation with all Ministries to determine the information most
needed for Government planning and administration, bearing in mind its
potential uses and applications, and particularly its integration into
planning and project work. The location of the Directorate of Statistics
in the Ministry of Economy and Finance should greatly aid this integration.
b. Improvement of Population Data
3.29      The census of localities would consist of identification,
mapping, and creation of a computerized descriptive file for every
inhabited site in the country, including towns, villages, hamlets and
groups of camps. The results in the form of maps and descriptive
information on each area are necessary for the division of the country into
enumeration areas and for the use of enumerators in the population census.
The creation of a descriptive file is also designed to provide a continuing
useful base in itself, properly maintained and periodically updated, for
subsequent surveys, for the design of development projects and for routine
local government administration.
3.30      Population Census.  Preparatory activities including staff
training would be carried out before the census, in addition to the
collection and processing of Census of Localities data. The preparatory
activities include the design of the census and post-enumeration survey
questionnaires, the design and implementation of publicity campaigns, and
the design and implementation of a phased training program. Field work
training programs would be phased to run successively from the most senior
staff to the field workers. Training would begin with the Census Bureau
personnel in Abidjan, who would then proceed to train department
supervisors at various regional locations, each of whom, in turn, would
train enumerators and field supervisors in each prefecture or town. Data
processing personnel would be trained in Abidjan. Training of enumerators
and field supervisors would last 15 days, and training of data processing
staff would last one to two mnths. Appropriate training manuals would be
prepared for each category of personnel. Close collaboration would be
maintained throughout with the data processing staff to easure smooth



-27-
functioni-g later for the data processing systems. A publicity campaign
would be designed to reach all sections of the population through all
possible media channels. A Census Publicity Commission would be created to
oversee the design and implementation of the campaign. The following is
the sequence of principal activities to be undertaken; a detailed
implementation program of census activities is given in Annex 1, table 13.
(i) A pilot census would be carried out in March 1986, one year
before the Population Census, in order to test census
questionnaires, training, organization, and data processing
procedures. About 50 enumerators would be used, and both
urban and rural areas would be covered.
(ii) The Population Census would take place in March 1987 and
would last for 2 weeks. It would be carried out by about
11,000 enaumerators under the supervision of 2,200 field
supervisors, 55 prefectoral supervisors, and 320
sub-prefectoral supervisors. The country's administrative
departments would be organized into groups (zones) with a
Census Bureau staff member in charge of each group. These
zone leaders would oversee all phases of the census
operation and the staff in their respective zones. The
precise scope of the questionnaire would be determined in
the course of census preparation, but would follow
international norms.  The census is intended to furnish a
sampling frame and data base for further research and
surveys for population projections and policy formulation as
well as for general economic development planning.
(iii) One month after the census a post-enumeration survey would
be carried out to evaluate census coverage and quality using
sub-prefectoral supervisors as enumerators. Mortality and
fertility data would also be collected if these topics have
not been already included in the census.
(iv) Following the population census, a Migration Survey would be
carried out. A detailed plan for this survey has yet to be
developed, but may consist of two phases. The first would
be a base line survey integrated into the post-enumeration
survey, and the second a revisit exactly one year after the
census to the same sample of bouseholds and enumeration
areas in order to capture moves over a precisely defined
time period. During the second phase, detailed
retrospective migration histories would also be collected
from a sub-sample. The detailed plan will be drawn up by a
group of experts in migration surveys at a workshop to be
held in Abidjan in the second half of 1986, and would make
full use of migration data already collected through the
LSMS system. Bank approval of the plan for the migration
survey would be a condition of disbursement under the loan
for this category of expenditures.
3.31      Data Processing and Analysis.  As is normal practice, a
preliminary hand tabulation would be carried out in Abidjan to produce



-28-
provisional population totals by administrative units 3-4 munths after the
census. A consistency check would then be run by 29 verifiers, followed by
codification, undertaken by 116 codifiers divided into 4 teams . These
operations wil take approximately 11 months.  Data entry would also take
11 munths, using 80 staff each provided with a data entry terminal. Most
of this operation would be undertaken in the Data Entry Office within the
Directorate of Statistics but an additional 27 machines would have to be
rented for about a year of operation. Codification and data entry would be
carried out in parallel, with the latter operation one month behind the
former operation. Data processing would take place in the Sub-Directorate
of Information in the Directorate of Statistics and in the Central
Computing Office. As a solid basis for monitoring and supervision of the
census activities to be financed under the project, as well as to ensure
that good progress has been made in pre-project start-up activities, the
Government has agreed to submit to the Bank by January 31, 1986, a Master
Plan of census and survey activities to be undertaken during the project
period. The Master Plan would include a timetable of activities, the
proposed questionnaires, and an outline of the methodology for the census
of localities, the national population census, the post-census survey, and
the migration survey, as well as arrangements for processing and analysis
of census data. Bank approval of this Master Plan would be a condition of
disbursement for census activities under the loan.  The Government aiso
agreed to submit to the Bank an updated version of the Master Plan by
December 31 of each year, as well as to provide quarterly progress reports
on census activities already undertaken.
2. Dissemination of Results and Integration of Population Data
into National P1 E_ning
3.32      Provisional results from the census, consisting of population
totals for administrative units are expected to be published by the fall of
1987. Final census and survey results consisting of detailed tables of
population totals and characteristics as well as a series of analytical
reports, would be published by the end of 1989. Tabulations would also be
made available earlier and informally, as soon as they are produced, to
Government departments that need them. The Government agreed that it will
provide to the Bank the preliminary official results of the census by
October 1987 and final results of the census and its attendant surveys as
soon as they become available. Publication of both the provisional and the
final results would be accompanied by a series of seminars for both
Government and non-government participants, to publicize population trends,
to promote discussion of their consequences and to integrate demographic
factors into the planning process. In the course of analysis of the
results an appropriate set of follow-up studies would also be designed on
issues raised by the results.



-29-
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Projeot Cost
4.01          The total cost of the project is estimated at US$29.7 million
equivalent, including customs duties and taxes estimated at US$4.8 million
equivalent (paragraph 4.03). The estimated costs and foreign exchange
components, given in Annex 1, T 14 are summarized in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1
Project Cost Sum_ary
(CFA Nillion)            (USf Million)                  Z Total
S-Z Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreisn Total  Exchanse    Costs
A. HEALTH SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT
1. MAMPOMER DEVWOPhENT
NURSING SCHOOLS                        3,672.3 2P595.8  6,258.1    7.5        5.3  12.9           41       53
FIELD TRAINING PR06RAMS                   181.0   118.2    29m.2    0.4       0.2   0.6           39         3
Sub-Total MANPOVER DEUELOPMENT            3,853.3 2,704.0  6.557.3    7.9        5.5  13.4           41        56
2. MAENAGEENT
CENTRAL HINISTRY                          329.9   369.5    699.4    0.7       0.8   1.4           53         6
HOSPITAL SYSTEM                           408.4   429.6    837.0    0.8       0.9   1.7           51         7
BASIC HEALTH SERVICS                      395.5   206.1    591.6    0.B       0.4   1.2           35         5
Sub-Total MANAGEMENT                       1,123.9 1,004.3  2,128.0    2.3       2.0   4.3           47        19
3. POJECT MANAGEMENT
AND ADMINISTRATION                         78.3   106.8    185.1    0.2       0.2   0.4           se         2
4. REPAYMT OF PPF                            112.9   127.2    240.1    0.2       0.3   0.5           53         2
Sub-Total HEALTH SYSTEM IROVEENT              5.168.3 39942.2  9,110.5   10.5        8.0  18.6          43        79
B. PULATION DATA DEELOENT
1. CENSUS OF LOALITIES                       165.2    20.9    186.1    0.3       0.0   0.4           11         2
2. 1987 POULATION CENS                     1Y719.2   452.7  2171.9    3.5       O.?   4.4           21        19
3. POST-ENSUS ACTIVITIES                     151.4   112.0    263.4    0.3       0.2   0.5           43         2
Sub-Total POPULATION DATA DEELOPET            2,035.7   595.7  2,621.4    4.2        1.2   5.3          22        22
Tctal BASELIINE COSTS                           7.204.0 49527.9 11731.9   14.7         9.2  23.9          39       100
Ph!iical Contingecies                          328.7   333.4    662.:    0.7       0.7   1.4           50         6
Price Contingencies                          1,401.0   777.4  2,179.4    2.9        1.6   4.4          36        19
Total PROECT COSTS                              BY933.7 53638.7 14,57.4   18.2    11.5  29.7              39       124



-30-
4.02      Cost estimates of the three nursing schools, which constitute the
principal civil works element of the project, were prepared by the MOPHP
and the Directorate for Control of Major Works (DCGTX) on the basis of
preliminary design studies undertaken by MOPHP. These estimates were
reviewed by Bank staff and found to be acceptable. The standards proposed
by MOPHP are for functionally appropriate buildings to a modest standard of
finish. The average cost per square meter of construction, $300 equivalent
(net of taxes), compares favorably with similar facilities financed in Bank
projects in the Ivory Coast and in the West Africa region. Dormitory
facilities for the two new schools represent about 37% of respective
construction costs. A minimum of staff housing, two units at each of the
three nursing schools, would be provided.
4.03      Customs Duties and Taxes.  The project is not exempted from
taxation regulations of the Borrower. Items imported for the project will
be subject to import duties and taxes at prevailing rates. Total taxes
included in the total project cost are estimated at US$4.8 million.
4.04      Contingency Allowances.  For unforeseen physical conditions, 10%
has been added to the base cost of civil works, furniture, equipment, and
vehicles. Estimated price increases are based upon the following annual
percentage rates of price escalation from the base cost date (June 1985) in
accordance with the implementation schedule of civil works (Annex I,
TIO)1/.
Table 4.2
Calendar Year                  1985        1986       1987-90
construction
Fbreign (Z)                    5.0         7.5         8.0
Local (Z)                      7.0         7.0          7.0
Othe
Local and  breign (Z)          5.0         7.5          8.0
4.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component of
US$11.5 million equivalent or 40Z of total project costs has been
calculated as follows: (a) civil works 45%, (b) architectural fees 40%,
(c) furniture and equipment 65%, (d) vehicles 45%, (e) material 50%, (f)
expatriate technical assistance 100Z, (g) local consultants nil,
(h) fellowships 100%, (i) training nil, and (j) project preparation
facility 50%.
I/The estimated price increases are in accordance with February 1985 OPN
Muidelines on expected price increases.



-31-
B. Financing Plan and Incre-mntal Recurrent Costs
A.06      Of the total project cost of US$29.7 million equivalent, World
Bank participation would be through a loan of US$22.2 rillion equivalent
representing 89Z of the total project cost net of taxes and duties. USAID,
through the U.S. Bureau of Census, would provide about US$200,000 of
short-term technicaL assistance (particularly in cartography and data
processing) during program implementation. The loan would finance all
foreign exchange costs (except for the USAID contribution) and 60X of local
costs as follows:
Table 4.3
FInancin Pilan
(UB$ Million Equivalent)
VS Juweu                  Total            Dbtl
of      (bveru-       (met of         Thcluding
Census     Mnt  [DBD         e)  Tares  Taes
Civil Works              -            -      7.2   7.2     2.9    10.1
Professional Fees         -           -      0.2   0.2      *       0.2
Furniture, 3poimmt        -           -
Vehicles, MateriaLs       -           -      3.1   3.1      1.5     4.6
Technical Assistunce       0.2        -      2.5   2.7     -        2.7
Cnsultants,  eloiips
Training
Project Preparation                   -      0.5   0.5     -        0.5
Advance
Census Activities                     0.6   3.1   3.7      0.2      3.9
Migration Survey                      -      0.5   0.5     0.1      0.6
Realth Operatiog Cu ts                 1.9   2.0   3.9     0.1      4.0
Unallocated                                  3.1   3.1     -        3.1
TOTAL                      0.2        2.5  22.2  24.9      4.8    29.7
*less than 0. 1 million
In addition to the above, and not included in project costs, France would
provide three experts for the MOB, two experts for the nurse training
program iu health management, and three public health specialists as
regional coordinators, in the framework of its ongoing bilateral program in
the health sector. It would also continue to provide a demographer in the
Directorate of Statistics.  For the census program, UNFPA has approved a
contribution of US$500,000 for the program, largely to finance the costs of
pre-project demographic activites in connection with preparation of the



-32-
census of localities, and would continue to be associated with the program
during implementation. UNECA would also provide a regular schedule of
short-term technical assistance to program planning and supervision.
4.07      Incremental Recurrent Costs:  During the period 1981-84, the
health sector's share of the Government's total operating budget ranged
from 7.0% to 7.7%, and it is unlikely that this share would exceed an
average of 7.5% per annum over the next 10 years. Given the very serious
budgetary constraints the Government is currently experiencing, and the
added financial problems particular to the health sector, the proposed
project was designed to keep incremental recurrent costs to a minimum
through strong emphasis on efficiency improvement. As appraised, the
project would generate an annual increment in recurrent costs by the
project's end of CFAF 762 million (US$1.6 million equivalent) in current
prices (Annex 1, Table 15). Of this amount CFAF 380 muillion (US$0.8
million equivalent) would be the responsibility of the MOPHP operating
budget constituting, mhen inflated to 1991 prices, an increment of 0.7Z of
the projected budget for that year. This modest incremental cost is
considered to be well within the financial capabilities of the Government.
These costs include operating expenses of the two new schools and the
cumulative salaries of graduates of these schools whose numbers would
increase by 160 annuially. Although this latter phenomenon would constitute
a significant and growing expense until 1992, by which time all nurse
schools would operate at their full capacity, it should be noted that
against a backdrop of rapid population growth, this increment in nurses J8
necessary if over the next 10 years a major deterioration In the already
low nurse to population ratio is to be avoided (Annex 4).
4.08      The Government's projected health budget is considered adequate
to cover financing of these incremental recurrent costs. The proposed
financing plan would facilitate a gradual assumption on the part of the
Government of this additional recur-ent cost burden; IBRD would finance
these costs on a declining perceneage basis such that by the project's end
(year 6) the Government would be financing these costs in their entirety
(see Table 5.2).
4.09      On September 18, 1984, the Bank approved a PPF advance of
US$490,000 equivalent to assist In financing preparation of preliminary
architectural drawings, cost estimates, and bidding documents for upgrading
the Treichville school and for construction of the two new schools. The
funds also finance start-up activities for the training component including
nurse teacher fellowships, technical assistance for curriculum development,
and initial development and start-up of the field training program through
rehabilitation of selected health centers and training of monitors.



-33-
V. PROJECT DMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, ACCOUNTING AND
REPORTING
A. Implementation
'5.01     Status of Project Preparatiou. For the health component, the
Project Coordination Committee (FCC) has been established and key staff
have been appointed to the Project Office. Sites for the three nursing
schools have been acquired and surveyed. Architectural consultants for the
Treichville and Bouake schools have been appointed and bidding documents
for these schools are expected to be available on schedule by the end of
December 1985. Architects for the Korhogo school would be selected by
December 1986 in accordance with the implementation schedule and on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Selection and placemt of students
for overseas fellowships beginning in September/October 1985 has already
begun, and the in-service training program for staff of the Treichville
field training area is expected to begin in September 1985. Appointment of
key staff for the NOB is expected to be completed by December 1985. For
the population data development component, most of the essentiaL staff are
already employed within the Directorate of Statistics. UNFPA has approved
financing of pre-project activities in 1985, and cartographic work for the
census of localities has already begun.
5.02     Schedule. The proposed project would be imlemented over a
period of six and a half years from the date of effectiveness including six
maths for completion of withdrawals. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1991, with a closing date of June 30, 1992.
5.03     Part A. Minis try of Health: Construction and rehabilitation
works are expected to start by May 1986 on the Treichville and Bouake
sites. Completion is planned for October 1987, the start of the academic
year. Bidding documets for these schools are expected to be available by
loan effectiveness. A third school (Korhogo) is planned for construction
during 1988 to correspond to the availability of nurse training
instructors.
5.04     The Directorate of Maintenance and Equipment of MOPBP will
prepare construction and implementation programs for the minor upgrading
works necessary to provide accommodation for nursing students at 70 health
centers widely dispersed throughout the regions of Abidjan, Bouake, and
Korhogo. For the implementation of these minor works each costing less
than CFAF 6 million (US$12,000 equivalent), procedures for technical and
financial control have been developed by MPEP that are acceptable to the
Bank.
5.05     Part B. Ministry of Finance: Preparation activities for the
Census of Localities that Wil be held early in 1986 will be financed
almost entirely by UNFPA. This ill serve as a basis for the population
census, to be held in March 1987. A workshop of experts (see para.
3.30 (iv) to produce detailed survey plans for a migration survey wiLl be
held iu late 1986.
B. Administration
5.06     Part A. Ministry of Health. To the extent possible, line
directorates of HOPEP would be responsible for project implementation. To
ensure adequate coordination of NOPEP directorates, other ministries and
agencies involved In the project, a Project Coordination Committee (PCC)
has been created by Ministerial decree. This committee is chaired by the



-34-
cabinet secretary of MOPHP who has also been given responsibility as
project coordinator and the PCC includes representation from principal
MOPUP directorates, the Ministries of Economy and Finance, Public Works,
Construction, Post and Telecommunications, Directorate of Large Public
Works (DCGTX), and the National Institute of Public Health. It will meet
at least quarterly.
5.07      To assist the project coordinator in day-to-day project
administration and to coordinate all parties involved in project
implementation, a project office (PO), has been established. The PO would
have a minimum of full-time staff viz. an administrator/accountant, a nurse
training coordinator detached from and reporting to the Directorate of
Health Manpower, a management coordinator (Director of Financial Affairs),
and secretarial, clerical and other support staff. The projecL would
finance the saLaries of approved full-time staff, two vehicles, and office
equipment and furniture, as well as operating expenditures. The project
would also provide fifteen months of technical assistance to help the
Project Office in supervising and evaluating the training and management
component at regular intervals during the project implementation period.
To permit effective field work and as the budgets of the MOPHP line
directorates are already very tight, the project would finance costs
associated with field travel for key project staff. Such travel would be
administered by the PO and monitored by Bank staff during supervision
missions.
5.08      Technical Assistance and Fellowships.  To the greatest extent
possible, the project would rely on Ivorian expertise for the effective
implementation of the various project components. Certain skills, however,
are not available locally, and the project would finance the costs of about
7*5 years of advisory services and 120 years of fellowships, comprising 42
two-year fellowships for nurse trainers, 11 three-year fellowships in
management and administration, and 6 six-month fellowships in public health
for six Medical Officers (2 per project zone). Details of project-financed
tecnnical assistance are shown in Annex 1, Table 16. Consultants would be
selected in accordance with Bank guidelines, and candidates for fellowships
would be selected following procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.09      Architectural/Engineering Services.  Two architectural consulting
firms have alreaty been selected and appointed on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank for the design of the Treichville and Bouake
schools. For the design of the Korhogo school, consultants would be
selected by the end of 1986 in accordance with the implementation schedule
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The DCGTX, a central
organization under the Presidency, responsible for overseeing, on behalf of
technical ministries all construction contracts exceeding CFAF 700 million
(US$1.4 million equivalent), will undertake supervision of construction and
contract administration for all three schools on behalf of MOPHP. DCGTX is
a well staffed and competent organization with a proven record in this type
of work.
5.10      Site Selection.  Sites for the three nursing schools have already
been identified and surveyed and are appropriate. The availability of land
for the health center sites is not expected to cause any difficulties.



-35-
5.11      Par: B.  Ministry of Finance.  Population censuses and surveys are
administrative operations routlinely undertaken by statistical offices, following
well-establisied standard methodology, and considerable technical assistance in
the form of r.!gular expert advisory missions would be forthcoming from UNFP',
UNECA and the United States Bureau of the Ceisus for the program. Therefore, a
separate proj3ct office was not judged necessary for the demographic component.
The Director of Statistics, who will also be the overall Census Director, would
act as project director. He would be assisted by two full-time professlonal
staff members of the Statistical Office. One would be an administrator to handle
day-to-day project administration, who would be located in the Central Office of
the Census Bureau, the other would be the Deputy Director of Statistics, Division
of Human Resources, who would act as technical director of the project.
5.12      A data processing expert would also be recruited locally, and
supplemental technical assistance would be provided for data analysis: these
would be provided and funded entirely by UNFPA, by UNECA and by USAID, through
the U.S. Bureau of the Census. USAID would also fund training in data processing
up to expert level (through the U.S. Bureau of the Census) for a staff member in
Statistics.
C. Procurement
5.13      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table.
Table 5.1
CUSS Million Equivalent)
Procurement Method    Total Cost             Total Cost
Project Element         ICS   LCD  Other  NWA  Net of Taxes Taxes Including Taxes
Civil works             7.3         1.0    -        8.3        2.9        11.2
(7.3)       (1.0)   -       (8.3)      C-)         (8.3)
Furniture, Equipment,
Material              1.9   1.0   0.2    -        3.1       1.3          4.4
(1.9) (1.0) (0.2)   -       (3.1)      (-)         (3.1)
vehicles                 -    0.6    -      -       0.6        0.2         0.8
-   (0.6)   -     -       (0.6)      (-)         (0.6)
Technical Assistance,
Fellowships            -      -   1.9    -        1.9        -           1.9
_      -  (1.7)   -       (1.7,       -          (1.7)
Arcbitectural/
Engineering Fees     0.3      -    -     -        0.3        -           0.3
(0.3)    -    -     -       (0.3)       -          (0.3)
Training                 -      -   1.1    -        1.1         -          1.1
-      -  (1.1)   -       (1.1)       -          (1.1)
Project Preparation
Facility               -      -    -    0.5       0.5        -           0.5
-  -    -   (0.5)    (0.5)     -          (0.5)
Census Activities        -      -    -    3.9       3.9        0.2         4.1
-      -    -   (3.5)    (3.5)       (-)         (3.5)
Migration Study          -      -    -    0.5       0.5        0.1         0.6
-      -    -   (0.5)    (0.5)       C-)         (0.5)
Operating Costs          -      -    -    4.7       4.7        0.1         4.8
-   (2.6)    (2.6)       (-)         (2.6)
Total                   9.5   1.6   A.2   9.6      24.9       4.8         29.7
(9.5) (1.6) (4.0) (7.1)   (22.2)       (-)        (22.2)
Note:  Figures In parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
Including contingencies.



-36-
5.14      Contracts for construction, furniture, equipment, materials, azd
vehicles would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with IBRD's Guidelines for procurement except as
follows:
(a)  For minor upgrading works at 70 health centers, paragraph
5.04 (US$1.0 million equivalent total including taxes and
contingencies). Contracts would be negotiated by the
Directorate of Maintenazce and Equipment of MOPEP with small
contracting firms operating in the vicinity of the health
center, according to procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(b)  Furniture, vehicles, and equipment contracts costing less
than US$75,000 equivalent (total value about US$1.6 million
equivalent). Such contracts would be awarded following
locally advertiaed competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
tc)  Furniture and equipment contracts costing less than
US$10,000 equivalent (aggregate limit US$200,000) which
would be procured through prudent shopping procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
5.15      Architectural designs, draft tender documents and master lists of
furniture, equipment and materials, and vehicles would be reviewed by the
Bank. Iteum would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage
competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Construction contracts
costing more than US$500,000 and furniture, equipment, vehicles, and
materials contracts costing more than US$75,000 would be subject to Bank
review prior to award. This is expected to result in coverage of about 90X
by value of the total estimated value of civil works contracts and about
75Z of the goods contracts.
5.16      Where ICB procedures are followed, domestic manufacturers would
be allowed a margin of preference of 15Z or the existing applicable rate of
duties, whichever is lover, over the c.i.f. prices of competing foreign
suppliers.
D. Disbursement
5.17      The estimated schedule of disbursement is given in Annex 1, Table
17. Funds from the loan account would be disbursed under the following
categories:



-37-
TS 5.2
im. of La AIoc- Z of EIeiture
category                 tad UB$000 eipdvalet   to be Pfzd
Health Sstem Izruwinmt
1. CIViI 0!k5                       7,000             71;
2.      _1era&            g
Fees                           820
3. Frniture, Eqtipmat,
Vebicles, YAtecla-   2,600                      71I
4. Thdicl Asaistnm- ,
Trainizg                       2,500            1001
5. MM  Operatim Costs               2,000             81 - 3OZ11
6. Refing of Project                  490      mt d as ape
PrEparta Advano                         fied In section
2.02 (c) of lom
7. Unllocated                       2,710     geint
Subtotal                     17,500
aodan Data Deloet
8. Clvll Wrks                         200             71;
9. Furniture, lApiat,
Vehice,   erials                500             8(1
10. Cnsu Activities                  3,100             8(1
11. M gatim Study                      500             85Z
12. UnaLlocated                        400
Subtotal                     4,700
IUIAL                          22,2D0
1/is'xsunts ~Iag      eain ezsteIn this category  3ld be m_e
as follos: 85% imtil totaL               II-tsreahti  equivaeat
of uS$700,000; 6(1 thereafter imdl total   b    n     ach
UM$1,200,000 equvalen    and 30Z tereafter.



-38-
Disbursement includes provision for retroactive financing of US$300,000 for
health activities and US$250,000 for demographic activities, for
expenditures incurred by Government before loan signature and after July 1,
1985. Two revolving funds (Special Accounts) totaling US$1.0 million
equivalent will be set up for the heaLtlt and demographic components in the
respective amounts of US$0.6 millioa and 0.4 million equivalent, under
terms acceptable to the Bank. All Bank financed expenditures would be
pre-financed from the revolving funds unless otherwise agreed to by the
Bank. The funds would be replenished on the basis of withdrawal
applications to be submitted monthly. Claims for expenditures against
contracts, purchase orders or fellowship and training programs of less than
$20,000 equivalent under categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 8 and 9 and all claims
under categories 5, 10 and 11 would be submitted under statements of
expenditure.  All other claim  would be fully documented.
E. Accounting and Reporting
5.18      Local Account.  Government would channel its contribution to the
health component through a Project Account opened at the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CMA) in Abidjan, and would deposit in this account CFAF 75
million as a condition of loan effectiveness.
5.19      Accounts and Audits.  The Project Office in MOPUP and the Census
Bureau in tiLe Directorate of Statistics would operate under Government
financial procedures and their staff would include accountants who would
maintain the necessary records according to procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Annual auditing by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank would
be required for all expenditures financed under the project. The
Government would furnish to the Bank audit reports within six months
following the end of each fiscal year.
5C*20     Reporting and Evaluation.  Overall monitoring, reporting, and
evaluation ot the project would be the responsibility of the respective
implementing agencies which would ensure timely collection of information
needed for the preparation of semi-anntal progress reports and their
submission to the Bank. A project evaluation (Completion) report would be
provided by Government not later than six months after the loan closing
date.
VI. JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
6.01      Health.  The proposed health component would yield the following
direct beneifts:
(a) the quality of nurse training would be significantly enhanced
through the use of a revised curricula which includes family
planning and nutrition, and new field training programs and
through training/retraining of nurse teachers, tutors, and
supervisors;
(b) the nurse output capacity of MOPHP would be expanded through
the provision of two new nursing schools. The increment in
nurse output which is estimated at 1,635 by the year 2002,
would reduce the deficit in nurse requirements from 70% to
30%;



-39-
(c) the managerial/supervisory and technical support capability of
MOPHP would be strengthened in the seven most important
hospitals in the country and in one third of all medical
districts;
(d) the planning and management capacity of MOPHP's central
directorates would be improved through establishment of a
management information systems and in-service training; and
(e) a more rational use of resources, in particular in the most
important hospitals, would be ensured through cost-control,
cost-containment, and internal efficiency measures;
(f) strengthening in-service training and supervisioa of 70 health
centers covering about one third of the Ivory Coast's
population wouLd serve as a first step in developing a national
model for the delivery of basic health care in urban and rural
areas.
6.02      In addition to the above tangible benefits, the proposed project
would make a substantial contribution to institution-building within
MOPHP. Creation of the Management and Organization Bureau would provide an
institutional setting within which to address the full range of management
issues and would facilitate active participation and involvement of all
Directorates in improving performance. Coordination, task definition, and
communication among different health services would be enhanced through
development of a management information system, including epidemiological
mDnitoring, through strengthening the effectiveness of the committee of
MOPHP's central directors (paras. 3.16 and 3.17), and through the
establishment of a financial management system for the uajor hospitals
(para. 3.21).
6.03      Institution building in MOPHP is expected to strengthen the
Ministry's capacity to measure its own performance, to devise better
managerial approaches to health problems, and to formulate and apply policy
reforms in the following key areas: (a) allocation of human, physical, and
financial resources; (b) paramedical manpower development; (c) maintenance;
(d) management of drugs; (e) cost-recovery and (f) improved access to and
quality of basic health services (especially in maternal and child health).
6.04      Population Data Development.  The proposed demographic component
would have the following principal benefits:
Ca) the data base for macro-economic planning, including
modeling, projections, design of development programs and
projects would be substantially improved;
{b) a detailed data base, regularly updated, would be developed
for every locality in the country for use in local
administration, and for planning social services, including
health;
(c) an up-to-date population and cartographic sampling frame
would be available;



-40-
(d) population trends an reveaLed in the census results would
have an impact on the awareness of population issues in the
country and on subsequent readiness to formulate and
impleemnt appropriate popuLation policies;
(e) the capabilities of the Directorate of Statistics in
population data collection would be strengthened through the
experlence acquired in the course of the census program, and
the institution building (most of it permanent) that would
be carried out to met the needs of the program.
B. Risks
6.05      Health.  The proposed health couponent is subject to the risks
associated with a first project in the sector prIncipaLly with MOPHP
inexperience. The implewentation risk has been reduced in the following
ways: (a) by entrusting management and supervision of most costly
component (construction of schools) to an experienced organization, the
DCGTX, (b) by establishing a project office and a Management and
Organization Bureau for development and follow-up of management activities
that would be supported-by a skilled staff and by technical assistance for
supervision and evaluation of each project component.
6.06      Population Data Development.  National census and survey
operations ot the klnd included in the program are routineLy undertaken by
statisticaL offices in all parts of the world. Census oethodology and
organization are generally well understood and a vast body of experience
has been accumulated to serve as a guide. Ample technical assistance is
available, and would be forthcoming, froa UWPA, UNECA, the U.S. Bureau of
the Census, and French Technical Assistance. Where the methodology has new
or experimental elements, as in the scope of the cartography or In the
design of the migration survey, full advice and evaluation has been or will
be sought from experts in the field. The Senior Staff of the Directorate
of Statistics have considerable recent experience in demographic and other
data collection (including the Bank-supported Living Standards Measurement
Survey which has begun field operations) and have demonstrated their
ability to collect good-quality data in an efficient manner. In addition,
other Government Ninistries are eager for the census and survey data to be
collected, and will provide full assistance and collaboration at every
stage. As r result, the organizational risks associated with the component
are expected to be manageable.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      The Government provided assurances that:
(a) the three nurse training schools mould be adequately staffed
and used to full capacity (para. 3.04 and 3.0b);
(b)  a reviev of the long-term role of auxiliary health workers
would be undertaken and a plan for their long-term
utilization would be submitted to the Bank for comment by
June 30, 1988 (para 3.14);



-41-
(c) a detailed plan for establishment of the management
information system will be submitted to the Bank for
approval by April 30, 1986 and technical specifications of
computer requirements would be submitted to the Bank for
approval by November 30, 1986 (pars 3.17);
(d)  a study of the Central Phanracy's procurement practices and
stock management procedures would be carried out, and
proposals for remedying deficiencies would be submitted to
the Bank for review by December 31, 1986 (para 3.18);
(e) a study of alternative cost recovery options would be
completed by June 30, 1987, and an action plan for
establishment of a cost recovery system would be submitted
to the Bank for review by December 31, 1987 (para 3.21);
(f) the professional training of nurse specialists in management
would be recognized and given appropriate administrative
status by not later than December 31, 1986 (para. 3.20);
(g) evaluations of the effectiveness of nurse training and
management program would be carried out and submitted to
the Bank for review by December 31, 1987 for the Treichville
area, and by December 31, 1989 for the Bouake area (para
3.25);
(h) a regional management and training coordinator acceptable to
the Bank would be appointed to each of the project zones
(Treichville, Bouake and Korhogo) and provided with an
appropriate operating budget (paras. 3.13 and 3.25);
(i)  following completion of the census, it would continue to
provide adequate staff and budget resources to maintain
census and survey records and to update annually the files
of localities (para. 3.27);
(j) a Master Plan for census activities would be submitted to
the Bank for approval by January 31, 1986 (see para 7.03
below), and would be updated annually thereafter; quarterly
progress reports on census activities undertaken would also
be submitted to the Bank (para 3.31);
(k) preliminary results of the census would be provided to the
Bank by October 1987 and full results of the census and its
attendant studies as soon as these become available (pars.
3.32); and
tl)  an annual audit by independent auditors would be carried out
for all project accounts, auditors would be appointed on
term and conditions acceptable to the Bank and these audits
would be submitted to the Bank no later than six-months
after the end of each fiscal year (para. 5.18).



-42-
7.02   As conditiols of loan effectivenes  the Government mould:
(a)  establish and make its initial deposit into the Project
Account for the health component (para 5.17);
(b)  establish and adequately staff the Management and
Organization Bureau (MOB) In MOPHP (para 3.16); and
(c) establish and adequately staff the Census Bureau In the
Statistical Office of the MEF (para 3.27).
7.03      Bank approval of the Master Plan for census activities (see para
7.01 (j) above) and of the plan for the migration survey would be
conditions of disbursement under the loan for these activities (paras 3.30
(iv) and 3.31).
7.04      On these conditions, a loan of US$22.2 million equivalent for
this project is recommended.



- 43 -
ivw ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ kn
H       AD AW DAKI     Pin=
Ban       DVicAmm RR         WM in  M1'RIC/ MM1ME (1984)
(1)       (2)       (3)        (4)       (5)        (6)          )             (8)
eizh      &w4qe                   s       By per
GP per  lU-1983   Ezth   fMu              blfat   Dqmctucy cita Ciorie    1km
Cqita  Papdati  Phf pw    Mmuth    1trUty  at Dfrth  S;ply (%of               IpAt1a
(us$)     SIze     1000        z         Fte        (yews)   bqirhmt)           (Z)
MZ&7             (1983)  (izllwi)  (1963)       1973-63    (1963)    (1983)        (196)        (1963)
Chad              na.        4.8       42         2.1       142        43           68            20
Hbll              160        7.2       48         2.5       148        45           74            19
Ewk1ina           190       6.5        47         1.9       148        44           79            11
Nler              240       6.1        52         3.0       139        45           105           14
Oat. Afrles Rep. 291        2.5       41          2.3       142        48           97            44
mIbw              280       2.8        49         2.6       112        49           94            22
wrnn              290       3.8        49         2.8       148        48          101            16
Q4frm             300       5.8        49         2.0       158        37           86            26
Qhia              310       12.8       49         3.1        97        59           68            38
SEerrmleoe        330       3.6        49         2.1        98        38           85            23
1bwitalia         480        1.6       43         2.2       136        46           97            25
Sesempl           440       6.2        46         2.8       140        46          101            34
TibeorIa          480       2.1        49         3.3       111        49           98            38
wzrycbant         710       9.5        46         4.6       121        52          115             4
tUgada            770       97.0                 2I7        113
Cin!ueaI          820       10.0       46         3.1       116        54           91            39
cs               1230       2.0        43         3.1        82        63          113            55
1i CbLtcd istw it r amc  WlU= ppLatim.
Source: ibrld Dewveopuat Pport 1985.



-44-
Annex 1
Table 2
IVORY COAST
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
COMPARATIVE HEALTH-RELATED INDICATORS
FOR IVORY COAST AND LOWER MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES*
Ivory Coast   Lower Middle Income Countries
1965   1983            1965       1983
Crude Birth Rate           44      46             45         36
Crude Death Rate           22      14             18         12
Infant Mortality Rate     160    121             127        87
Child Death Rate           37      20             22         11
Life Expectancy at Birth   44      52             49         57
*Countries with a per-capita GNP between US$400 and 1,610 and an average of
US$840
Source:  The World Bank, WoldDvelontRaort1985



IVORY. COAST
UKALTE ANID DQ0CWAHIC PROwCr
LtNXING OF REPORTUD INFECTIOUS AND PARASITIC DISUASES
Ibnthly (1983)
Disease         January   February    March      April      May    June       July   August  September   October  Ibveober Decewber   TOTAL
Dysentery         2,388      3,077    4,268      3,600    3,119    3,590    3,303    3,090        2,507     2,660       3,186     2,747   37,735
Diarrhea         10,785     13,556   14,013    12,168   11,922   12,255    9,692    8,652         7,337     7,817      8,871      7,791  125,059
IWhooping Cough     663        917    1,090        844      957      941       757      967         782       641         720       764   10,243
Tetanus             144          61       95        61       84       33        60       54          45        55          66        55      613
Chleken Pax       2,876      7,057    6,619      3,699    1,97S    1,259       936      682         844       751         629       623   Z1,221
1hauel            2,584      4,278    6,859      5,878    4,45e    3,584    2,5S9    1,780        1,656     1,574       1,958     2,137   39,302
Germn meales        544        612       985       676      697      372       707    1,216         220       237         298       243    6,807
Malaria          39,774     44,368   42,089    41,151   46,566   53,516   51,581   44,983        37,994    40,398      46,162    41,641  S30,223
Yaw               1,976       2,159    2,030     1,793    1,640    1,707    1,386    1,376        1,231      1,475      1,543     1,685   20,003
I4ycoass          1,801       2,241    1,873     2.149    1,814    1,479    1,164    1,692        1,398      1,697.     1,920     1,662   20,890
CulLoa Worm         199         183      180       165      239      137       161      166         132       19S         196       306    2,259
Rouadwmr          4,160       5,664    5,117     4,S93    4,618    5,117    4,043    4,432        3,641     4,815       4,317     4,896   55,413
Others            6,211      6.077    7,030   5.817    4.994    4.692    5.148    3.999           3,45      4.257      4.564      3,630   60,074
TOTAL NMEKR O0
CASES RIFORTED   74,305     90,250   92,318    82,994   83,414   86,549   81,699   73,089        61,242    66,572      74,430    68,180  937,042
Source: National Institute of Publile Heath, National balth Statistics, 1983



- 46 -
Annex I
Table 4
IVORY COAST
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPRIC PROJECT
HEALTH MANPOWER (1981-83)
Doctors             Pharmacists            Dentists
1981   1982   1983    1981   1982   1983    1981  1982  1983
Government workers      204    219    286       77     99    110       27    36    48
Expatriates             158    142    135        9      9      9        4     1     1
Contract workers        135    137    151        9      8      8       23    21    18
Temporary workers         8      7      6
Volunteers                6      4       4
Total                   511    '99    582       95    116    127       54    58    67
Total per 100,000
population           6.2    5.9    6.5      1.2    1.4    1.4    0.65  0.67  0.74
Midwives              Nurses              Nursing Aides
1981   1982   1983    1981   1982   1983    1981  1982  1983
Government workers      694    815    897    1687   1995   2005    1204  1049   910
Expatriates               8      6      5       24     31     31
Contract workers         12     11     10      12B    115    103
Volunteers               67     73     67       99    106     99      103    98    94
Total                   781    905    979    1938   2247   2238    1307  1147  1104
Total per 100,000
population           9.4   10.5   10.9    23.9   26.0   24.9    15.8  13.3  11.2



- 47 -
A1M 
VW~ Oa=TSef
HM    AND  112VPHC EBW
DrSOFW PAMICAL PNR5L BY FA11U'I5 (1983)
Ihaith Faidl1itLe                     IfdursQahsxw   Nizue                Nlizm   de
lier   Z              ber              Nr   z
EpLtdLs                               379    42          1001       48       395    38
eL.th Conte= - Dspetuadim             465    52           676       32       447    43
vrbm_              316   (32)          371      (19)
LlraL              149   (2D)          305      (13)
Sdilmd betibclow                       55      6          38       20        188    19
mthrao f,j                                            15                 13
iol  mdme                          7                 174                 101
labor Mad1ic                                           4                  7
1t.-' Ibath                                           19                  9
14                 35
-            | rs  48                 172                 23
TOTAL                                 899   100          2D75      100      1030   100
eour: IeP  lialmry of Bath * 1*mP en, h& t 1983.



-  48  -                        Anex 1
Table 6
IVORY COAST
HEALTH MAD DMIOGRAPHIC PROJECT
HEATH. BUDGET 1981-1984
(billions CFAF)-
1981      1982      1983       1984
GDP                                   2,336     2,472      2,700     2,855
Total State Budget
Investment                          271.3     300.9      240.6     227.3
Recurrent                           376.0     420.7      435.3     428.9
Health Budget
Investment                            2.7       0.8        4.2       1.3
Percent of Total Investiat            1.0      0.27Z      4.75Z     0.57Z
Recurrent                            28.9      31.6       32.9      29.9
Percent of Total Recurrent            7.69Z     7.51X      7.56Z     6.97X
Recurrent Health Budget
Percent Persomnel                    67.5      68.7       70.5      75.1
Percent Medicines                    10.4       9.5        7.3       8.4
Percent Materials and other          22.1      21.8       22.2      15.7



- 49 -
Annex 1
Table 7
IVORY COAST
HEALTH AND DEKlMOAPHIC PROJECT
HEALTH RECURRENT BUDGET, 1984
(in billions of CFAF)
Hospital Budget
Salaries                                        10,701.6
hospital operation                               2,575.8
urban medicine                                     990.1
Total                                           14,276.5
X of Total Hbealth Recurrent Budget                   .51
Rural Budget
Salaries                                         1,869.3
Rural Operation                                  1,339.8
Total                                            3,209.1
Z of Total Health Recurrent Budget                    .11
Total Health Budget                                28,136.5



IVORY CnASr
HEALlH AND DEWnGRAEqIC PMOJECT
ANNlAL NEEDS FDR NURSES (1981-200?)
ORIGIN OF THE NEEDS                      81 821 83  84  85  86  87  88| 89  9' 911 921 93  94  95  96  97  98  99  00  01  02
Deficit in existing hospitals           100
Deficit in existing rural health
'acilities                             150
New operating hospital beds             115
Development of medical districts         15  15  15  15  15  15  15                                                                             0
- mobile units                                          10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10
Development of preventive medicine:
- MCHI5   5   5   5   5   5  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10
- School health service               20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20
Hospital extensions                          20  20  20  20  30  30  30  30  30  30  30  301 30  30  30  30  30  30  30  30  30
Training of nursing specialists          30  30  30  30  30  30  30  30  50  50  MI 50  50  50  50  50  50  50  50  50  5s  50
Replacement of expatriate nurses                                       15_  1 15    15  15  15  15  15 15  15  15  15  15  15  15
Attrition                              200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 2001200o200 200 200 200 200 200200200  200120_       0
Annual Output Required                  635 305 305 305 315 320 330 330 33C 330 3301330 330 330 330 330 330 330 330 330 3301330
I!J



IMY ODASr
HEAI2  AND) DOEMGRAIIIC PR)JEC
ESrDMED IEFICIT IN NUIRSE. W1 AND WlHItUr THE PFRJECr
(1981-2002)
81  82  83   84   858687  88   89   90   91   92   93   94   95 9                 97   98 99        0  01 02
Needs                                  635 305  33) 315 315 320  330  330  330  330  330  330  330  330  330  3301 330 330 330 330  330  330
A. wflhUr TEE P1JET                     __
Current student utput
- School Treichville                 208  129  195  185  185  185  90   160  160  160  160  160  160  160  160  160  160  160  160  160  160  160
Deficit withcut the project            427  176  110  120  130  130  230  170  17n  170  170  170  170  170  170  170  170  170  170  170  170  170
Cumudative deficit without project    427  603  713 833  963 1093 1323 1493 1663 1833 2003 2173 2343 2513 2683 2853 3023 3193 3363 3533 3703 3873
Total Number of nurses                 1519 1946 2n75 2270 2455 2640 2825 2915 3085 3255 3425 395 3765 3935 4105 4275 4445 4615 4785 4955 512  29
X deficit                                28   31   34   37   39   42   47   51   93  _%  _3   60   62   64   65   67   68   69   70   71   72   73
B. WIM THE PIME__
Additional student output
schools of B)EUA. and In*W._                                                           74   84  147  147  147  147  147  147  147  147  147  147  147
Cumulative deficit with the project   627  603  713 833  963 1093 1323 1493 1663 175 1855 1878 190111924 1947 1970 1933 2016 2039 2062 2085 2108
Total number of rurses                 1519 1946 2075 2270 2455 2640 2825 2915 3085 3319 3553 3860 4167 4474 4781  _M  995 5702 6009 6318 6627 6930
Z deficit                               28  31  34   37  39  42  47   51    3               32   49   46   43  40  38  36  35    34 33    32   30
Recictiao of the % deficit                                                         0    4    7   18   26   33   39   43   46   49   2   _    _        9
SaJre: Ministry of Health of Population - 19R4.
NOt



-is-
3               2am11                        3        2 3  4  1  23 
1. wmvtim  of Tveddwijle Mmmld
U.ed,h Pimi - hAL bArim
Am.dI  M  ild Tlkat        C3)
_ ~           ~
odl ant hI         P  
2. hmk  ,4G
_       _                                          -
Uid hure                                                 -
_d md T D
Aaaociated Wield Trsining Center. (15)
ldamtlflcation                                                                  2XVCN
Prepacatios of Vork Program                                                          0CE0
Conatrulin                                       --
3. Ko_ho School
Building
Appointmet of architect 
Sketch plane - Bank reviewURZ
Vork    Dcalna                                                                                 -O-1mM
Bl Award                                                                                                -
Conatruction--------
Aaoclated Field TradiniX Centers (15)
LdantificstiJn
Preprstion of Vork Prograr
Comtroctio_



- 53 -
Tdile 11 (a)
IVORY COAST
HRALTH AND DEMOGRAPRIC PROJECT
DflMN4~ATI~ SCmM  AND TMZS PR NE            mn        ACFIE
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991   1992   1993
Year  Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 ar 5
Bvdld5Ns
0vatiOn Of frekhvfLle Scoa   nckber
Oparg of BouM  school                    October
CPenzg of libvg, School                                    tDber
Flad MAmning ActivitLes
iPr lreichvlle
Ist Year CLass                           x       x       x        x      x       x      X
2lxd Yea CLa8s                           x       x        x       x              x      x
3rd Year ass                                     x       x        x      x       x  x
lbr Bolc
1St Year Class                          x        x       x        x      X       X
12d Year CLass                                   x        x       X                     X
3td Year CLass                                            x       x      x       x
lbr oxhogp
1st Year CLass                                           x        x      x       x 
2bi Year CLass                                                    x      x
'd Year CLass                                                            x       x      X
Sbideft Ttdme and Proj eCtEd
oitput
St,ximi hatd                    160     240     240      32D     320    32D    32)    32D
Student Outpt                   185      90     160      160     234    234    30B    30B



Mg= AMM&M   MOM                                              ta-; 11 (b)
DWLIN33TAT1   SCIIUIL OF IhALTl &LIMVTIU1
I Imera      1983         I16             1917            19oe           1919            1990
ACTIITUB 
I    ~rtinrh2    3 31    1   2  3  A1    I 2  3  4   1  2   3  4 1    2   3             I J234
 TraLnnig of lbaitor.
lnnwaieent an Selection
of Candidate.
Student placamt
Beginning of Training                                      _ -
o Stminan  for uonh  T ecba r
Identiftcation of Training
Objenttis
Snminar tn Tracewilla
Snminar in ounki
Seminar In obrlogo
o Preparation of Fiald Training
a) Trecbvlle
Ibapital Sarvicm
ld-nttfication of
ratrainilg objectivas
for 1rae nod
Asmlieriea
etraIning of Nwr_ md
Amnilierim of 20
easltb Centers                         I   X   X             X   I         X      X
Retrainin of Paraountl
of l0 lBllth Cant o                                     X   X X                  X            X  X
b) bogaki Unapitel Sarvicac
Uetrding of Persomal
a llalth Cantn                                   X   X   X   I       X   I  X           X 
7 Health  anter                                                  X  X  X    X           X   X           X    X
c) Yorbogo
oapitca lSrvicms
Iraicb,lle
etrairning of Par_aon
O Umiath Cntar                                                    X  XIXXX XX X
7  aindth Center                                                                x   x  x   X            x   x
,          ,   ,   I   I                        I   I                                I



- 55 -
rmn cuJr                             s*4  I
11LUlTl               PUOJIeC IINeS 12
DWLUWATIOU   C51Z 7    M*NAUUUlT AMiVi.Uu
1985           1986            1987            19sB             1989            1990
2  13     11121 314   1  2    3   1   I1213,4   1121314   1  2  13 
Twain5.ng
o 1bqditaL  lannr  (Saic UTeraing)             10
In-Serice Treminim
 Mansgement Suprileor                                   4
(Stage)                                              2               3                3
 Murre Specialist In Jlbapitml
nManomt (asic Training)
Preparation of tdm Pngrm
Firet Trainitg frgr_                                   15
Second Tuafting Program                                               15
Thir Training Prog                                                                   Is
o Pbormeiat for the Central Pharmcy
(Stege) or tbhe C-Co                                   2               2                2
o Mne_r af Central bepitab                                 -2                                    2                2
Services (Stages)
StrethenLng of Cintrel Directoratis
a) Retablishat of rce Manaement   d
Orgaulutino lurets and of the
Cotttee of Directora
b) Idetifctation of Manae_ ment uaformatio
Syutm od ptepration of 1lan
Definitlon of Ceputer Raqudremeta
Data Cellectio  Prorm
Data Analysis Progrm
Inventory of  aowrces
c) lJr eelatin of klintana aid
gqupment Policies
raintanan  Progrm
o CM
o Q31
d)  Central Pla!1
o lDIgmos et the fPreedil Syte
Services
o eemEtal Drug at
a Eaeetial Drg Polic
o Famtial Dru  Sopply
o Zauta  Dug Stock
oeeancal Drug Datribution
o  aatl. DNWg List Reviaion
 Eaaeutal Dnu  Ptolcy Rivigion
Stragtbhaniu  of Imbitel llosgeint
a) Coet-Cetadi  t
Setting-op an Accottig Systam
in coo
ASofty r_
Softwr Program
Coqpuer Trainin
Lrcp putar Settlement
?irat Evaluation
Retaneino to Eaginnal soapitala
Settin  up an Aalytical Syste
AMaLysla In CMl
walm.tiou
Maano  to Regioa lboepital-                                                                        2            3
Seihrr                                                   X      X       X        X      X       X        X       X       X      X
b)  In1eea  tfficiacy         '
o Sear an Managemeet for  1edical
ad Paramedical oroal                         X  X    X              X        X I  I                  X          X       X
o  aOIrganIrLtion of Central Servicas (Cookidg)
Renvatlon of KItdeb
o  repLital Pling of
Acettg Syate
Stock



- 3; -
___~~~~~~~~~~i            11      16      11    1997   11          1 [_ Is
QmdWim o fi _t m                         _attr of _W H IIIIIIIrr         m slr       1Jl            li u
ktni f qlSfeHftonw                        II I _ 4 I   II   I  11     11  I  II I I11   11I IT I11II  11I1]0  I I I I III
ft _ant Ma emis 0 mrarl hetfs__ _____     T                r   1:11  r|llrriil                        l117
lamstmmr_ maprode9tim f            I ID   IIrT I     m  i I I f 11      II I I II I I lIl I   I  I I I 
Pr==u of             -     )iap FMllllE _toa  II I I  U I            11 III I  I      111111 I  .  I1111111
Utoi-hm ofllllilfe UK mow                                                  111111I  111111 I:111111
 tw<r--L =olfllllll Inl   111 111   -0  11-144441
na  -pfei fw dw m                        111111 4; HIH                                    Ir m1lill 1TI f
cftw u -t no"l vm em am    fam               I H                                           .1 TST          m m TI   T 
< X ..h.- of!ilrli If fori &.Ul         I ISI                                       E I I    .[11111
vrdl&mttlc of!111111   111 I                                11 IE I I111  Illr 1                   1111
K%,Ub~~~x      llllII           1111HI   1JHm of a" 11 1o1f I II11   I   I I I I I I IJ
am-n{do _d                      111111111111 of1   11111               I   11 HI M   1 I  II   I   I  I I i
Cadf .llliilrn OR VIL nl  mwcamim                                          110H11 --4-II II  111111    I 11III1
IbW ofM UI&FL qtuuaf1111111111  -111   II 44-1                                        ]W I 111
I-nl f B                          111111111a heKr441111111   1111d          1115 111   11111111
dtbhm of UP n"gam o                            IIIl     ItI    13H uW     15111111T         
|"ora^                            1111 dommw ad ga fw do FM; :
ftnfm -a 111111111 11111Juliinl kw1N rn pnot w
1>'   IlllllXlUlERX~~------ -



- 5T -                                                                 u
ran                        smut rA
_. Ar m ur n
I. CIVISCLfT                                                                O      11I
1. ESTUcIon
I aeMi UIca                                                         -        -          -            -.3..
M ma   ra M2 22 -                                          -        -        -          -            -           -         -       1V4               -    11.1
llltll                                     51R2,2.        -        - 0.519.4  215.?NJ               -           -         -              --    66417.I
SIl KEUhu                                   SI119.3        -        -        -          -            -           -         -              -          -   611,9
LOEC CUT FrC                                214.71.        -        -        -          -            -           -         -              -          -    21.71
sb-Total aintrm                              L,m.I17.        -         - a          v9.nSt4 2S   -7                 -    .    -       3    6ts.         -  4.39.744
2. aIMS FEES                                  11.34.2        -         -       -    7.4534              -           -         -             -          -    11116.1
s2b-Total CML  S                               39131142.1       -        - 419M.4   2426.1                -           -         -       13l6.6            -  4.p3M4.1
-. FLiAts. rCuwT
z. Lm    m 
FM 5 N USOC                                                           12.017  -  .21 7 31?4.3  12.014            -         -              -          -  1.312W3
FM s r30            T                             -        -        -        -          --     -                           -       107414            -    1467494
$1e-tRl FUIEIlI   m4   E1.7                                  - 232I692 1349k7    46304.3          12.1-                               161494.          - -1.42w53.4
2.  tCa                                        47.67 SOMA4.4   4P3.4  76.V.5           4=25       2                 -          _      3.4             _    346047.
3. urns                                         s.n1.m       -   mmu.  138..              -       2403414           -         -             -          -    :.u11
4. lIEIL                                             -       -         -       -          -             -           -         -       16449.3          -    145.34J
f:*-Toalml  R11111. EWIUI
caIn. SIIWs                                   641   2J42.23.4  Ma          2541649.4 3 9.3       0U711.1            -         -       39 .             -  2.9ia
C. IKINMI alEC,P CSTMITEf
c.oLss r anus I
1M1   1 SITS                                   36.4 3164  w 1   's.amaL                   -       042J              -         -         12.2           -    43.74.0
FU      I                                     2 111.712.?    -         - 114413.6         -             -           -         -             -          -    271.4
Tun=                                                 -  7.93.3  44432 a .J   UZa.s                      -           -         -       240.1            -    4.71673
W9*-T l OWI i r    Wmmm    CPELTOTS
raisUr OnT- unS                               1cGW.I. 40v4a .2  3743.5 439.9   2.217.9            0    L3           -         -  '11.2                 -  1.20I4.6



p.m 2 or 2
I.  eiO   P11IC4 FEILITI
FlPl TNmNM                                                                          -                  -    2.1sM.2         *              -          -     .2:3.2
ulla  59   nc1u                                       -       -        -        -                       -               79.1612   *    -iU             *    23,276.3
ULl2SWau  IPIEENT                                   -        -        -       -          -             -          -  11.6           *le2..           -    - 367
lUI2.11 121                                         -       -         -       -          -            -           -   25,30         3 7159..          -    lC42.36.
wmli:ml CuuiS                                                -        -       -          -             *-    3.mJ1.                 a^1.5:s.2         -   U46.52.5
F. u2*llbt -M                                          -       -        -        -          -       -                          -             -   63.7.       263D.37
lowl IINUTOOT 126                                4.914d.3 13,21.65:3.42.914.51:2.    3113            123.3.     26.23.2  Iu.696        2.11.9.    327.4  9.3.36.
1. asKIL cml   als
5 9            n                              7,477.22.11.    4.m.4    4.I    244". 47.7                         -         -              -          -    149.7.l
F          aU mjai in,uiu                        .0         -  :l.m.         -          -        h.66.6          -                        -          -    7.24 
n.WLfPU 1211                                        - 65.313.?       -       -     9,112.- -                     -         -              -          -  -4.- .-
6112  KJSIUP                              19,45.         - *  .62.3        -    10.9.              -           -         -             -              ~.1u
S.NELT  tn    M9.                                                   -       -          -             -          -          -             -          -   3.3
6211L1 nu1 Mm                                 74,4.3        -   1699 -.   29.5:2.4                    -          -          -             -          -    23.v7.
3ALRE12 1#1 AR3,21T.4                                         3 7.5:.2                 -        3,3   .         -          -             -          -   4V1917.1
9T19Im                                             -        - NM3.1 11.4                -             -           -         -             -          -     7
NM      a-ltl I"WIII CUl                      12164.412.2        5&42.3 2 32 2142.3   sd.4        4.4t5.2           -         -             -          -  l1.76
1     N   T U I61                                1.264.J12.3216,421   W.ld2J 62.1       3..           3                -         -             -          _   1.776
d.1.2eIEUXuSS 0616332662942X12.2 696253 7.3U.5   39335                                               1159.2    26.23.2   IJ09.          2.12.96.   263.370  11.21.17.
N         lalmmn                                   704.  1 .  22.5A3          .3    2 43              1              -          -       46.1924    26.3.    1,26o4
em.       .m.I                                 1s372.4U.4 7232.3 23.44.929.59.6   16 3.4             n496.0          -   12W4.2        2099    13 7  2173..
b l larS15 MM                                    &.M,1J6 2M.2  6.o      .43. 9,6W.312 1 31           22 2    242*10.2  193.9.           2.36463.    731 6   US.7u23
~~ -- ~~~-   - -~m    -    --M -                                                                  - 
TOM                                            1472.747.7   d1t94    916.  99,254.0   11.1          293.5            -   1I3.2         26. .7    46,36.9  2P.2     .2
Fo,.sm  2w..                                   3..122133S.  454,74J 3k .    2 15.2                 233.267.3  I227     22 3..2         3956.    M.23 69  5.413B r



_ 59                  AN    I 1
naer~~               aawi
HMiH AND  E:rAM  N
L           R TND   cnFS     nms
(aFA 00D0)
(Jme 1985 prim)
1991                          192]
PM        Pbm       lUrL      WMH  P1u             urAL
1Nzurln Scimods
AII schaols
TreladvfJle         15,951.9    _       15,951.9  15,951.9   _         15,951.9
IBuD               135,486.4    _      135,486.4 135,496.4   _       135,486.4
lbdtw,             135 486.4    _      135,486.4 135,486.A           135 486.4
286 ,924.7    -     286.  *        .7  _          286,.
A.2  Suimt SdmlahLkd
Treldcvlie                   93,147.0   93,147.0    -      93,147.0   93,147.0
llb*p                        93 147.0   93,147.0    -      93,:47.0  93 147.0
- W ,Y.0  186,294.0    _      186,294.0  186 294.0
A.3 Stuimt Proeiaf      13,468.1    -        13,468.1  13,468.1   -        13.468.1
A.4 friktion ad
idntur of
Fudb">gca Nh -eriS17,404.5    -         17,404.5  17,404.5   -        17,4C4.5
A.5 Salaries of mmw
Graduates perI
1221-.4/Qdtut:T ew    -     195.424.0  195,424.0    -    139O.M   _ 390.848.0
SubtotAl TbSniUa    317,797.3 381 7i8.   699,515.3 317,797.3 577,142.0  894,939.
B.1 1kelchwElle          6,996.               6,996L6   6,99L6              6,99.L6
BukE                 5-3608              5,360.8   5,360.8             5,360.8
* abdtou             5,360.8             5,36C08   5,360.8             5,35CL8
W!idn. Cief SES
of St               1,483.5   1,483.5                                1,483.5
B.2  haintemance of
Sciuvatomu LXI
EquLipt of 70
FmitIAN            3,3D7      __3      3,307.3   3,307.3             3,307.3
B.3 Meitcine Chief
Suy.rvsion of
HeIath p.rgmmnel   11 137.4          311137.4  11,137.4             tl 137.4
Babtocal                                11ternshiP  13]64E;4 _   37,648.4  336,38.4  336.4
C. Cemtral Mirdatry
1zfiormt.on Sytem   13,710.4            13,710.4  13,710.4            13,710.4
eaitral R,ary          738.4               73B.4    738.4                738.4
OffLee of HDWe-
xet & AdnInistra-
tibn              12,04a.3            12,040.3  12,040.3               13
bsplt. ~rt1W
S-pCO              2,Z9.1           _2,298.1   2,29.M                2,298.1
Sabwti.l- H  _nIu t  28,787.2                28,787.2       28,72_,7.
1.  GM5 TO1L            380,232.9 381,718.0  761,950.9 380,232.9 577,142.0  957,374.9
(USS laLon,
eqtdvalt)          ($0.8)    ($0.8)     ($1.6)    ($0.8)   ($1.2)     ($2.0)
IL  lDl7L U13DAE TO
APPPA2E WMR    509,512.1 511,502.1 1,021,014.2 534,987.7 812,038.8 1,347,026.5
(USS MIllion
equiv1et)          ($1.0)    ($1.0)     ($2.1)    ($1.1)   ($1.7)     ($2.8)
IIE. MOPH Ibdget. Pro
jected by the World
Bsdk Ecxdc
Mlsslon
(7.51 of BSF)     I75,90PD,i0                     8
IV. IUIII                   0.77Z                           0.6Z



- (0-
VW  CUlf                                        ANSIX I
UNALTI *iU1C a           PUKIU                           YiUT.
-Sll rn-ncr
UsUA? OF                    esAMEC L AlUTCU US CUULTY!    SSf
Project Tws
ftopo,ut                                                                     0.y lption  -7T I  2  3      4     5      Yted
_bri  Schols I                   Sport to itainya      r b-Uretoru te
for leprowet of Pedolesi.  Ateriele            -       1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5         7.5
bLuetlen. Directorate of         3,1l_atfoe of TraldSw ftogrm  ed
bnpowur                           u_ntatloo *eXinutance                          -       1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5         7-5
Nemagt... Mm?P,                  Plannig Aeulataim                               -       1.0   1.0    -       1.0   -       3.0
PDeel opt of leao tlen Syete (ms)             2.0       1.0   1.0           1.0   -        5.0
Inves tiation of Appropriate Input for HIS     -       5.0    _-            -     -        5.0
TrselliIn iHelatmlce                           -        1.0   -      1.0   -      -        2.0
bDf1xit1r, of PoLicy on Msnrtemce              -       -      1.0   1.0   -       -        2.0
Assitancre to C.,E?aL Hiarecystups            0.5       0.5   0.5   -       -     -        1.5
loLlow-up Asisetance on Improemnts to         4.0       1.0   1.0   1.0   -       -        7.0
Contral Niareacy
lepl_nnt atln Asstt                           -        1.5          1.5    15    1.5      7.5
Hsnqe_mnt. NmpitaLs               1 1angemet Trainig of lbmpitel Staff          1.0       .5    .5    .5    .5   -           3.0
anagement Training In SpectIlty Are_           _        1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0        5.0
Strongtlufng of lDepitml AccutIng Stm         2.0       -           --    -T-             2.0
Traln of S.f hr lourswe In OC__ral
bPVLelo                                      -       7.0   _ -            -   -          7.0
lqwIvsuant of Uosplttl Food &  Rn m Serve.  1.0         1.0   1.0   -       -     -        3.0
T fotetion SpeciAlit for Accoticg System       -        1.0   1.0   -       -     -        2.0
Progrme AaLyst for Acomtlg Spte                -       -      2.0   1.0   -       -        3.0
Proeact NAegm t                  Prect e  altlon                                 -       3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0    15.0
ad Administration                                                                              
TOTL. IHath Sub-Project          j                                               10.5   |27.5 1 17.5 |13.0 | 11.0 |.5 |         .
3/ Teciical Asiatm   In yea  0 to be pefInacad by CGoernmet ad zelureed by re troctive finmaclog provided fOr  der project fuode.



-61-                                                    Anex _1
Table 1T
IVORY COAST
HEALTE AND DEMOGRAPlIC PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCDEIXJL OF DISBMURSDENS
(US$ zillion)
FISCAL YEAR(                      DISBURSEMENT               CUMULATED                  CUMULATED            UNDISURSD
SEMESTER                          PER SEMESTER                  AMOUNT                    PERCENT                BALANCE
FY86
DECEMBER 31, I?85                            0.0                    0.0                          0                   22.2
JUNE 30, 1986 la)                            1.1                    1.1 (bI                      5                   21.1
FY87
DECENBER 31, 1986                            1.3                    2.4                         11                   19.0
JUNE 30, 1987                                1.9                    4.2                         I?                   18.0
FY89
DECEMBER 31, 1987                            2.0                    6.2                         28                   16.l
JUNE 30, 1988                                2.2                    8.4                         38                   13.8
FY09
DECEMBER 31, 1988                            2.4                   10.9                         49                   11.3
JUNE 30, 199                                 2.4                   13.3                         60                    B.9
FY90
DECEMBER 31, 1989                            2.2                   15.5                         70                    6.7
JUNE 30, 199O                                2.0                   17.5                         79                    4.7
FY91
DECEMBER 31,1990                             1.8                   19.3                         87                    2.9
JUNE 30, 1991                                1.3                  20.6                          93                    1.6
FY92
DECEMBER 31, 1991 (c)                        0.9                   21.5                         97                    0.7
JUNE 30, 1992 Id)                            0.7                  22.2                         100                    0.0
(ti Expected date of effectiveness: January 1, 1986
(bi Includes disaursement froi PPF advance t5.5  Aillion)
(c) Expected date of projact completlon: Decenber 31, 1991
tdz Csosing date: JunE 30. 1992



-62-  bim.
ari 1.
1@iI
1aiI  Ii,    i
li~i l  I ill  i
g | 3.       X ~~~~~~~~~~~~
l g~~~I
~~~~iX  
Fill  2  1t



- 63-                                  Aex I
Chart 2
ra ass
MM AND DUXNAUHC RMUE
?KlUF: N[zdutzy oNNWGS ERWW                   EAd uran
ifliTLs}ff of                       aaNzIia lixi
DODL~~~ Dizectocate far ~~~~~~tzo1 of Major Wobrate
l                l       -I~~~~~~~cmtte
iPtect linmlMg fattteal
-Directoc of OMal Dlltorts                           .w   a X
:            dmaveo Directorate of
Do naie E O                                     inr  ae
DLet    of< Num Slsw
!-     o  aE the Natonal_
Irstitute Sar Ctw  dE Mlajr Wfb*s Dietor of   lhcord          lector of
PYnw:Al       Aead           w   
Afftr
NF:W    ouaL  E EwaWad  am
M:        ydsz coE Pubi W i 
DI=     X DIrectce for CrrLof MorWaft



- 64 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of I
IVORY COAST
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF FACILITIES AND PERSONNEL
Infrastructure, equipment, and staffing patterns vary widely
between health care districts. The table below shows that, on average, one
dispensary serves a population of over 15,000. The north and southeast
regions are best served, with less than 10,000 people per dispensary, but
in the center region this rises to over 20,000. Maternity beds per 1,000
women of reproductive age range from 0.4 in the Center-West to 1.9 in the
South-and in the North, for an average of 1.2 beds per 1,000 women.
Health Staff and Facilities by Regios, 1980
Maternity    Hospital
Population    beds per    beds per   Doctors    Nurses
per        1,000       10,000        per        per
Dispensary     Wo _n  Population   100 Beds   Doctor
South          11,011          1.9         6.7          10.8      3.7
Center         20,289          0.8         5.5           5.8      4.5
Nortb           9,841          1.9         8.7           4.7      3.2
vest           12,676          1.7         1.8           3.9      7.3
Center-West    17,657          0.4         5.0           3.8      5.7
East           15,108          0.7         3.1           5.8      5.0
Southeast       9,290          0.6         7.2           6.0      3.3
Average        15,401          1.2         5.8           7.6      3.9
The average number of hospital beds is 5.8 per 10,000
population.  Again, large differences are observed, from 8.7 in the North,
which benefited from a recent regional investment program, to just 1.8 beds
per 10,000 population in the West. On average, 7.6 doctors work in these
hospitals for every 100 beds; there are 4 nurses for every doctor. The
South, which includes Abidjan, is the best endowed with health staff, with
10.8 doctors per 100 beds and 40 nursing personnel.



-65-                      Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
IVORY COAST
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
HEALTH MANPOWER STRUCTURE AND DEPLOYMENT
1.        Physicians.  The deployment of medical practitioners is
concentrated in urban areas: 36Z of the doctors and 22X of the dentists
practicing in the two teaching hospitals in Abidjan, another.341 and 32Z,
respectively, practicing in the other 64 hospitals. This urban-rural
Imbalance results in about 7 times more doctors based In curative, urban
facilities than in rural facilities. In 1983, the national ratios of
doctors and dentists in public service to 100,000 population were about 6.5
and 0.7, respectively. In rural areas, these ratios approached 0.6.
2.        Midwives.  The number of midwives has increased fairly rapidly,
with a sharp increase in the number of non-Ivorian midwives, who, like
medical officers, work primarily in urban areas. In 1981, 45Z of the
midwives were employed in hospitals, 301 in urban maternities and NCE
centers,-19Z in rural maternities. Dhe remaining 61 serve in various other
institutions. The distribution of midwives is highly uneven, with the
ratio of midwives to maternity beds averaging 1:2.5 In teaching hospitals
and varying between 1:3 to 1:12 in other hospitals; 1:4 to 1:32 in urban
maternities and NCR centers; and 1:4 to 1:41 in rural maternities. In
addition, about 50 rural maternities were operating with no assigned
midwife. In 1983, the national ratio of midwives to population was about
10 for rural areas, the average ratio was about 1.5, i.e., a rural midwife
must serve a population six times greater than an urban midwife. With the
decision of the Minister to assign all new midwife graduates to rural
maternities, this discrepancy should be reduced in the future.
3.        Nurses.  Statistics show that, between 1975 and 1979, growth in
the overall number of nurses in public service lagged behind population
growth. The discontinuation of the two-year auxiliary level nursing
programs in 1975 has led to a reduction in the annual number of graduating
nurses, now close to or below the replacement level, leaving no margin for
staffing new or expanded facilities. The 1984 nursing deficit was
estimated at 883 and projected to grow to about 1,833 by 1990 and to 3,533
by 2000, in the absence of measures to train additional nurses. Twenty-two
percent of the nurses are in the teaching hospitals (1,422 beds), 261 in
other hospitals (4,966 beds), 19Z in other urban facilities, 13X in rural
facilities (1,328 beds), and 20Z in specialized and autonomous health
lnstitutions. This deployment pattern results in a natlonal ratic of
approximately 24.9 to 100,000 inhabitants and a rural ratio of 10 to
100,000 inhabitants.
4.        Health Technicians. There is an acute shortage of health
technicians. Available 1975 figures for the public sector show the
following: 1 veterinarian, 38 sanitarians, 4 physiotherapists, 37
laboratory technicians, 8 assistant laboratory technicians, 13 x-ray
technicians, aud 26 other paramedical technicians. Today, these figures
are almost the same. This level of technical manpower is clearly
insufficient to meet even the most basic hospital requirements.



- 66 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
The shortage of health technicians is directly related to low utilization
rates of hospital technical and laboratory equipment.
5.        Non-Civil Service Support Staff Employment (Journaliers).  In
addition to the above-mentioned training and accredited health manpower,
7,000 non-civil servants and health facility workers (journaliers) in
support positions (drivers, clerks, etc.) work in the health sector, most
of whom perform low-level paramedical functions and are occasionally
assigned as stand-ins for nurses and midwives. riDst training is on-the-job
provided by the nursing staff since there are no formal training or
certification requirements for journaliers. In a number of areas, the
District Medical Officer has offered short courses to partially address
training deficiencies. The practice of employing journaliers as
inexpensive paramedics is continued for the following reasons: (i)
critical nursing shortage; (ii) the need for auxiliaries to assist State
nurses; (iii) increase 'n manpower at low cost; and, (iv) a desire to
involve coummnity members in health service delivery instead of relying
exclusively on civil serwants (who are typically not assigned to their own
area of origin). The MOPHP officially condones and even encourages the
employment of journaliers on financial and administrative grounds, In spite
of the inherent (malpractice) risks, but has become increasingly convinced
of the need to upgrade training and strengthen supervison of this category
of personnel in the short run and of finding an appropriate non-civil
service status for them in the longer run.
6.        Health Manpower Development Issues:
Ci) Overall ratios of health manpower to population is low, even
when compared to middle-income countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa. The Government's significant efforts to increase
health manpower training programshave been diluted by rapid
population growth.
(ii) Manpower deployment patterns exhibit a distinct bias toward
urban, curative, hospital-based care. Less than OZ of
medical practitioners and less than 15Z of trained
paramedics are assigned to provide care in rural areas to
about half of the country's population.
(iii)  Shortages in nursing personnel have increased since the
mid-seventies. Despite attempts to increase the capacity of
the Abidjan school for state nurses, (which has resulted in
unacceptably large class sizes of over 150), the shortfall
of nurses below desired staffing patterns is increasing
annually; currently, it is about 20% of the staffing
requirements of existing facilities and is projected to rise
to about 40% by 1990 unless new schools can be built and
staffed.



- 67 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
(lv) The discontinuation of training programs for auxiliary
nurses poses serious problems, since nurses are key staff
in the delivery of primary level health services in
peripheral facilities. The widespread practice of
assigning informally trained paramedical day laborers can
only be justified as an Interim practice if minimum
training and skills standards are introduced and if
adequate supervision and in-service training are
instituted. Issues relating to their administrative status
need to be resolved.
(v)   Plans to expand the training capacity for midwives require
careful review in order to effect a more equitable
distribution of midwives nationwide. Two possible remedies
include requiring newly graduated midwives to serve a tour
duty in the interior or allowing retrained nurses to fill
midwife of positions.
(vi) Health technicians are in very short supply at all levels;
the need for auxiliary level health technicians (lab
assistants, health educators, sanitarians, etc.) is even
more pressing as they are indispensable to the achievement
of the Government's objective of improving the delivery of
'health services, particularly in the rural areas.



- 68 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
IVORY COAST
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
HEALTH MANPOWER PROJECTIONS
1.        The following tables present manpower projections for doctors,
pharmacists, dentists, midwives and nurses. The projections are based on
the current stock, assumptions on the attrition rate and expected number of
graduates. Furthermore, It is assumed that the number of expatriates,
contract workers and temporary workers will gradually be reduced.
Table 1: Moupower Projection - Doctors
1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 2000
overi ent workers   204  219  286  252  473  559  641  719  793  863 1399
Expatriate.          158  142  135  120  105   90   75   66   45   30  -
Coltract workers     135  137  151  135  120  105   90   75   60   45  -
Temporary              8    7    6    5    4    3    2    1 - --
-Vo _umeer             6    4    4    3    2    1
Total                511  509  582  645  704  758   808  855  898  938 1399
Total per 100,000
popiulatiom       6.2  5.9  6.5                                        7.8
2.        Physicians.  Given the current number of students in medical
school, one can expect about 110 Ivorian doctors to enter the market
annually. Furthermore, we assume a natural attrition rate of five percent
per year for government workers. Under these assumptions the total number
of doctors will increase to 938 in 1990 and to 1399 in 2000, for a
doctor/population ration cf 7.8 per 100,000. Of course the main
uncertainty in these projections is the future development of the private
sector. It is unlikely that all graduates of medical schools will continue
to be hired by the Government. A change in that policy may significantly
decrease the number of doctors on the government payroll, but will not
change the total expected number.
3.        Pharmacists. About 15 graduates leave the medical school each
year as pharmacists. A major uncertainty again is the development of the
private sector. Pharmacists csa leave the Government after five years of
service. If a majority choose to do so, the number of Government
workers/pharmacists may remain stable at about 150. In any case no major
increase in the pharmacist/population ratio can be expected.



- 69 _
Annez 4
Page 2 of 4
Table 2: Manpower Projections -  barmselats
1981 1952 1953 1984 1955 1956 1987 1965 l919 1990 2000
@ouermmt workers    77   99   110  123  136  1*8  160  172  18   195  297
zpatriates            9    9    9    8    7    6    5    4    3    2
Contract workers       9    8    8    7         6    5    4    3    2    1
Total                 95  116  127  138  149  159  169  179  159  198  297
Total per 100.000 
popIlation         1.2  1.4  1.4                                      1.6
4.        Dentists. About i7 dentlsts enter the market each year, the
projections are based-on an attrition rate of two percent per year. Under
these assumptions a doubling of the dentist/population ration by the year
2000 can be expected.
Table 3: Nmpwer - Projections - Deatists
1981 1962 1963 1964 1965 1986 1957 1968 1959 1990 M00
Goennn tt worker   "27   36  45   64   80   95  110  125  140  154  251
epatriates    - 4  1  1 -  -  - - -  -  -  -  -
Comtract workers      23   21   18   15   12   .9    6    3   -    -    -
Total                 54   58   67   79   92  104  116  128  140  154  281
Total per 100,000
populatio          .65  .67  .74                                     1.56
5.        Midwives. About 80 students graduate each year. However, in
1984 the number of students admitted was reduced by balf, so for 1987 only
40 new labor market entrees are expected. From 1988 on, an output of the
usual 80 graduates has been assumed. The assumed attrition rate is five
percent.



- 70 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
Table 4: Manpower Projections - Nldwives
1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 2000
Government workers   694  815  897  932  965  997  987 1018 1046 1073 1285
Expatriates            8    6    5    4    3    2    1  -    -    -    -
Contract workers      12   11   10    9    8    7    6    5    4    3   -
Temporary workers     67   73   67   60   55   50   45   40   35   30   -
Total                781  905  979 1005 1031 1056 1039 1058 1075 1106 1285
Total per 100,000
population         9.4 10.5 10.9                                       7.1
Under these assumptions the number of midwives will grow
gradually from 1,005 in 1984 to 1,106 in 1990 and 1,285 in 2000. This
increase, however, is not sufficient to keep up with population growth.
The ratio will drop from 10.9 in 1983 to 7.1 per 100,000 population in
2000.
6.        Nurses.  The projections for nurses are based un 160 graduates
per year and an attrition rate of 2.5 percent. As for midwives, the number
of students admitted to nursing school was cut in half in 1984, which will
reduce the number of graduates to 80 in 1987. After that 160 graduates per
year are expected. In addition, assuming that the proposed project will be
carried out on schedule, 80 additional graduates are expected annually from
1991 on (School of Bouak ) and another 80 from 1993 on (School of
Korhogo). This brings the expected number of nurses to 4,787. Thus, the
addition of the two new schools is necessary to keep the nurse/population
ratio to just about the level reached in the early eighties.
Table 5: MNnpower Projections - Nrses
1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 2000
Govermuent workers  1687 1895 2005 2115 2222 2326 2348 2449 2548 2644 4787
Zxpatriates           24   31   25   20   15   10    5  -    -    -    -
Contract workers     128  115  103   90   80   70   60   50   40   30   -
Temporary workers     99  106   "    80   70   60   50   40   30   20   -
Total               1938 2247 2238                                      4787
Total per 100,000
population        23.9 26.1 24.9                                      26.5



- 71 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
7.        Manpower/Population Ratio.  In sum, based on the current
schooling capacity, some improvement can be expected in the
doctor/population ratio, while the ratio for dentists will dduble. For
midwives the picture is cause for worry: the current shortage of midwives
(recall that only 209 percent of all births receive proper assistance) will
worsen, unless
additional training capacity is created. The ratio of nurses to doctors
will also worsen, from about 4:1 in the early eighties to 3.4:1 in 2000.
8.        Salaries.  As stated before, it seems unlikely that the current
Government practice of absorbing all graduates can be continued much
longer. The current trends towards privatization of the health-care
sector, as observed in Abidjan, is likely to continue at an accelerating
pace. Apart from the political desire to either stimulate or stem this
trend, budgetary considerations will almost force the Government to
reevaluate its policies regarding health manpower recruitment.
9.        Though no exact match between salaries and manpower projections
is currently possible, It is quite obvious that the expected increase in
health personnel will further reduce funds available for maintenance,
medicines, and equipment. In addition, the expected steep increase in the
population necessitates a significant increase in the investment budget
just to keep the current infrastructure (beds/population, etc.) at about
the 1980 level. Under the current economic circumstances it is unlikely
that the Government's budget for health can grow fast enough to keep up
with these increasing demands for funds. Unless serious efforts are being
made to (1) change the manpower structure by balancing the ratio of
doctors/nurses/auxiliaries, and (2) increase financial resources for health
from sources other than the Government, the Ivorian health care system may
soon see a financial crisis with all available funds spent on personnel and
no resources whatsoever available for anything else.



-72-
Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
IVORY CO3AST
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATh AVAILILE IN THE PROJECT PILE
On Health
1. Reflexion Prospective Dans le Domauine Sanitaire et Social.  Hinistere
du Plan et de l'Industrie, Octobre 1983.
2.  Evaluation des Ressources Humaines et Materielles du Systeme Sanitaire
Ivoirien. Ministere de la Saute Publique et de la Population,
Hinistere de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan, Janvier 1980.
3.  Le Systeme de Soins et le Developpement Regional en Cote d'Ivoire.
Jacqueline Tiberi-Giorgi (Ministere du Plan et de l'Industrie), Mai
1982.
4.  Le Secteur Hospitalier Prive a Abidjan en 1980.  Ministere du Plan et
de l'Industrie, Septeubre 1981.
5. La Protection Sociale ea Cote d'Ivoire.  Ministere du Plan et de
l'Industrie, Juiu 1979.
6.  Eleu  ts sur la Protection Sociale et l'Assurance-Maladie en-Cote
d'Ivoire.  G. Lebreton, A. Ludot (Mlnistere du Plan et de l'Industrie,
Mars 1980
7. Les Evacuations Sanitaires en-Cote d'Ivoire.  Ministere du Plan et de
l'Industrie, Juillet 1981.
8. Etat du Personnel Paramedical en Fonction (Sage-Feimes, Infiruiers et
Infirmieres). Ministere de la Sante Publique et de la Population, Aout
1983.
9.  Bilan So aaire de Ressources unmaines et Materielles de la Sante
Publique DPPS(?), Juin 1983.
10. Various tables and unpublished documents, afinly on the Government's
health budget.
11. Etat Manuel de Morbidit des Formations Sanitaires en Cote d'Ivoire
1983 - Institut National de Sent Publique - 1984.
On Demography
12. Dossier Demographie; Reflexions Prospectives. (No date; most likely
Sous-Direction de la Statistique, end 1984).



l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<                <                           |~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~     ~~~ U   R   K   I  N   A  
- i         's       =    O ct &^ ~    HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC PROJECT
s                    d^~~~~~~~USPK-W   IEm
t'~~~~~~~~~i                                                 . ..nnarwu_  ' O
.  .,                -''                   .    UWNLfM _  _ '            ',, IuI _                     _gIU
-~~~~~~~~~ -                                                      ._EA _=O - I._ 0' 
EmrAImu,sinMgE _       imflfJm,eMIM .2 -
_  _ _ _ . _  _  _   -                               =;W-E          
s         =_   -           - -i'               -                 r    :            w   .             r        a
C                                                                            ufNitocw






