Document of
The World Bank                      Cli, py
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3448-CM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CAMEROON
FORESTRY PROJECT
December 22, 1981
Western Africa Region
Agriculture 2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
A^                      US$1          =       CFAF 270
CFAF 1,000   =       US$3.70
r
Weights and Measures
1 hectare (ha)         2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km) =     0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)  =     2.205 lbs.
1 litre (1)      =     1.057 US quarts
Abbreviations
CDC       : Commonwealth Development Corporation
Cellucam  : Societe Cellulose du Cameroun S.A.
CTFT      : Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
DEFC      : Direction des Eaux et Forets et des Chasses
FNFP      : Fonds National Forestier et Piscicole
IRA       : Institut de Recherche Agronomique
MINAGRI   : Ministere d'Agriculture
SEMRY     : Societe d'Expansion et de Modernisation de la
Riziculture de Yagoua
SNI       : Societe Nationale d'Investissement
Fiscal Years
FNFP:   January 1 - December 31
Government:  July 1 - June 30



FiO  O CICAIL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
FORESTRY PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION    ...................     .............................      1
A.   Background .............................................              1
B.  The Forestry Sector and the Economy.                                   1
(a) Contribution to the Economy.                                     1
(b) Forest Resources and Industries.                                 2
(c) Financing the Sector.                                            4
(d) Institutions and Training..                                      5
(e)  Objectives, Strategies and Policies.                            7
(f)  Bank and other External Involvement ...............             7
II. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                            8
III. THE PROJECT.                                                                9
A. Objectives ..                                                           9
B. Detailed Features              ..                                      10
(a) Edea Plantation .10
(b) SEMRY Plantation .12
(c) Ngaoundere Plantation .12
(d) Tree Seed Production Unit.                                      13
(e) Strengthening FNFP .14
(f) Strengthening DEFC .14
(g) Studies and Preparation of Possible
Follow-up Project.                                          14
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                 . . .14
A. General   ..14
B. Plantation Arrangements    ..15
C. Strengthening FNFP                 ..16
D. Strengthening DEFC               ..17
E. Training   ..17
F. Monitoring and Evaluation    ..18
G.  Seed Production and Liaison with Research    .          .18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officia] duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No,
V.     COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS .....            .......................    19
A.    Project Cost Estimates ..............       ..     .................    19
B.   Proposed Financing ..................             ...................    21
C. Onlending Arrangements                          ..                        21
D. Procurement    ..23
E. Disbursement..                                                            23
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS .             . .................    25
A. Production   ..25
B.  Markets and Marketing Arrangements   .                  .26
C. Financial Results    ..27
VII.  BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS             .       .29
A. Benefits                      ...29
B. Economic Justification              .          .                          30
(a)  Economic Analysis and Rate of Return   .             .30
(b) Sensitivity.                                                       32
C. Risks    ...32
VIII. ASSURANCES AND CONDITIONS .33
ANNEXES
Tables
Table 1: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 2: Illustrative Government Cash Flow
Edea Plantation, Silviculture Unit Organigram
Table of Contents: Project File
MAP IBRD 15692 - Cameroon, Forestry Project Zones



I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
1.01      The Government of Cameroon has requested Bank assistance in financing
a five-year forestry project in the South Central and Northern Provinces, at
an estimated cost of US$35.5 million. The project would include three planta-
tion components, an improved tree seed production unit, technical assistance
for Fonds National Forestier et Piscicole (FNFP) which is responsible for
Governnent s reforestation programs, and logistical and technical support for
Direction des Eaux et Forets et des Chasses (DEPC) which is responsible for
tax assessment and collection from the forestry sector. The project would be
the first Bank assisted project devoted entirely to the forestry sector in
Cameroon.
1.02      The project was identified by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
sector mission in February/March 1979, with a follow-up identification mission
in November 1979. The project was prepared by a mission from the Cooperative
Programme which visited Cameroon in May/June 1980. This report is based
on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission comprising Messrs. John Russell,
Robert Fishwick, Robert Crown and Christopher Ward which visited Cameroon in
January/February 1981. Messrs. Sean Magee and Frank Dorward (CDC) partici-
pated in the appraisal of the Edea Plantation Component.
B. The Forestry Sector and the Economy
(a) Contribution to the Economy
1.03      The United Republic of Cameroon extends northward from the Gulf
of Guinea 1,200 km to Lake Chad. Covering 475,000 km2, the country embraces
a wide range of climatic conditions, from Sahelian in the extreme north to
tropical rain forest in the south. This permits a well diversified agricul-
tural sector and there is presently near self sufficiency in food production.
Of this area about 33 million ha are forested. Although the country's
reserves of petroleum and bauxite are to be increasingly exploited, industrial
development is still largely based on agriculture and forestry and involves
domestic processing of primary commodities, such as cocoa and palm kernels,
and the conversion of logs into lumber, veneer, plywood and wood pulp. Food
processing industries account for 45% of total industrial turnover. On the
other hand, in spite of the size of the forestry resource base, and of the
fact that cutting licenses have been issued for 7.7 million ha, in 1977/78,
value added in the sector was estimated to be only 8% of agricultural net
output and 4% of GDP.
1.04      Cameroonian infrastructure investments have included improvement of
the road network, particularly rural roads critical for the movement of
agricultural produce, modernization of the Trans-Camerounais railway system,



-2-
expansion of port facilities at Douala and plans for crea-ion of a new port at
Rocher du Loup between Kribi and Campo. These would facilitate the movement
of large bulk commodities like forestry products which for the present are
strongly oriented towards export in raw form. On the other hand, development
of transportation facilities in the south east, which contains many of the
country-s richest forests, has lagged.
1.05      The population, estimated at 8.3 million in 1979, is currently
growing at about 2.3% per year, and over 40% is under 15 years of age. Of
the adult population of 5.0 million, 74% or 3.7 million, are engaged in the
rural sector and about 25% are in urban employment. Population density
varies widely between regions. It is highest in the Western Province and
in parts of the Northern Province, where it reaches 200 or more per km2,
and lowest in the Eastern Province (3 per km2). Forecasts to the year 2000
project a population of 16 million, with almost 50 percent living in towns.
This growth will create a considerable demand for building materials and for
fuelwood, particularly in areas of rural population concentration where access
to other energy sources is limited and costly.
1.06      The GNP, currently estimated at US$4.4 billion, represents a per
capita income .of US$518. GNP grew at about 4.5% per year between 1970-75 and
7.1% per year 1975-80. Per capita incomes grew at about half these rates.
During 1980/81, however, GNP grew by only 3.5%.  The drop is due to a decline
in export commodity prices, notably for coffee and cocoa, and to a slowdown in
investment. The inflation rate, which averaged 6.2% during 1969-73, rose to
11.8% during 1974-78 and is now about 12%. Government set itself the objec-
tive of re-establishing a 6% growth rate under the Fourth National Plan
(1976/77-1980/81) and increased the investment budget during the period from
an originally planned CFAF 685 billion (US$2.5 billion) to CFAF 930 billion
(US$3.4 billion). During the first four Plan periods only about 14% of
realized investments (Government and private) have been for agriculture and
rural development. However, the proportion has risen to about 16% recently,
and the allocation for agriculture is expected to rise still further in the
Fifth Plan, currently being prepared.
(b) Forest Resources and Industries
1.07      The total forest area of Cameroon is estimated at 33 million ha or
two thirds of the country. Of this, 18 million ha are dense forest, and 15
million ha are savanna and riverain. However, knowledge of the quality and
exploitable volumes present in these forests is very limited as only 700,000
ha have been inventoried. An inventory of 176,000 ha carried out by the FAO
in the Deng-Deng forest indicated that the commercially exploitable volumes
might run as high as 160 m3/ha, and surveys of the wet tropical high forest
around Edea and experience during the st-art-up of the Cellucam mill showed
that the volume usable for the pulp project is about 190 m3/ha. But the
diversity of the forest makes small samples unreliable indicators, and current
logging operations on average harvest only about 10 m3/ha.



-3-
1.08      In 1978/79 an area of 7.7 million ha was licensed for exploitation
by some 100 concessionaires working in some 200 concessions concentrated in
the three provinces: Centre-South (3.3 million ha), East (2.8 million ha) and
Littoral (1.0 million ha); the remaining 0.6 million ha are in concessions in
the West and Southwest provinces. About half of the concessions were under
50,000 ha, which are smaller than average in West Africa, and about 10% of the
concessions were between 200,000 and 250,000 ha which are considered large.
About 10% of the forestry enterprises were mixed or Government enterprises.
Despite government policy encouraging local participation, 70% of the conces-
sion areas are licensed to foreign companies.  Production of logs in 1978/79
was 1.6 million m3, a substantial increase over the 1.3 million m3 of the
previous year. An annual production of 2 million m3 could be achieved with
little or no new investment by the industry.
1.09      There is a high degree of vertical integration between logging,
processing and marketing, an arrangement promoted by government legislation
requiring holders of cutting licenses for more than 10,000 ha to carry out
some primary processing. Some 75 mills produced about 250,000 m3 of
sawnwood in 1977/78, of which 75,000 m3 was exported. There are two veneer
factories in Cameroon currently operating and a further two are under con-
struction. Veneer production in 1977/78 was 40,000 m3, 90% for export.
Particle board and plywood production of 30,000 m3 was mainly for the
domestic market.
1.10      In line with government policy for increasing domestic value added
in the sector and with a view to eventually supplying the domestic market
with paper products, a pulp mill was opened at Edea (Map, IBRD 15692) in
1980 by Societe Cellulose du Cameroun SA (Cellucam). Cellucam is a mixed
enterprise in which the Cameroon government, through its Societe Nationale
d'Investissement (SNI) and 4 smaller agencies is the majority shareholder
(67% of equity). The other share-holders include the Banque Islamique de
Developpement (12%), Voest-Alpine (6%), Societe Luxembourgeoise de Financement
pour l'Afrique (5%), Societe Europeenne d'Investissement Industriel en Afrique
(3%), and two private individuals (7%). Voest-Alpine (Austria) installed the
plant and is providing technical assistance in its operations. Svenska
Cellulosa AB, Sweden's largest pulp and paper manufacturer is providing
marketing outlets. The mill has a capacity of producing 122,000 tons of
bleached sulphate pulp per annum, and production is presently based on a
natural hardwood concession of 160,000 ha to the north of Edea containing
about 100,000 ha of harvestable forest. Technical aspects of logging and
pulping operations have been of high calibre and the plant produced its first
bleached pulp in January 1981.  This output has been of acceptable quality in
world markets for short-fibre pulp, and it is likely that Cellucam will begin
showing an operating surplus in 1983 when it reaches 100% of effective capac-
ity. However, in spite of its technical strengths and good quality produc-
tion, Cellucam has been faced with financing difficulties.  Rising costs
increased the level of investment from about US$165 million to US$350 million
by late 1980, the increase being financed through short term supplier and
commercial bank credit. As repayment of these credits will fall due during



-4-
the next five years, Cellucam has recently negotiated refinancing arrangements
with stock-holders and commercial banks.  Cellucam's participation in the
proposed project would be governed by an execution contract, a draft of which
was discussed at negotiations (para 4.02).
1.11      When project plantings reach maturity, Cellucam would purchase the
wood produced. This would offer Cellucam several advantages over the continued
pulping of mixed tropical hardwoods which would include having a supply of
wood of uniform density and sizes, standing within reasonable distances froia
the mill, growing in regular patterns. With such plantations, the cost of
harvesting and transporting wood to the mill could be reduced by about 33%                   S
relative to costs of harvesting the natural forest, and processing costs per
ton of pulp would be reduced by about 20% as a result of lower processing time
and chemical requirements. In addition, the proposed plantations would
produce pine which is not found naturally in the tropical forest and which i's
a source of long-fibre pulp. Long-fibre pulp is essential for paper production
and is sold in world markets at an 8% premium over short-fibre pulp such as
that which Cellucam currently produces. Therefore, the policy of Cellucam's
eventually using plantation grown wood instead of natural forest would
increase domestic value added, and would be consistent with Government's
sectoral strategy (para 1.19).
(c)   Financing the Sector
1.12      In general, funding for forest enterprises has been readily avail-
able in the private sector and to date, exploitation has been dominated by
foreign companies. The SNI has, however, made equity investments in a number
of wood processing companies in addition to its investment in Cellucam.
Projected investment in forestry during the five-year plan, 1976/77-1980/81,
was CFAF 21.7 billion (US$80 million), of which 80% was provided by the
private sector. Government's contribution was mainly for reforestation and
enrichment plantation executed by FNFP.
1.13      Revenues are recovered from the forestry sector by Government
through: (i) two annual taxes assessed on concessionaires to support local
Government (redevence communale) and reforestation (redevence de reforesta-
tion); (ii) a licencing fee for issuance or renewal of concessions (charges
codifiees); and (iii) royalties charged per m3 of wood either exported, or
processed further within the country.  Of these taxes, 100% of the reforesta-
tion taxes and licencing fees and 55% of the royalties charged on cut wood are
earmarked by law to support Government's reforestation effort. However, while
the size of the forestry industry--in terms of the number of concessionnaires
and hectarage in concessions--has remained relatively constant since 1977,
and the volume of wood processed and exported has increased, taxes and royal-
ties collected from the sector have declined. This has been due to poor
assessment of royalties on wood being cut which has left as much as half of
the harvest unrecorded for tax purposes, and poor administration of annual
and five-year tax and licencing regulations. As a result, by June 30, 1980,
about CFAF 1.5 billion (US$5.6 million) of the assessed taxes and royalties
were unpaid. This is an amount approximately equal to the revenue actually



- 5 -
collected in 1979/80, and is about double the arrears as of June 30, 1978.
Moreover, over 64% of the outstanding amount was owed by the one-third of
concessionaires with concessions in excess of 100,000 ha. This situation
arose since legal sanctions open to Government to collect arrears were not
vigorously pursued. Moreover, lack of material and financial resources
for tax and royalties assessment and collection efforts, and cumbersome
administrative procedures also reduced the effectiveness of the responsible
agencies. Since April 1981, however, Government has made a determined effort
to recover arrears and by the time of negotiations, had recovered about CFAF
500 million (US$1.9 million).  Moreover, government is in the process of
establishing new administrative procedures and lines of authority which would
prevent the recurrence of such a state of arrears. During negotiations
Governnent agreed to take all necessary actions to collect by December 31,
1982 the remaining taxes and royalties that were overdue as of July 31, 1980.
They further agreed to ensure that in future appropriate actions would be
undertaken so that forestry taxes and royalties would be properly assessed and
collected within 12 months of their respective assessment. Financing would be
made available to a strengthen the Direction des Eaux et Forets et des Chasses
(DEFC) logistically and materially (para 3.13). Covernment would employ
consultant specialists if necessary to further strengthen the application of
the new procedures, and to continue to employ a senior DEFC officers soley
responsible for the assessment and collection of forestry taxes and royalties
in each of the five provinces where major forestry exploration occurs.
(d) Institutions and Training
1.14      The Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI) is responsible for all policy
formulation and surveillance of the forestry sector. It exercises its respon-
sibilities through two agencies: (i) DEFC which is a governmental department
is responsible for sector planning--including overall direction of replanta-
tion programs, for management of state forests and for supervision of all
forestry exploitation. Although DEFC is charged with assessment and collec-
tion of sectoral taxes and royalties, it depends on annual government budget
allocations to fund its recurrent costs, and on FNFP to fund its investment
budget. This leaves DEFC chronically short of operating funds and with little
scope for improving its material support. It has a staff of 880. The head-
quarters in Yaounde comprises three services: Studies and Programs (dealing
with planning and statistics), Production and Forest Industries (maintaining
day to day supervision of production and assessing and collecting taxes and
royalties) and Wildlife and Environment. Considering its overall responsi-
bilities, DEFC headquarters is insufficiently equipped and housed, which
accounts in part for its lack of fiscal control of the sector. DEFC is being
given appropriate authority to assess penalties for late payment of taxes and
royalties. DEFC is represented in each province. The lowest echelon in
the structure is the Poste Forestier, manned by a technical agent with one
year's training, being responsible for measuring and marking logs leaving the
concessions. Normally, there is one post per arrondissement. This, however,
does not provide adequate coverage in areas where several concessions are
operated. Posts are grouped into sections headed by technicians with two
year's training, which broadly coincide with departments, each with about



- 6 -
eight concessions on average.  The Section Head  s respsib1L for gatherin,g
and tabulating information from the concessions on the volume of wood being
taken. However, Section Heads lack the means of transportation necessary to
visit and verify, on-site, the volumes of wood being reported by the post/
concessionaire, which results in poor control. At the provincial level, the
DEFC office--headed by the Provincial Conservator--is responsible for moni-
toring the work of the Section Heads, calculating the taxes and royalties
payable on the harvested wood, and monitoring their payment.  However, pro-
vincial headquarters have neither the means for travel, nor facilities to be
able to function efficiently. Measures to be undertaken under the project
would rectify this situation (para 3.13).
1.15      (ii) FNFP is responsible for carrying out the replantation program.
Constituted as an autonomous public entity, it receives about 90% of its
funding directly from the taxes and royalties collected from the conces-
sionaires by DEFC. FNFP has a Board of Directors of which the Director of
DEFC is a member, but FNFP operates with considerable autonomy. The structure
of FNFP is largely regionalized under the direction of a small Yaounde head
office, dividing the country into chantiers, which correspond largely to
provinces. In each chantier, a regional chef de chantier supervises a number
of chefs de bases who are responsible for actually carrying out the planting
programs. FNFPs planting program has, to date, been modest in scope, around
2,500 ha per annum, of which 60% has been enrichment planting in the tropical
high forest. The balance of its plantations have been established in the
savanna zone. The technical performance of FNFP has been poor, as shown in
high rates of loss recorded in new plantations, low levels of maintenance
undertaken and generally slow and high cost work. The slump in revenues
received from taxes and royalties, from a peak of CFAF 1.1 billion (US$4.1
million) in 1978 to CFAF 0.7 billion (US$2.6 million) in 1980 has also caused
severe budgetary problems for FNFP. However, with the proposed reinforcement
of its technical, financial and administrative capabilities (para 3.12), FNFP
is expected to become an effective instrument for executing Government-s
regeneration policies.
1.16      Within both DEFC and FNFP there is a serious shortage of manpower
with field experience at the professional and technical level, which con-
strains efficient administration and development of the sector. Professional
staff education needs are being supplied by the Ecole Nationale Superieure
Agronomique at Nkolbisson. This school has the capacity to produce 16
graduates a year, which is sufficient for Cameroon's future requirements.
At the technician level, the college at Mbalmayo currently produces 10 tech--
nicians a year which is also adequate to meet foreseeable needs. However, the
need is to offer these graduates--as well as those already employed--the
opportunities to participate in practical and technically well-managed
operations, which would be one of the objectives of the proposed project.
1.17      Some production of hybrid pine and eucalypt seed is currently
carried out within research trials and plantations. However, there is pres-
ently no institution with overall responsibility for importing, certifying,
selecting and multiplying tree seed of good quality. As a result, the vigor



-7-
of presently available hybrids is beginning to weaken as the best provenances
of exotic trees are not being found and spread. The proposed project would
begin to centralize this responsibility in FNFP.
1.18      The interests of the forestry exploitation industries are repre-
sented to Government by a trade federation, the Syndicat des Exploitants
Forestiers, which participates in regular information meetings with DEFC,
and MINAGRI.
(e) Objectives, Strategies and Policies
1.19      Government objectives in the forestry sector, as defined in laws
passed in 1973 and 1974, are:
- to extend the area of gazetted state forest;
-  to ensure rational planned exploitation of forests;
-  to regenerate forests by enrichment planting in the dense forest and
by reforestation in the savannas; and
- to increase domestic value added through processing.
These goals are considered reasonable given the present state of forestry
industries and resources. However, there has been only mixed success in
attaining them. Gazetting of new areas is progressing slowly, the rate of
forest regeneration is less than half of targets, and survival rates are low.
The percentage of domestic value added is 20% below desired levels. These
achievements are all the more disappointing since the targets themselves have
been modest and the budgets committed to their attainment have been consider-
able. The principal factor that is now perpetuating this situation is a
general lack of field-level, technical expertise in the FNFP cadres who should
organize and monitor the execution of programs.
(f) Bank and Other External Involvement
1.20      The proposed project would be the Bank's first direct involvement
in Cameroon s forestry sector in a project exclusively for the sector.
However, two rural development projects--Western Highlands Rural Develop-
ment Project (Cr. 784-CM), and Northern Province Rural Development Project
(Cr. 1075-CM, Ln. 1919-CM)--have forestry components with the objectives of
promoting small-scale reforestation and erosion control. The Western High-
lands programs have been progressing well, and the Northern Province re-
forestation component is just beginning. The proposed project is in line
with the Bank-s Forestry Sector Policy Paper which confirms the view that
industrial-scale wood plantations, such as those proposed here, have an equal
place with small-scale social forestry components in countries overall
forestry strategies, and that strengthening sectoral institutions is vital.



-8 -
1.21      The Cameroon forestry sector has also benefited from bilateral
assistance in the training of forestry engineers at Nkolbisson, and in
forestry research. An ongoing pilot forestation program in the SEMRY zone
(Map, IBRD 15692) is providing valuable experience and identification of
species on which the proposed project would build in the same region.
Under another bilateral agreement, technical assistance is being provided
in forestry sector policy, aerial photography for forestry survey, classifi-
cation and inventory work which would complement the proposed project.
II.  THE PROJECT AREA                                              q
2.01      Location:  The proposed project would involve tree planting in three
separate, ecologically different areas, and reinforce improved forest tree
seed production on four sites. Project plantings would cover 11,000 ha.
Of this 8,800 ha would be planted at Edea in the south-west to supply the
Cellucam pulpmill with plantation grown pulpwood.  Another 1,000 ha would be
planted for utility timber and transmission poles near Ngaoundere in the
Adamaoua Plateau to complement an existing 600 ha plantation; and 1,200 ha
would be planted near Maga in the north, as a continuation of the fuelwood
plantation of 600 ha already being established by SEMRY (para 1.21). In both
of these latter zones, land is available for aforestation and considering the
scarcity of wood in the region, aforestation is an economically desirable use
of land. All the proposed sites, indicated on the map (IBRD 15692) are served
by good quality roads, regular internal flights to the Ngaoundere and Maga
(Maroua) areas and regular communications.
2.02      Topography and Soils:  Each of the three areas have distinctive
topographies and soils. The terrain at Edea is about 75% plantable, the
remainder being rocky hills, swamps or steep river and stream banks. The
forest soils are deep and well-drained,. frequently highly leached and acid.
At Ngaoundere, the terrain of the 1,500 m high plateau is gently undulating
with occasional rocky valleys. The soils are generally deep with occasional
outcrops of granites from which they are derived. At Maga, the sites are flat
and before the construction of the control dike by SEMRY, the area had been
frequently inundated during the rains, except for occasional islands on which
villages were sited. The soils vary from heavy compacted silts overlying
sands to sandy areas overlying compacted silts.
2.03      Vegetation:  The southern Edea area carries evergreen tropical high
forest which has been selectively exploited. The Ngaoundere vegetation is
tree savanna with an undergrowth of perennial tussock grasses. At Maga, the
flood plains carry only annual grasses, with a very sparse tree savanna
vegetation on islands of higher land.
2.04      Climate:  At Edea, the annual rainfall amounts to an average of
over 2,500 mm with high humidities and a dry season of only two months.
Ngaoundere has an average annual rainfall of about 1,600 mm with a six month
dry season. Maga has about 750 mm rain annually, with a six month dry season.
Temperatures do not limit vegetative growth. Maximum mean annual temperatures
vary from 400C at Maga to 240C at Ngaoundere. The lowest relative humi-
dities are recorded at Maga with 10% at the height of the dry season.



- 9 -
2.05      Infrastructure:  All three plantation areas are located close to
existing facilities. At Edea, the Cellucam logging roads, workshops, offices
and social and other services would be utilized (para 4.02). At Ngaoundere,
the FNFP nursery, store and offices would be upgraded under the project. At
Maga, the existing SEMRY workshops and services are of good standard, and the
existing nursery would be maintained (para 4.05).
2.06      Population:  Edea has a population of about 55,000 and there are
many villages on the outskirts of the 160,000 ha Cellucam concession area.
The town of Ngaoundere has a population of about 45,000. At completion of
SEMRY II, it is expected that about 60,000 people will be living in new
villages within the area. Cellucam has been able to date to recruit suffi-
cient labor from the Edea labor pool at the industrial wage rates it is
required to pay. The additional 525 man-years of local labor required for
project plantations, which would account for about 33% of the total Cellucam
labor force at peak implementation periods, would also be paid at the indus-
trial wage rate, and would be available. There would be adequate labor
available at Ngaoundere and Maga for the proposed planting programs.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      As its principle objectives, the project would:
(a) expand the contribution of the forestry sector to the national
economy through the establishment of plantations of about 11,000 ha
of pine and eucalypts not found natively in the country; and
(b) enhance the capabilities of the responsible Government agencies to
maintain continuous regeneration of the forests through an improve-
ment of their technical capacities to execute reforestation and
their abilities to recover revenue by the efficient application of
existing forestry tax and royalties regulations.
3.02      Plantations would be of two types:  the first would involve refore-
station of the areas of natural high forest cut by Cellucam for its pulping
operations to allow this enterprise to take advantage eventually of plantation
grown wood (para 1.11); the second would be afforestation of areas in the
savanna regions where wood is in short supply, both in block plantations, and
in pilot village woodlots.
3.03      Institutional development would be closely linked to the execution
of the plantations proposed. The improvement of Government's technical
capacity would be achieved, in part, through the participation of FNFP (para
1.15) operating staff in the reforestation programs which would give them
inservice experience, and the establishment of improved tree seed gardens.
Capacity would also be raised through direct reinforcement of FNFP head-
quarters operations, planning, and monitoring capabilities. The improvement in



- 10 -
Government's ability to recover taxes and royalt;es from the forestry sector
would be achieved through a direct reinforcement of the operational capabili-
ties of the DEFC (para 1.13) which is responsible inter alia, for these
functions. This reinforcement would focus on the immediate improvement of
DEFC's ability to assess and collect taxes and royalties.
3.04      Over five years, project finance would be provided for:
(a)  establishment of a plantation of about 5,200 ha of pines and
3,600 ha of eucalypts in the Edea project site. This would
be done by Cellucam as contractor and supervised by FNFP, with the
aim of providing uniform, high-quality pulpwood for the pulpmill;
(b)  establishment of a plantation of about 1,000 ha of eucalypts
in blocks of between 50 ha and 200 ha, and 200 ha in pilot village
woodlots near Maga (SEMRY). This would be undertaken by SEMRY for
the eventual use as household firewood and building poles;
(c)  establishment of a plantation of 750 ha of pines and 250 ha of
eucalypts at Ngaoundere by FNFP, for eventual use as utility
saw-logs and transmission poles;
(d)  establishment of a unit within FNFP responsible for setting-up
Il ha in four sites as improved tree seed production gardens;
(e)  provision of 16 man-years of specialist services not currently
available in Cameroon in areas of plantation management and finan-
cial control for FNFP and SEMRY;
(f)  provision of necessary logistical, material, and operational
support for DEFC to improve its tax and royalties assessment
and collection capacity; and
(g)  provision of funds to undertake specialized studies, including
preparation of a possible follow-up project, and to support appro--
priate overseas training of selected personnel.
B. Detailed Features
(a) Edea Plantation
3.05      The 8,800 plantation program at Edea would establish pine and
eucalypts in the tropical forest zones logged out by Cellucam for its
pulping operations. Cellucam would, thus, complete primary land clearing,
and establish basic roads which would be later used in plantation work. The
costs of windrowing and burning of residues not suitable for pulping would be
financed under the project. This would be done with appropriate mechanical
means, leaving a plantation site equal to about 85% of the area originally
logged. Preparation and replanting would follow with a minimum time delay to
minimize the cost of removing natural regrowth of weedy species. The joint



- il1 -
logging, land clearing and preparation, and planting program over the five-
year period would be as follows:
PYl    PY2    PY3    PY4    PYS    Total
--(ha)…
Logging (not financed by project)  2,200  3,000  3,000  3,000  3,000   14,200
Clearing and Preparation            1,350  1,500  2,200  2,500  1,250    8,800
Planting                               800  1,100  1,900  2,500  2,500    8,800
Maintenance (including 400 ha
planted earlier, cummulative)    1,200  2,300  4,200  6,700  9,200    9,200
Appropriate weeding would require a cumulative maintenance program as shown in
the schedule. A nursery would be established to provide seedlings.
3.06      The pines selected for planting would be Pinus caribaea, var
hondurensis, which, in the environment of Edea, is expected to show a mean
annual increment (m.a.i.) of 18 m3 over bark (o.b.) per ha, and reach
cutting size in 14 years. The eucalypts would be Eucalyptus urophylla, which
regenerates from its own root following cutting (coppices), and has shown a
m.a.i of 25 m3 o.b. per ha in trials at Edea. This variety would be har-
vested after nine years. Variations in m.a.i between 15 m and 29 m3 per
ha have been measured at Edea for P. Caribaea and have risen as high as
40 m3/ha for E. urophylla depending on provenances. Provenance trials
would continue as part of the regular planting program.
3.07      Project financing would cover the purchase of heavy equipment for
supplemental land clearing, preparation, plantation maintenance equipment, and
vehicles; construction of incremental offices and equipment for nurseries;
maintenance of logging roads, and the hiring of labor. To avoid duplicating
installation of support infrastructure such as garages, repair workshops, and
stores for spares, these services would be hired from Cellucam on an actual
cost basis. FNFP plantation section heads and work team foremen would be
assigned to Edea, to work under Cellucam's general management. They would
receive in-service training in plantation site and work team management in a
program conducted by Cellucam, modeled on a program already in use for train-
ing logging site managers and work team foremen (para 4.09). Cellucam would
receive payment for this service, and for general management services includ-
ing inter alia overall management of the plantation program, personnel manage-
ment, coordination of plantation with logging operations, and procurement.
Government and FNFP would enter into a contract, acceptable to the Bank,
with Cellucam specifying these arrangements. Points to be included in this
contract were discussed with Government and Cellucam during appraisal, and a
further draft was discussed at negotiations. Signature of this contract would
be a condition of loan effectiveness (paras 4.02, 4.03).



- 12 -
(b)  SEMRY Plantation
3.08      The project would include a program for planting 1,000 ha of sui-,
table eucalypt (E. camaldulensis) and other species in blocks, over the
five-year project planting program, on non-irrigated land within the SEMRY
II project zone, expanding the results of a successful pilot program begun
with bilateral assistance (para 1.21). Sufficient funds would be made avail-
able under the project to provide for incremental equipment and operating
expenditures required track-making, land preparation (sub-soil tillage) and
nurseries to execute the program. Personnel would include an internationally
recruited forester with experience in arid-zone plantation establishment to
direct block plantations and execution of a pilot village woodlot program
(para 3.09). Other executory personnel would be seconded from FNFP. Although
the SEMRY project zone contains sufficient land for both forestry, irrigated
foodcrops and rain-fed foodcrops, a detailed soil survey on a scale of 1:20,000
would be financed to assure proper final siting of forestry, within a land use
plan to be made by SEMRY following the survey.
3.09      A pilot program for establishing 200 ha in village woodlots--to
produce firewood for home use and sale, building poles and leaf-fodder--would
also be undertaken as part of the project. The program would be directed to
pre-cooperative groups of farmers organized in the newly established SEMRY
settlements. Such groups would receive free seedlings (including fruit and
fodder-bearing trees) and about 20 ha of prepared land which they would
subdivide into individual parcels of between 0.5 and 1.0 ha each. Farmers
would plant and maintain their plots individually.  Women would be a speciaL
target group of this activity. Field work would be organized and supervised
by FNFP staff seconded to SEMRY for this purpose. An agreement specific to
each group's circumstances would be negotiated between SEMRY/FNFP and the
farmers, which would define the rights to the land involved, the duties of the
farmers with respect to planting, maintenance and protection from fires and
animals, and the earliest date at which the wood could be cut. The agreement
would also specify a stumpage fee to be collected by FNFP at the time of
cutting to cover initial land preparation costs. Very little experience is
presently available in Cameroon to guide the evolution of such a program
although some work is currently underway under the auspices of the Western
Highlands Rural Development Project (Cr. 784-CM) which is partially financed
by IDA. Thus, periodic visits would be made by project staff to the Western
Highlands as part of their inservice training.  In light of the lack of
experience in this kind of project, Government agreed at negotiations that no
works would be undertaken for any of the village woodlots until a plan of
action for carrying them out including contractual arrangements with farmers,
had been approved by the Bank (para 8.01a).
(c) Ngaoundere Plantation
3.10      The plantation program to be financed under the project would in-
clude five annual plantings of 200 ha blocks, which would be in addition
to FNFP's regular annual program of about 50 ha in this area which FNFP



- 13 -
would continue following the start of the project. As the ongoing planta-
tions, project plantations would be established on land classified as forest
reserve under usual administrative procedures, and would belong to the State.
Project planting would add 750 ha of pines (P. kesiya and P. caribaea) and
250 ha of eucalypts (E. grandis and E. cloeziana).  Land clearing would be
done mechanically to allow for complete stump removal and adequate soil
*        preparation--with FNFP selling the salvage savanna wood (about 4,000 m3 per
year) to private buyers for firewood. Existing nurseries would be expanded to
produce the required seedlings. The plantation would be executed following
annual work plans approved by FNFP and the Bank (para 8.01c).  Project funds
would finance the acquisition of required incremental equipment, service
vehicles and nurseries. As the new sites would be increasingly distant from
Ngaoundere, modest on-site encampments would be constructed in the plantations
for staff engaged in maintenance and plantation protection.
(d) Tree Seed Production Unit
3.11      A Seed Production Unit would be established as part of FNFP and
would be responsible for:
-    obtaining and registering imported forest tree seed;
-    organizing and executing, in close co-operation with forest
research, a series of provenance trials of all the important
plantation species;
-    establishing seed production sites in each major ecological region
of the country for eucalypts and pines. About 11 ha of P. caribaea,
P. oocarpa, P. kesiya, E. grandis, E. urophylla, E. deglupta and
E. cloeziana would be planted in four sites;
-    carrying out a systematic examination of all established plantations
to select superior individuals from which cuttings would be taken
for the establishment of clonal tree seed orchards. Cuttings would
be taken from the indigenous species Triplochiton as a training
exercise for nurserymen and an additional five ha of this species
would be established for production of clonal material for future
plantations; and
-    making use of all existing relevant technology in forestry genetics
and tree-breeding.
This program would take time to execute, and during the five-year project
period the seed unit would only initiate work in this area. Training of
local staff would be an important function of this unit, and the setting up
of the unit and its work program would be supported by consultants in this
specialized field. Normal nursery and plantation establishment techniques
would be used for the production of plants from seed. The specialized known
techniques for raising rooted cuttings would also be utilized.



- 14 -
(e) Strengthening FNFP
3.12      Under the project, FNFP would be provided with about 12 man-years
of technical assistance and accompanying material support, to reinforce its
operations in the areas of annual work planning and performance monitoring,
financial management, and management of individual plantations. Although all
three aspects require attention to assure a successful project, the need for
strengthened FNFP financial management would be particularly critical to
administer Government's financial interests in the Edea Plantation.
(f)  Strengthening DEFC
3.13      Improvements in the operating efficiency of DEFC would be made
by providing finance: firstly for the purchase of vehicles and equipment
to give staff the necessary mobility and to conduct on-site inspection and
verification of logging operations and records of wood harvested; secondly
for the purchase of office equipment and calculators for a more efficient
processing and monitoring of tax and royalties notices and collections; and
thirdly for the refurbishing of offices and rest houses in the field of the
assessment and monitoring personnel. In addition, project funds would be
provided for up to 45 man-months of consultancy services to be recruited as
necessary (para 4.08) and for adequate running of vehicles and offices.
(g) Studies and Preparation of Possible Follow-up Project
3.14      Provision would be made under the project for the recruitment of up
to 43 man-months of specialists consultancies in various areas relating to
forestry growth, protection and utilization, on a needs basis, agreed between
the Government, the Bank, and CDC. Terms of reference to guide these consul-
tancies are given in the project file. In addition, following a mid-term
review of progress under the project, preparation of a possible follow-up
project could begin, for which financing for up to 12 man-months of consultancy
services would be provided.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
4.01      Project organization and management would fall within the general
institutional structure of the forestry sector (paras 1.14, 1.15); that
is, FNFP and DEFC. These agencies would be appropriately supported to
be able to deal with the added responsibilities created under the project
(paras 3.12, 3.13). FNFP would make special arrangements with Cellucam and
SEMRY for the field execution of Edea and SEMRY plantations and would execute
the Ngaoundere plantation and the Improved Seed Production Unit itself.
Technical specification of the establishment and maintenance parameters are
given in the project file.



- 15 -
B. Plantation Arrangements
4.02      The Edea Plantation component would be executed by Cellucaam. whîch
would serve as a contractor for the actual planting of trees on the account
of FNFP. FNFP would pass on project funds and provide field-level seconded
*        personnel who would be temporarily integrated into Cellucam.  Cellucam would
organize and perform the planting operations, coordinating them with its
pulp-log felling operations. Thus, Government would own the trees planted
-        during the five-year program and Cellucam would purchase them at an appropri-
ate stumpage fee (para 6.03) when the trees reached optimal pulp-log age.
These principles would be the basis of a contract to be entered into by
FNFP on one hand, and Cellucam on the other. A draft contract was discussed
at negotiations and signing of a satisfactory contract would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (para 8.02 b).
4.03      The agreement between FNFP and Cellucam would also cover detailed
executing arrangements. A steering committee composed of Cellucam, FNFP and
Government representatives would review and approve annual work plans and
budgets, the hiring of consultants, staffing appointments to key Cellucam
reforestation unit positions, and discuss and make recommendations with regard
to any issues or problems arising during the execution of this component.
Cellucam would prepare detailed annual work plans and budgets, hire field
labor, make procurement arrangements, hold and manage project assets on behalf
of FNFP, and prepare quarterly (unaudited) accounts and annual (audited)
accounts and progress reports. FNFP would second field management staff to
Cellucam who would be organized as shown in the organization chart, and would
monitor accounts and progress with on-site staff. FNFP would reimburse
Cellucam for actual costs incurred for the reforestation works its executes
under the project. In addition, FNFP would make periodic payments to Cellucam
for support services, determined on a basis to be specified in the agreement,
and payable in proportion to progress made in planting. Such expenditure
would include the share of Cellucam's general overhead and Forestry Department
management costs attributable to the plantation program. This attribution
would be made on the basis of a formula linking increases in Cellucam-s
operating costs and personnel numbers over pre-project levels, excluding
mill work. An estimate of the size of the payments to be made to Cellucam
for support services would be included in the annual budget, to be submitted
for the approval of the co-lenders by March 31 preceding the fiscal year of
the project (para 8.01c). FNFP would nominate an accountant who would be
responsible for monitoring project funds used by Cellucam.
4.04      The SEMRY reforestation components would be executed through the
SEMRY Forestry Division. An internationally recruited forester with qualifi-
cations acceptable to the Bank would direct the work. He would have two FNFP
seconded deputies: one responsible for the block plantation component and the
other for the pilot village woodlot scheme. The Forestry Division would be
administered within SEMRY's administration system which would provide regular
progress reports, and financial accounts to FNFP for inclusion in consolidated
project statements. On the basis of the land use study (para 3.08), the



- 16 -
Forestry Division would select the sites to be reforested.  It would make and
follow annual work plans and budgets, which would be approved by FNFP and the
Bank (para 8.01 c) and arrange for SEMRY to maintain tracks and hire laborers,
and maintain and account for project assets. FNFP would second site and work
team foremen to SEMRY to conduct field work, and would make available the
technical advice of the Supervising Plantation Manager (para 4.06). An
agreement acceptable to the Bank, specifying inter alia the planting program,
its technical specifications, along with the administrative responsibilities
of FNFP and SEMRY would be made between FNFP and SEMRY. Its signature would
be a condition of disbursement for this component (para 8.03). The residual
assets from the ongoing bilateral pilot project would be put at the disposal
of the proposed project.
4.05      Executing the SEMRY pilot village woodlot component would be flexible
and would emphasize basic principles which have been found successful in other
Bank-financed village forestry projects (para 3.09). The services of a short-
term socio-economic consultant would be secured to analyse the development of
the program and to ensure that it could be reproduced and expanded.
C. Strengthening FNFP
4.06      FNFP-s capacity to execute Government-s forestry regeneration
programs would be strengthened: first, through the in-service training of
FNFP engineers and technicians who would be seconded to work in executing
project-supported plantations (para 4.09); and, second, through the reinfor-
cement of FNFP Headquarters technical and financial management.  An interna-"
tionally recruited forestry engineer/manager would be responsible as Program
Officer for establishing detailed annual reforestation programs within FNFP
following: (i) the broad guidelines established for FNFP; (ii) the limits
imposed by the availability of resources; and (iii) the recurrent needs for
maintenance and replanting.  He would also initiate periodic site-by-site
monitoring and recording to verify progress, to identify bottlenecks and serze
as a basis for subsequent annual planning. An internationally recruited
Project Accountant would be responsible for establishing and supervising
financial control and reporting for each project component, and for improving,
through advice and collaboration with FNFP accounting staff and management,
FNFP-s overall financial control and reporting.   Lastly, an internationally
recruited Supervising Plantation Manager, stationed at Garoua, would introduce
on a site-by-site basis together with existing FNFP plantation managers,
improved techniques, and select species and resources appropriate for the
specific microecologies of the Northern Province. He would supervise the
execution of the new methods.  He would also liaise with IRA forestry research
personnel to advise on research needs and apply promising results. All
internationally recruited staff--including the Director of Forestry, SEMRY
(para 4.04)--would have qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank,
and would serve for four years, following detailed terms of reference given in
the project file (para 8.01b).



- 17 -
D. Strengthening DEFC
4.07      Strengthening DEFC-s capacity to assess and collect taxes and
royalties from the forestry exploitation sector would be implemented by the
Director of DEFC, through the Service de lExploitation et des Industries
Forestieres. In each of the headquarters in the five provinces where forestry
concessions are now exploited (West, South West, Littoral, Central South
and East) senior officers have been designated as responsible for calculating
and administering tax and royalties assessments within the province, and
Government has agreed that such persons would be in post throughout the
project investment period (para 8.01d). The head of each provincial arm
of DEFC (the Conservator) would be responsible for organizing within his
province, regular visits by Section Heads to their respective forestry posts
and the concessions in their sections, controlled by regular visits from
headquarters. Quarterly reports of these field activities would be prepared
and submitted to DEFC Headquarters, where the Chief of the Service de
l'Exploitation et des Industries Forestieres would be responsible for
monitoring and control.
4.08      Government has made significant strides in improving its tax col-
lection performance and is introducing new measures to strengthen this per-
formance. In addition, Government agreed that an internationally recruited
specialist in forestry tax assessment and enforcement would be employed for
about 24 manmonths to assist the Director, DEFC in executing the measures
Financing a consultation of about 6 months in the area of public administra-
tion would also be provided for. Finally, as the enforcement of penalties
could raise legal problems with concessionaires, funds would be made available
to secure up to 15 months of services of legal counsel over the 5-year
project investment period to assist DEFC as needed in its dealings with the
forestry industry. All consultants would have qualifications, experience and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
E. Training
4.09      The major element of training local personnel would be in-service
training within ongoing plantation operations. A program of rotating second-
ments to Cellucam and SEMRY of FNFP site supervisors and work group foremen
would be organized and monitored by the Director of FNFP with the assistance
of the project financed Program Officer (para 4.06).  Secondments would be
for periods of two to three years depending on the needs of the recipient
agencies and FNFP, with the objective of giving all of the 50 FNFP engineers
and senior technicians the opportunity of working at either Cellucam or SEMRY
during the five years of the project investment period. Within FNFP, the



- 18 -
Project Accountant would be responsible for up-grading FNFP-s accounting
services, including the techniques used by FNFP accounting staff, to standards
acceptable for project execution. These standards are described in the
project file. Provision would also be made to finance about 12 man-months of
participation of selected FNFP and DEFC personnel in specialized out-of-
country short courses.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
4
4.10      Within FNFP, the Program Officer (para 4.06) would establish a
procedure of monitoring plantation operations as a basis for annual work
planning and budgeting. This would involve weekly achievement and resource-
use reporting by work team foremen to site managers, monthly reporting by site
managers to zone managers, and quarterly aggregated reporting by zone managers
to headquarters. Each supervisor would be responsible for periodic verifica-
tion visits of the services reporting to him. The monthly reports on sites
would also be reviewed by the Supervising Plantation Manager (para 4.06).
Monitoring financial flows would be the responsibility of the FNFP Accounts
department, which would include an accountant stationed at Edea for the Edea
plantation component.
4.11      Monitoring of the fiscal matters in the forestry sector would
continue to be the responsibility of the DEFC. The Director would institute
through each provincial Conservator, periodic control and verification visits
of the forestry exploitations made, hierarchically, by forestry technicians,
section heads, and the designated officers in the provincial headquarters.
4.12      Periodic evaluation of progress would be part of the responsibili-
ties of the strengthened headquarters staff of FNFP and DEFC. In the second
half of PY3, a mid-term evaluation of the project would be conducted by
consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank. Recommendations of this review would be discussed by Government,
FNFP, DEFC and the Bank and used inter alia as a basis for the preparation in
PY4 of a possible follow-up project.
G. Seed Production and Liaison with Research
4.13      The seed production unit to be established within FNFP (para 3.11)
would build upon the results of the elimination trials successfully carried
out for many years by IRA/CTFT at Mangombe and elsewhere which have identified
probable species for Cameroon. The seed production unit would continue,
cooperate and exchange information with these researchers. The work program
would be supported through a 3 month consultancy to take place at the beginning
of the project; this would be updated annually during subsequent 1 month
consultancies. FNFP plantation projects near the four sites to be established
would provide land, planting services and maintenance.



- 19 -
4.14      Within each plantation, yield production trials of trees of dif-
ferent provenances would also be carried out as part of the production
components. The FNFP Supervising Plantation Manager and Prcgram Officer would
prepare these trials in conjunction with IRA officials0 Close contact would
be maintained via FNFP headquarters with the research efforts of IRA. This
would particularly apply in the Northern Province where many FNFP sites with
considerable ecological variation are planted simultaneously. FNFP would also
consult with IRA concerning applied research needs.
V.  COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project costs over the five-year investment period are esti-
mated at CFAF 9,602 million (US$35.5 million), of which CFAF 4,374 million
(US$16.2 million) would be foreign costs. Cost estimates include an estimated
CFAF 632 million (US$ 2.3 million) of identifiable taxes. Identifiable
import taxes on items imported for the project have been excluded, since
Goverament agreed to exempt goods purchased for the project from import
taxes. Thus project cost net of taxes amounts to CFAF 8,970 million (US$33.2
million), of which foreign exchange represents 49%.
5.02      Cost estimates are based on January 1981 prices and include (i)
physical contingencies of 10% on buildings and 5% on all other costs except
personnel, consultancies and the management fee on which no physical con-
tingencies have been calculated; and (ii) price contingencies calculated on
the basis of the following expected rates of price increase:
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Local Costs           12       12       12      12       12      12
Foreign Costs          9        8.5     8.5      7.5      7.0     6.0
Contingencies are equivalent to 44% of base costs or 30% of total costs.
Estimated project costs are summarised in Table 1 below and detailed in
the project file.



- 20 -
Prolect Cost Estimates
Pcreigu
-----CAF Million                -          ----US$ Million----                       Pchnge
Local       Foreign         Total         Local        Foreign         Total             Z
FNFP Components
Edea Plantations
Vehicles. Equipment and Buildings               68          864             932           0.3          3.2            3.5             91
Plantation Investments                        2537         1080           3617            9.4          4.0           13.4             30
2605         1944           4549            9.7          7.2          16.9              43
SE!IY Il (Maga) Plantations
Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings               33          108             141           0.1          0.4           0.5              80
Plantation Investments                         183           si             264           0.7          0.3            1.0             33
216          189            405           0.8           0.7           1.5              47
Ngaoundere Plantations
Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings                7           54              61            -  *        0.2            0.2             67
Plantation Investments                         137           54             191           0.5          0.2           0.7              29
144          108            252            0.5          0.4           0.9              4
Improved Seed Production Unit
Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings               21           27             48            0.1          0.1           0.2              50
Plantation Investments                          58           27             85            0.2          0.1           0.3              33
79           54            133           0.3           0.2           0.5              4Q
technical Assistance
Vehicles
Personnel, Corsultancies and                     1            9             10             - *          - *           - *             90
Vehicle Operation                              5         621             626            - *         2.3            2.3             99
6          630            636             -*          Z.3           2.3              99
Sub-Total n,FP Components                       3050         2975           5966           11.3         10.8          22.1              49
Technical and Material Suppwrt for DEFC
Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings            98           270            368           0.3           1.0           1.3             77
Iacremental Op.Casts & Consultancies        139           216            355           0.5          0.8            L.3             67
237          486            723            0.8          1.8           2.6             6'
TOTAL BASE COST                                 3287         3402           6689           12.1         12.6          24.7              51
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                        49          108            157           0.2           0.4           0.6             67
Price                                        1892           864           2756           7.0           3.2          10.2             31
1941          972           2913            7.2          3.6          10.8              33
TOTAL PROJECT COST                             5228          4374           9602          19.3          16.2          35.5              46
* less than $50,000.



- 21 -
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      The project would be financed by a Bank loan (US$17.0 million),
by a loan from the United Kingdom's Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) (US$7.4 million) and by the Government (US$11.1 million). This financ-
ing would be applied as shown in Table 2. The Bank loan would finance 72% of
the project-s foreign exchange cost (US$11.6 million). It would also finance
US$5.4 million of incremental costs of strengthening DEFC and FNFP, which is
considered justified in face of the critical need to assure the effective
performance of these two institutions.  Total Bank finance would cover 51% of
project costs net of tax.
5.04      The Bank loan would be made to Government for a term of 20 years,
including a five-year grace period, at the interest rate prevailing at the
time of Board presentation. The Bank loan would be passed on to FNFP and
DEFC in the form of grants. The CDC loan is expected to be on the same terms
as the Bank loan and would finance 30% of the estimated costs of the Edea
Plantations component. The fulfilment of all conditions precedent for the
effectiveness of the CDC loan would be a condition of effectiveness for the
Bank loan (para 8.02 a).
C. Onlending Arrangements
5.05      As agreed at negotiations, Government would make available to FNFP
and DEFC all funds necessary to carry out the project, including the proceeds
of the Bank and CDC loans, and Government's own contribution, in the form of a
grant (para 8.01 e). Although FNFP enjoys the legal status of an autonomous
agency, it functions purely to execute Government plantation programs, and is
not commercially motivated. Therefore, making subsidiary loans to FNFP is not
warranted. DEFC is a government department, making subsidiary loans unneces-
sary. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan that Govern-
ment establish separate project accounts for each of the components out of
which local operating expenses would be financed, and in order that the
Project would commence, it deposit in these accounts not less than: CFAE 400
million for the Edea Plantation, CFAF 35 million for SEMRY plantation; CFAF 25
million for the Ngaoundere Plantation; CFAF 12 million for FNFP Headquarters;
and CFAF 33 million for DEFC (para 8.02 c). The Ngaoundere Plantation account
would be established at FNFP headquarters and the DEFC funds would be kept in
an existing FNFP sub-account for DEFC. These accounts would be replenished
throughout the year from the proceeds of the Bank and CDC loans, and at the
beginning of the fiscal year with Government's contribution following approval
budgets for the project components. FNFP would supervise the flow of project
funds through the five components. In addition to the proposed incremental
Government contribution to the Ngaoundere component, FNFP would maintain
operating funds to the Ngaoundere base for the ongoing planting program at
their 1981 level of CFAF 40 million (US$148,000). To minimize supplemental
land clearing costs following logging, the proposed reforestation program in



- 22 -
Table 2
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Bank           CDC        Government       Total
Edea Plantations
Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings             2.9           2.2            -             5.1
Plantation Investments                        7.1           5.2           6.9            19.2
10.0           7.4           6.9           24.3
SEMRY Il (Maga) Plantations
Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings             0.4            -            0.1             0.5
Plantation Development and                    0.7            -            0.8             1.5
Operating Costs                          ____
1.1            -            0.9            2.0
Ngaoundere Plantation
Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings             0.2            -            0.1             0.3
Plantation Investments                        0.4            -            0.7             1.1
0.6            -            0.8            1.4
Improved Seed Production Unit
Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings             0.1           -             0.1             0.2
Plantation Investments
0.2                         0.3            0.5
0.3           -             0.4            0.7
Technical Assistance to FNFP
Vehicles                                      0.1            -              - *           0.1
Personnel, Consultancies and                  2.7            -             0.5            3.2
Vehicle Operation
2.8            -            0.5            3.3
Technical and Material Support for DEFC
Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings             1.3             -            0.4            1.7
Incremental Op.Costs & Consultancies          0.9            -            1.2            2.1
2.2            -            1.6            3.8
TOTAL                                            17.0            7.4          11.1           35.5
Percentage of total                                48             21            31             100
Total finance  excluding taxes                    17.0           7.4           8.8           33.2
Percentage of total excluding taxes                51             22            27            100
* less than $50,000.



-23 -
the Edea Plantations component would commence in mid-1981. Retroactive
financing for these activities would be provided for up to US$1.0 million from
the Bank loan, with contributions of US$0.7 million from CDC and US$0,7
million from the Government to cover expenditures incurred after July 1, 1981.
D. Procurement
5.06      Contracts of US$100,000 or more, principally for the purchase of
heavy equipment, would be awarded through international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Goods so purchased are expected to total
about US$5.2 million (Bank, US$3.3 million). Purchases would be grouped
whenever possible to derive maximum benefits from bulk procurement. Contracts
below US$100,000 but more than US$50,000 would be awarded through local
competitive bidding procedure, while those of US$50,000 or less would be on
the basis of quotations from not fewer than three reputable suppliers.
Such contracts would be expected to aggregate about US$1.1 million (Bank,
US$0.7 million). Land preparation and forest track construction which must
be closely coordinated with planting operations, do not lend themselves to
procurement through competitive bidding and would therefore be carried out on
force account by the respective project plantation entities (US$2.9 million;
Bank, US$0.8 million). Small buildings valued at US$0.2 million (Bank, US$0.1
million) at Edea, SEMRY and Ngaoundere plantations would also be built on
force account. However, for the Seed Production Unit and DEFC components
building contracts valued at US$0.7 million (Bank, US$0.5 million) would be
awarded following locally advertised competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Contracts for 294 man-months of technical assistance with a
total value of about US$3.2 million (Bank, US$3.1 million) would be placed in
accordance with procedures for international recruitment. All terms of
reference, qualifications and contracts of the specialists to be recruited in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines would be satisfactory to the Bank.
About US$18.2 million (Bank, US$7.0 million) of project expenditures, mainly
consisting of operating costs and local staff salaries, does not lend itself
to bidding procedures and would be committed in accordance with established
practices, which are satisfactory. Payments made to Cellucam for management
services would be defined in the proposed execution contract with Cellucom
(paras 4.02 and 4.03) and would be about US$4.0 million (Bank, US$1.5 million).
E. Disbursement
5.07      The Bank loan would be disbursed over seven years, as shown in Annex
Table 1. This schedule is based on experience in disbursing Bank loans in
Cameroon. The Bank loan would cover project expenditures as follows:



- 24 -
Category                                   US$ Million  Disbursement %
1.   Edea Plantations
Vehicles, Equipment & Buildings                 2.3           60
Plantation Investment Costs including
Local Personnel & Cellucam
Expenditures                                  7.4           35
2.   SEMRY (Maga) Plantation
Vehicles, Equipment & Buildings                 0.4           75
Plantation Investment Costs including
Local Personnel                               0.6           50
3.   FNFP Components
(a)  Ngaoundere Plantation
Vehicles, Equipment, Buildings                  0.2           75
Plantation Investment Costs including
Local personnel                               0.1           35
(b)  Seed Production
Vehicles, Equipment, Buildings                  0.2           75
Incremental Operating Costs                     0.1           35
(c)  Technical Assistance and Consultancies
Vehicles & operating costs                      0.1           60
Expatriate Personnel'                           2.4          100
4.   Technical & Material Support to DEFC
Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings               1.2           75
Incremental Operating Costs                     0.4           35
Expatriate Consultancies                        0.4          100
5.   Unallocated                                          1.2
TOTAL                                          17.0



- 25 -
Disbursements for civil works, vehicles and equipment, payments to Cellucam
for support services, and consultant services would be fully documented.
Disbursements against project planting costs, including local salaries would
be against certified statements of expenditures. Supporting documentation
which would not be submitted with withdrawal applications would be retained
and made available for review by Bank project supervision missions. Proper
audit arrangements should be provided for expenditures financed against
certificates of expenditures.
5.08      The Project Accountant to be recruited for FNFP Headquarters (para
*        4.06) would, in addition to his responsibilities for accounting and financial
control of the FNFP components, coordinate the preparation of applications for
withdrawal from the Bank loan for all project components.
5.09      Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements.  FNFP would ensure the
keeping of records for the FNFP components consistent with sound accounting
practice and adequate to reflect the financial situation of each component and
their detailed costs of operations.  The Edea and SEMRY Plantation components
would make use of the accounting services of Cellucam and SEMRY. However,
separate accounts would be maintained for this purpose. These would be
supervised by FNFP. The accounting systems currently used by Cellucam and
SEMRY follow cost accounting procedures adequate to produce the statements of
expenditure and monthly trial balances required by FNFP, and this requirement
would be specified in the executing agreements to be signed for these compo-
nents (paras 4.02, 4.05).   The Project Accountant at FNFP would also advise
DEFC on improving its accounting and reporting procedures. FNFP would maintain
consolidated accounts for the whole project, summarizing the monthly trial
balances.
5.10      The accounts of the project as maintained by FNFP, would be subject
to an annual audit by an independent auditor with qualifications and terms of
reference acceptable to the  Bank.   The auditor's report would be furnished
to the Bank within four months after the close of FNFP-s financial year. In
addition, the auditors of Cellucam would furnish annually a certificate
stating the actual costs of services rendered during the preceding year by
Cellucam to the Edea Plantation.
5.11      FNFP and-DEFC would submit quarterly progress reports to Government
and to the Bank showing actual and budgeted expenditures, statements of
progress achieved and objectives for the forthcoming quarter by each project
component.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A Production
6.01      Production of wood from the plantations would begin following  the
project investment period, as shown in the following summary:



- 26 -
Category                  Project Year           Hectares Cut        Production in -000 m3
(Annually)              (Annually)
Pulpwood
15-26        (pine)          520                 136
Edea Plantation            15 and 23                  1,800                 588
16 and 24 (eucalypts)    1,800                   401
Fuel and Utility Wood
Ynd)    6  - 14  (pine and        440                   19
SEMRY and Ngaoundere)    15 - 23   eucalypts)    )22
Plantations          )
)    25 - 29  (pine)             150                    47
B. Markets and Marketing Arrangements
6.02      Following the plan to convert Cellucam from using natural forest to
plantation wood as a raw material (para 1.11), Cellucam would be the market
for the wood grown in the Edea Plantation. Pulpwood cutting would be con-
trolled so that from PY15 to PY26 (1995 to 2006) Cellucam would be able to
rely on plantation grown wood to meet 100% of its annual long-fiber wood
requirements from pines, and almost 100% of its short-fiber wood requirements
from eucalypts. To complete the transition from using tropical high forest to
plantation grown woods, and to achieve a production target of 80% short-fibre
bleached pulp and 20% long-fiber bleached pulp, Government and Cellucam would
continue planting sufficient eucalypts (about 2,500 ha per year) in PY6-PYll.
6.03      Cellucam would pay a stumpage fee for the plantation grown trees,
to be determined following principles specified in the execution contract
between Cellucam and FNFP (para 4.02). The principles determining the stum-
page fee were discussed at negotiations, and it was agreed that they should be
sufficient to allow Government-s recovery of the full cost of planting and
maintenance, and yield an acceptable rate of return after accounting for
inflation. In addition, it was agreed that Callucom should purchase the
plantation wood within a specified time frame following maturity of the trees.
On the other hand, it was agreed that should the stumpage fee exceed the value
of the wood determined on an import parity basis Cellucom could postpone its
purchase in that year. As an illustration of the cost recovery principal
taking estimated project costs in 1981 terms as a basis, and allowing an
arbitrary 2.5% real rate of return on investment, the stumpage fee should
exceed CFAF 2,820/m3 (US$10.44/m3), which would give a delivered wood cost
to Cellucam of CFAF 6,120/m3 (US$22.67/m3). This delivered wood cost is
within a range of costs currently facing pulp producers in many developed
countries (US$15/m3 to $30/m3).
6.04      The wood produced in block plantations at SEMRY would be absorbed in
the Maga market area, which includes the SEMRY zone, where demand is predicted
to grow at about 5% per year. Wood is scarce in this market, both because of
natural population increase and the recent relocation of about 25,000 people



- 27 -
(approximately 4,000 families) into the SEMRY zone. Plantation production
would help satisfy increasing demand in the area which is expected to grow
by 30,00Dm3 by PY5. Given the marketing possibilities, about half of the
wood would be sold as fuelwood and half as building poles. Rights ta cut on
various sized hectarages would be advertised for sale by SEMRY/FNFP and
wood would be sold on the stump to contract cutters. Minimum acceptable
contract prices would be above a minimum stumpage fee for the wood, which
would be at least sufficient to recover the establishment and maintenance
costs, estimated to be about CFAF 1,800/m3 (US$6.67/m3) in 1981 terms, and
which is presently about 15% of the current average market value of standing
eucalypts in the area. Villagers would also pay a stumpage fee for the wood
grown in village woodlots, payable when wood was eut, starting in PY6, to
allow FNFP/SEMRY to recover the cost of land preparation (para 3.09). Based
on estimated project costs, the stumpage fee for villagers would be at least
CFAF 760/m3 (US$2.80/m3) in 1981 terms which would be paid from cash
earned by the sale of a small quantity of wood in local markets.
6.05      The marketing possibilities in the Ngaoundere area indicate that of
the eucalypts produced, 5% could be sold as transmission poles, 25% as building
poles and 70% as fuelwood. For pines, half of the thinnings, taken through
PY7-PY19, could be fuelwood and half building poles. At clear felling, half
of the pines could be saw-logs. Annual consumption of fuel in the Ngaoundere
area is estimated at about 55,OOOm3, and demand is predicted to grow at
about 4.5% per year through to 1990. Thus, the 4,00Dm3 additional savanna
brush wood which would become available from project land clearing, and the
incremental annual production of 8,400m3 available after PY6, would be
readily absorbed. The market for transmission and telephone poles which
currently absorbs about 700m3 per year--much of this already supplied from
the FNFP Ngaoundere plantations--is expected to grow by about 15% per year as
further electrical and communications links are installed in the Northern
Province. Projected incremental pole production of 225m3 per year is less
than the additional 85Dm3 required annually after PY6 and would be readily
absorbed. Incremental building pole production of 1,125m3 per year would
also fall below expected incremental demand following PY6 of 6,500m3 per
year. Although there is presently no sawmill at Ngaoundere, no difficulty is
expected in marketing the 48,000mC volume of pine logs available for utility
lumber in PY25, considering that the current consumption of sawn lumber in the
Northern Province exceeds 50,000m3 per year. FNFP would market the planta-
tion wood through local contract cutters as it currently does on behalf of
Government. Stumpage fees are expected to continue to be above the average
levels required for full cost recovery with interest, estimated at CFAF
1700/m3 (US$6.30/m3) for pine and CFAF 1,200/m3 (US$4.44) for eucalypts
(para 7.06).
C. Financial Results
6.06      Government's financial flows for the plantations and the project
are estimated on the following basis:



- 28 -
(i) costs for project components have been estimated annually, including
price and physical contingencies, and taxes as in the project file,
with the addition of post-project recurring costs;
(ii) revenues include indirect taxes, income from the Ngaoundere and
SEMRY plantations estimated at current market prices (para
7.06), and income from the Edea Plantation estimated at minimum
stumpage fees consistent with full cost recovery plus a nominal rate
of return (para 6.03), all in current terms;
(iii)  debt service charges were estimated assuming that the CDC loan
would be made on the same terms as the Bank loan (para 5.04); and
(iv)  incremental revenues from improved forestry tax and royalties
assessment and collection generated by the strengthening of DEFC
were excluded from the calculations.
Under these assumptions, the financial results are as follows:
Project, Plus
Debt Service
Plantations 1/  Project 2/    Less Taxes
Year of lst positive annual return    PY7               PY7             PY14
Payback period (years to lst positive
cumulative cash flow)               15              15              16
Cumulative Investment (million)       US$28.1         US$34.0          US$30.0
1/ Three plantation components.
2/ Plantation, plus DEFC and FNFP.
Details of financial results are given in the project file. Although the
payback period for.Government investment is 16 years, this period would be
shortened as Government improves its collection of taxes and royalties
from the forestry sector. An annual increment in revenues of CFAF 1,000
million (US$3.7 million)--which would be attainable with improved administra-
tive procedures and collection of taxes and royalties on the known wood
harvest--would yield additional annual revenues for reforestation, (about
CFAF 500 million or US$1.9 million) sufficient to finance 7 of the 13 years in
which Government-s annual cash flow is negative.
6.07      The  financial rates of return on the project would be largely
determined by the stumpage fee to be negotiated between Government and Cellu-
cam for Edea Plantation wood. The table below indicates the rates of return
at various possible stumpage fees at Edea between US$12/m3, the approximate
fee that would assure Government cost recovery, and US$57/m3, the full
import parity price (para 7.05). Considering that the cost of harvesting and



- 29 -
transporting plantation wood to the mill is about US$13/m3 (para 6.03),
Government would be able to charge up to US$18/m3 stumpage and earn a
financial return of up to 9.8% on total investment, without raising Cellucam's
wood cost beyond the range usually faced by efficient pulp producers else-
where. Therefore prospects are good that a mutually satisfactory pricing
agreement can be made between Cellucam and Government.
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN 1/
----------------Financial Rate of Return-------------------
Project Plus
Edea Stumpage                                     Plantation    Debt Service
Fee       Edea      SEMRY     Ngaoundere    Components    Less Taxes
(US$/m3)     ------------------------…%…--------------------_________
12           5.2       18.0        18.1            8.1          7.1
18           7.9                                  10.0          9.8
24           9.9                                  11.3         11.8
30          11.5                                  12.5         13.2
48          14.9                                  15.3         17.2
57          16.1                                  16.6         18.4
1/   Net benefit streams were calculated on the same basis as for the
Government cash flow (para 6.06), but in 1981 terms.
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01      Readily quantifiable benefits would result from the 11,000 ha
project plantation program: (i) in the form of 19,000 m3 incremental
average annual production of wood in PY6-PY14, and 26,000 m3 in PY15-PY29
concentrated in the wood scarce Northern Province; and (ii) in the form of the
330,000 m3 annually cut in PY15-PY29 at Edea (para 6.01). This would
allow Cellucam to eventually convert to the exclusive use of uniform-quality
plantation grown woods which would reduce harvesting costs by about 33%,
decrease the cost of pulping by about 20%, and yield higher valued short and
long fiber pulp than is presently the case (para 1.11). These developments
would improve Cellucam's financial performance, which would also be beneficial
for Government as the principal shareholder. In addition, improved eucalypts
seed would be available from project supported seed gardens following PY6, and
improved pine seed following PYIO. This component would provide about half of
the seed required for future FNFP plantation programs. This is important
since the availability of good seed which is facing increased world-wide
demand could constrain future plantation programs.



- 30 -
7.02      The primary indirect benefit of the proposed project would be its
reinforcement of the two principal forestry sector institutions--FNFP and
DEFC. The project would establish the basis for improved longterm monitoring
and control of forestry exploitation, and economical and technically sound
regeneration programs. An immediate financial benefit would also result frorn
the strengthening of these institutions through improved collections of taxes
and royalties on one hand, and savings in more cost-effective reforestation
programs to be executed by project-trained staff of FNFP on the other.
Finally, the project would provide further experience with village-level
individual forestry which would hold one of the keys to reversing the continual
degradation of dry-zone forestry resources (para 3.09).
B. Economic Justification
(a) Economic Analysis and Rate of Return (ERR)
7.03      The economic analysis of the project is confined to the three pro-
ductive plantation components representing 81% of total project costs--Edea,
SEMRY and Ngaoundere--and the technical assistance to FNFP representing an
additional 7% of project costs. Although significant benefits to Government
would eventually accrue from the improved seed production unit, these are
similar in nature to long term research efforts whose benefits and costs are
not quantified for the economic analysis. In addition, the benefits accruing
to Government from the improvement in DEFC are financial, and are in the form
of transfer payments for which economic value is not imputed. Two analyses
are performed on the Edea Plantation: the first on the 8,800 ha project
plantation; and the second, on the 24,000 ha reforestation program which would
allow Cellucam to convert to plantation grown wood. Variation in the Edea
Plantation's ERR without Cellucam as the market is analysed in the project
risk section (para 7.11).
7.04      Costs and benefits have been estimated in constant 1981 terms.  All
costs have been taken net of taxes, and all non-labor costs have appropriate
physical contingencies included (para 5.02). The share of capital and non-
labor operating costs which represent non-traded goods and services have been
adjusted by a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.77 to bring them to border
prices comparable with traded goods and services.  Wages and salaries of the
skilled labor force working at the Edea Plantations who would be paid following
the Cameroonian industrial pay scales (SMIC), are also brought to border price
equivalents by multiplying by the SCF of 0.77. Unskilled seasonal labor
working at the Edea Plantations would also be paid at the lowest levels
permitted by the SMIC. However, for the economic analysis, labor is costed at
rates comparable to those paid for similar work under comparable conditions in.
agricultural plantation projects in the area. Skilled and unskilled seasonal
labor working at SEMRY and Ngaoundere are costed at the market wage rate net
of taxes, which currently reflects the scarcity value of peak-season labor.



- 31 -
7.05      The value of standing pine at the Edea Plantation has been estimated
based on the price of imported pine wood chips, delivered to the pulpmill, and
accounting for chipping, and logging costs of plantation wood per m3. The
resultant economie value of standing pine is US$57 per m3 in 1981 terms.
Following recent projections of the future world market situation, this price
is increased at 0.5% per year in real terms. The economic value of eucalypts
has been estimated directly as equal to the reduced cost of harvesting compared
to harvesting the natural hardwood forest, plus the savings in pulping costs
possible when using uniform plantation material (para 7.02). The resultant
economic value of standing eucalypts is estimated at US$12/m3.
7.06      The value of standing eucalypts at SEMRY is estimated at US$53.40/m3.
This is the weighted average value of building piles (50%) and fuelwood (50%),
derived by reducing market prices by estimated cutting and transport costs.
Considering that wood from SEMRY would be marketed locally, in essentially
unregulated markets, local-market monetary values are taken to be the economic
values of the wood. Wood eut by owners of plots in village wood-lots has also
been valued at this price. The value of standing eucalypts at the Ngaoundere
plantation is estimated to be US$44/m3 which is the weighted standing value
of fuelwood, building poles and transmission and telephone poles, derived from
market prices reduced for cutting and transportation costs. The value of
standing pine is estimated to be US$10/m3 in PY7 to PYIO, and US$15/m3
between PYll to PY20, as the weighted average prices of fuelwood, poles and
small sawlogs. When pines are clear cut as utility saw logs between PY25 and
PY29, they would be worth US$24.50/m3. Local markets for fuelwood, building
poles and saw logs are free of regulation so that local monetary values are
taken as the economic values of the wood. Transmission and telephone poles
would be sold to SONEL--the national electrical utility company--for use in
the Northern Province, at about US$77 each in 1981 terms. This price is taken
as a close approximation to an import parity value of wooden, treated poles,
which have recently been sold internationally at prices between US$174 and
US$264 each, deducting transportation costs of about 30% of value to establish
a CIF Douala price and transportion costs of 50% to establish a local prices
in Ngaoundere. Derivation of the economic prices is given in the project
file.
7.07      On the above assumptions, the economie rates of return of the
components in the project are as follows:
% of
Project   Estimated   Switching Values @12%
Component                           Cost        ERR %      Costs %    Benefits %
Edea Plantation (project)          70           13.9         20.9        -17.3
Edea Plantation (program)                       13.7         15.7        -13.6
SEMRY Plantation                    7           19.1         67.7        -40.4
Ngaoundere Plantation               4           19.0         88.1        -46.8
Project (3 plantations plus
FNFP Headquarters)               88           13.9         19.0        -16.0
The detailed cost and benefit streams used are given in the project file.



- 32 -
(b) Sensitivity
7.08      The rate of return to the project, overall, is only moderately
sensitive to changes in real costs and benefits. As indicated in para 7.07,
a general rise in real cost of 19% or a loss of real benefits of up to 16%
would be required to reduce the ERR to 12%--the estimated opportunity cost of
capital. Moreover, the two arid region plantations--SEMRY and Ngaoundere--
show considerable resiliency to changes in benefits and costs.  Of particular
importance are the following factors which could influence the ERR of the Edea
Plantation:
(a)  Real Price Increase for Pine:  In the event that the economic
value of pine did not  increase at the 0.5% per year as projected
(para 7.05) the ERR for the project would decline from 13.4% to
13.2%;
(b)  Lag in Plantation Program:  Delays in Cellucam s cutting of the
tropical high forest would slow the rate of plantation execution
which would delay the realization of project benefits. Although
many costs could be avoided in such a case, a lag of one year in
benefits relative to project costs is a realistic possibility.
Such an occurence however, would reduce the ERR from 13.4% to
13.0%; and
(c)  Yield Variation:  Yield estimates which are the basis for the
proposed project are consistent with early evidence from provenance
trials currently being conducted in the Edea area. Nonetheless
owing to variation in micro-ecological growing conditions, yield
variation may occur. A 10% reduction in yield, would reduce the EIR
to 13.0% and a yield reduction of 20% would result in an ERR of 12,2%.
C. Risks
7.09      No major or unusual technical risks threaten the success of the
proposed project. Normal risks of fire in the arid zone plantations, and
of pathogens, have been adequately dealt with in project design and provi-
sions have been made for resources to assure adequate protection.  The plant-
ing technologies proposed have been used in several West African countries
with success under similar arid and humid zone conditions. The less-tried
technique of establishing individual wood-lots (para 3.09) is viewed as a
pilot project, and the risks which may exist are socio-economic, not technical
risks.
7.10      Cellucam would be the primary market for plantation grown wood
financed by the project and a major participant in executing the project,
although Government would retain ownership of the wood to be grown and would
define principles of establishing adequate stumpage fees in the contract with
Cellucam (para 8.02b). An analysis of Cellucam-s projected cash flow



- 33 -
indicates that Cellucam would be able to pay stumpage fees allowing cost
recovery with interst when the wood is ready to cut. However, in the unlikely
event that Cellucam was not the market for the project plantation wood, the
pine and eucalypts would have markets as wood chips for export, sawlogs for
utility lumber, and transmission poles. On the assumption that 20% of the
pine was sold as utility lumber and 80% as wood chips for export, and that 5%
of the eucalypts were sold as building and transmission poles with 95% sold as
wood chips, Government could realize about US$12/m3 in 1981 terms for the
trees planted under the project. This would still be sufficient to allow full
cost recovery and a return of 2.5% on investment (para 6.03).
VIII. ASSURANCES AND CONDITIONS
8.01      During negotiations, Government agreed that:
(a) no works would be undertaken for any of the village woodlots before
a plan of action for carrying out such a program had been submitted
to and approved by the Bank (para 3.09);
(b) individuals with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank would be recruited following procedures discribed in the
"Guidelines for the use of consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" for the position of Program
Officer, Project Accountant and Supervising Plantations Manager, for
FNFP; and Director of Forestry, SEMRY (para 4.06);
(c) the Edea, SEMRY and Ngaoundere plantations would follow annual work
plans and budgets submitted for Bank approval by March 31 of the
year preceding the program, (paras 3.10, 4.03, 4.04);
(d) senior officers designated as responsible for the assessment and
monitoring of the collection of taxes and royalties in each of the
5 relevent previous would be in part throughout the project
(para 4.07);
(e) it would-make available to DEFC and FNFP sufficient resources
to execute the project, with funds passed on as grants to FNFP
who would maintain separate accounts for each project com-
ponent, and to DEFC; and it would replenish these accounts
throughout the year from the procedes of the Bank and CDC Loans, and
at the beginning of the fiscal year with its contribution following
approved budgets for the components (para 5.05); and
(f) it would take all necessary action to collect by December 31, 1982
all outstanding forestry taxes and royalties overdue as of July 31,
1980, and to assure that henceforth, all forestry taxes and royal-
ties would be properly assessed and collected within twelve months
after their respective assessment (para 1.13).



- 34 -
8.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a)  the fulfilment of all conditions precedent for the effectiveness
of the CDC loan (para 5.04);
(b) the signature of a contract between Cellucam and FNFP, acceptable to
the Bank specifying arrangements for the execution of the Edea
Plantation (para 4.02); and
(c) that Government establish separate projects accounts for each of the
plantation components and deposit in them CFAF 400 million (US$1.5
million) for Edea Plantations; CFAF 35 million (US$0.13 million) for
SEMRY; CFAF 25 million (US$0.09 million) for Ngaoundere; CFAF 12
million (US$0.04 million) for FNFP Headquarters; and CFAF 33 million
(US$0.12 million) for DEFC; which represents about 6 months operat-
ing costs for these components (para 5.05).
8.03      A Condition for disbursement against eligible costs of the SEMRY
component would be the signature of an agreement satisfactory to the Bank
between FNFP and SEMRY specifying the arrangements for executing the program
(para 4.04).
8.04      Under these conditions, this project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$17.0 million.



- 35 -
ANNEX
Table 1
CAMEROON - FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Years                                 Cumulative           % of Loan
and Semesters           Disbursements          Disbursements         Disbursed
FY 83
September 1982                0.2                     0.2                  1
December 1982                 0.4                     0.6                 4
March 1983                    0.4                     1.0                  6
June 1983                     0.5                     1.5                  9
FY 84
September 1983                0.7                    2.2                 13
December 1983                 0.7                     2.9                17
March 1984                    0.8                     3.7                 22
June 1984                     0.9                     4.6                27
FY 85
September 1984                0.9                    5.5                 32
December 1984                 0.9                     6.4                38
March 1985                     0.9                    7.3                 43
June 1985                     0.9                     8.2                48
FY 86
September 1985                0.9                     9.1                54
December 1985                 0.8                     9.9                58
March 1986                     0.8                   10.7                 63
June 1986                     0.8                    11.5                 68
FY 87
C           September 1986                 0.7                   12.2                 72
December 1986                 0.6                    12.8                 75
March 1987                     0.6                   13.4                 79
June 1987                      0.5                   13.9                 82
FY 88
September 1987                0.5                    14.4                85
December 1987                 0.5                    14.9                 88
March 1988                     0.5                   15.4                 91
June 1988                     0.5                    15.9                 94
FY 89
September 1988                0.3                    16.2                95
December 1988                 0.3                    16.5                 97
March 1989                     0.3                   16.8                 99
June 1989                     0.2                    17.0                100



CAMEROON - FORESTRY PROJECT                                                 Annex
Table 2
Illustrative Government Cash Flow  1/
(CFAF million)
Investments                               Project generated revenues             Project Surplus/        Project Financing              Covt. Net Cash Flow
Plantation       Other FNFP      DEFC        Sub       Plantation       Indirect    sub           (Financing                    Debt
Years        Components       Components   Component   Total        Components 2/   Taxes 3/   Total          Requirement)       Loans 4/  Service _/   Net        Annual      Cumulative
1982           1398              223          400        2021                        130           130         (1891)             243           76         168      (1,723)      (1,732)
1983           1050              156          126        1332                         90            90         (1242)             891           69         822        (420)      (2,152)
1984           1605              168           87        1860                        122           122         (1738)            1350          162       1,188        (550)      (2,702)
1985           1922              240          239        2401                        160           160          (2241)           1350          309       1,041      (1,200)      (3,902)
1986           1844               44          '00        1988                        130           130         (1858)            '.134         457       1,591        (267)      (4,169)'
1987            252                                       252                         21            21           (231)            810        1,169        (359)       (590)      4,759)
1988                                                                  238             i             39             39             6299       1,113        (492)       (453)      (5,212)
1989                                                                   389                         389            389             189        1,060        (871)       (482)      (5,694)
1990                                                                   452                        î452           452                         1,009      (1,009)       (557)      (6,251)
1991                                                                   532                         532            532                          957        (957)       (425)      (6,676)
1992                                                                   539                                                                     906        (906)       (367)      (7,043)
1993                                                                   145                         1.45          1 4                           855        (855)       (710)      (7,753)
1994                                                                   358                         358           358                           803        (803)       '445)      (8,198)
1995                                                                   815                         815           815                           752        (752)         63       (8,135) W
1996                                                                  6968                        6968          6968                           700        (700)      6,268       (1,867) O
1997                                                                  5389                        5389          5389                           649        (649)      4,740        2,873
1998                                                                  1810                        1810          1810                           598        (598)      1,212        4,085
1999                                                                  L356                        1356          1356                           546        (546)        810        4,895
2000                                                                  1591                        1591          1591                           495        (495)      1,096        5,991
2001                                                                  2011                        2011           2011                          443        (443)      1,568        7,559
2002                                                                  1924                        1924          1924                                                 1,924        9,483
2003                                                                  1930                        1930           1930                                              - 1,930       11,413
2004                                                                  6629                        6629          6629                                                 6,629       18,043
2005                                                                  4601                        4601          4601                                                 4,601       22,643
2006                                                                  2435                        2435          2435                                                 2,435       25,078
2007                                                                  1000                        100()         1000                                                 1,000       26,078
2008                                                                   862                         862            862                                                  862       26,940
2009                                                                   867                         867           867                                                   867       27,807
2010                                                                   873                         873           873                                                   873       28,680
1/  Costs inflated by appraisal report factors during project development period.  Thereafter at 6% for foreign costs and all revenues, and at 12% for local costs
during the investment period (upto 1995 after which plantation components show a cumulative surplus); and in constant 1995 terms from 1996 onwards.
2/  Project file shows the composition of these streams which are shown net.
3/  Idenitifiable indirect taxes on project expenditures; excludes possible tax revenue from forestry sector generated hy DEFC component.
4/  From Table 1 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements (Band loan).  CDC loan assumed to be disbursed paripassu with Bank loan.
5/  Prom ProSect File Debt Service.
21st April 1981.



- 37 -
CAMEROON
FORESTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents: Project File
Annex 1     Detailed Cost Tables, By Project Component
(a) General
(b) Edea Plantation
(c) Semry Plantation
(d) Ngaoundere Plantation
(e) Improved Seed Production Unit
(f)  Technical Assistance to FMP
(g) Support for DEFC
Annex 2     Financial and Economic Tables
(a) Cash Flows
(b) Cost and Benefit Streams
(c) Economic Prices
Annex 3     Technical Supporting Papers
(a) Seed Production Unit
!                            (b)  Land Clearing Methods
(c) Technical Specifications for Plantations
Annex 4      Terms of reference for short-term Consultants
Annex 5     Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Personnel



CAMEROON - FORESTRY PROJECT
EDEA PLANTATION
SILVICULTURE UNIT ORGANICRAM
Total
Director-Gcneral                                                                                            Personnel
Category                                                                                Cellucam
(a) Staff of Cellucam                                                          Director    'Director
|  Pulpmill  l      l    ~Forestry      | l Fnne                 |     |Amnsrto 
(b) Profesion .. 1
Foresters of Cellucam                        Director                     Director                Director              Director
Loggitig                     Silviculture           M  obile               Logistics
Expats |     hief          Chief                                                                                         Cef                                            2
GIOE       Nursery (x)                                         Plantations (x)                                          Planning                                        1
(c) Proiect Staff                                      S                      Site          f              District 2 |istrict 3 japigAdministration
(GIOC                                                                     1               1              1                                                                       3
- Supervisors  1/(G9                       1             1                     l                                                                 1            1              1                       6
-Foremen  2/         G8                    2            2                      3              3               3              3                   1            1                                     18
-Gangers   3/       G7                     2            Z                      6              6               6              6                   1            1              i                      31
- Clerical          G7                                                                                                                                                      8                        8
- Neadmen  4/       G6                                                         7              7               7              7                                                                      28
1/  Supervisors are Technicians in charge of a Section (or District in the case of the CTOC cadre)
2/  Foremen are in charge of Tasks (eg. in the nursery, mapping or surveying), or
in charge nf one nf the 3 "chantiers" in each of the 3 districts.
3/ & 4/ Cangers and Headmen are in charge of groups of about 10 workers, the difference being seniority to allow for promotion.
16th March 1981.
ns,



IBRO 15692
M                                                                                                 A L   IRf1
. ..-'     N I G  E R        /       C H A D                                                                                       LKE    CHAD
âs XAERO} _                                           N                                                  I G E R                I AA                               S'                               r
z                                             CENTRAL. 'AFR <s  !   C<i N<
E < t\J ! .>                                                           REPU   LI 
UIE EPBI FCAMEROOF  4|1  
~~~      ~        ~       ~  j       CONGO         Z  SUA    N  
NI ER A  ! 0 N
UNTDRPBI FCAMEROONN1
OrOE FORESTRY  PROJECTt
RD  GUINFA~~~~~NI
>D~CQT                    FR GABON  FRJC  LNAIN                                                                             j                 
RRLWRDEE EFAJECI RLASTATIcINFES                                              E~ '
,       FROFOyED FROJSCT SAS DFPODU.CTIO: OFARSSg,                                                               3           T            g                  
N       O RECTR1AA DES EAUX ET FORETS TEAEOAARTFS,
n  FTEP SAE.STATIONS                                                             -r .                                                              0 .  0 -O0rS
BOISR ASSISTED ACTAVIT ES AlTN FORESTRVjT  
A  OFDREOTFTOROSADH ISIRSTATIDSONS                                                                                                                  I *N'>    -
FAE ROADEO 5  l0000% 
IIOETR    I0 I0  FA SERDD 100                                                               .     N4 OCR 9        E RN
A        L
c-' ~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
~~~~~~_0009ET  Nm  
T H E R  N                                          
-E_UATORIAL
c/eV/   CEA N
EUTOR~ALGUINEA
<4CONTINFNTAL  ANA
| UILES D ZO *0 bo ED »D~~~~~ t                                                                                                                                                1   '  'r'i-       E 



