」


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2092 CH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,, dated               +             1983, between
OR
INTERNATIONAL BANK F    RECONSTRUC4ION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein--
after called the Bank) and OFFICE NATIONAL DE REGENERATION DES
FORETS (hereinafter called ONAREF),
WHEREAS- (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between United Republic of Cameroon (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
seventeen million dollars __('$17,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that ONAREF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank
as are hereinafter I At forth;
(B) part of,the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the
Loan Agreementwill be made available to ONAREF; and
WHEREAS ONAREF, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
.the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.'
ARTICLE It
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ONAREF shall carry out Parts A, C and D
and, jointly with SEMRY, Part B of the   Project, described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
economic, financial, engineering and forestry practices.


﻿-2-
(b)    ONAREF shall assist DEFC in maintaining the records*
and accounts for Part E of the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to carry out Part A of the Pro-
ject, ONAREF shall enter into a contract with CELLUCAM on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, providing for:
(i)  the execution of    Part A of    the  Project by
CELLUCAM on behalf and for the account of ONAREF
(including, inter alia, the arrangements for the
preparation of the annual work plans for said
Part of the Project referred to in Section 2.04
of this Agreement, the secondment of ONAREF field
supervisory staff to CELLUCAM and the review of
proposed staff appointments to the positions of
CELLUCAM's sous-directeur incharge of CELLUCAM's
sylviculture activities and of the nurseries chef
de service, plantations chef de service and
planning chef de service); and
(ii)  the ownership by the Borrower of the trees to be
planted under Part A of the Project and the sale
of mature trees to CELLUCAM against payment of a
stumpage fee which shall be at least sufficient
to recover the investment costs for planting the
trees and maintaining them to maturity, including
interest thereon.
(b)    ONAREF shall duly jzform all its obligations under
the CELLUCAM contract and shall exercise its rights thereunder in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; to this end,
ONAREF shall in particular ensure that the key staff of
CELLUCAM's sylviculture*department listed in paragraph (a) (i) of
this Section shall have qualifications and experience satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(c)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ONAREF shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, terminating, assigning or waiving the CELLUCAM Contract
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to carry out, jointly with SEMRY,
Part B of the Project, ONAREF shall enter into an agreement with
SEMRY on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, regarding
the arrangements for the execution and subsequent operation of
said Part of the Project, including, inter alia:


﻿-3-
(i)   the preparation of the annual work plans for Part B of
the Project referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agree-
ment;
(ii)   the plan of action referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section;
(iii)   the secondment of ONAREF staff and the employment of
the specialist referred to in Section 2.05 (d) of this
Agreement for SEMRY's forestry division; and
(iv)    the recovery of the investment costs (including main-
tenance to maturity, and interest thereon) of the tree
plantings under Part B (i) of the Project through the
payment of a stumpage fee at least sufficient to cover
such costs.
(b)   ONAREF shall ensure that no works are undertaken for
any of the village wood lots to be established under Part B (ii)
of the Project, until a plan of action for the carrying out of
such Part of the Project shall have been submitted to, and
approved by, the Bank.
(c)    ONAREF shall duly perform all its obligations under
the SEHRY Agreement and shall exercise its rights thereunder in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ONAREF shall not take or concur in
any action which uould have the effect of amending, terminating,
assigning or waiving the SEMRY Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.04. ONAREF shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, Parts A through D of the Project in accordance with annual
work plans and budgets satisfactory to the Bank. For this pur-
pose, ONAREF shall, not later than March 31 of each year, furnish
to the Bank for each review and concurrence the proposed work
plan and budget in respect of each of said Parts of the Project
for the twelve-month period starting on January 1 of the ensuing
year.
Section 2.05. In order to assist ONAREF in carrying out its
obligations under this Agreement, ONAREF shall employ, in accord-
ance with the principles and procedures described in the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981, the following specialists and consultants whose


﻿selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank:
(a)  a forestry engineer, as ONAREF reforestation program
officer;
L
*   (b) a Project accountant;
(c)  a forestry engineer, as ONAREF supervising plantation
manager;
(d) a forestry engineer specialized in arid zone reforesta-
tion, as head of SEMRY's forestry division; and
(e) consultants to assist in carrying out Parts B (ii) and
(iv) and D (ii) and (iii) of the Project.
Section 2.06. ONAREF shall select ONAREF staff whose quali-
fications and proposed training programs are satisfactory to the
. Bank for training abroad under Part D (ii) (c) of the Project.
Section 2.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) ONAREF undertakes to insure, or make
adequate.provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of tLe proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by ONAREF to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, ONAREF shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) ONAREF shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for Parts A
through D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿-5-
(b) ONAREF: (i)    shall maintain records and    procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A through D
of the Project (including their cost and the benefits to be
derived from them) to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated thereto, and to
disclose their use in said Parts of the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in said Parts of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, quarterly progress reports on the
execution of Parts A through D of the Project.
(c) Upon the award by ONAREF of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) ONAREF shall assist the Borrower in the preparation of
the report referred to in Section 3.08 (d) of the Loan Agreement,
with respect to Parts A through D of the Project.
(e) ONAREF shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of ONAREF and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.10. (a) ONAREF shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
the CELLUCAM Contract and the SEMRY Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) ONAREF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by ONAREF of its obligations under this
Agreement, the CELLUCAM Contract or the SEMRY Agreement.


﻿- 6
ARTICLE III
Knagement and Operations of ONAREF
Section 3.01. (a) ONAREF shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, plan the future development of
its activities and maintain its financial position in accordance
with appropriate economic, financial, forestry and administrative
practices, and under an experienced and qualified management
assisted by an adequate number of competent staff.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, ONAREF shall:
(i) operate and maintain its equipment, properties and
facilities, and make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate
technical, forestry and management practices;
(ii) until completion of the Project, provide in its
budget each year an amount of at least CFAF 40
million for the operating expenditures of its
ongoing tree planting program in the Ngaoundfr&
area; and
(iii) take or cause to be taken all action necessary
to ensure that, after completion of the Project,
the trees planted under Parts A, B and C thereof
are  adequately   protected  and   maintained  to
maturity.
Section 3.02. ONAREF shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, ONAREF
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property and assets except in the ordinary course of
business.
8
Section 3.04. ONAREF shall at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain its legal existence and right to carry on
its operations, including the Parts of the Project for which it
is responsible, and to acquire and to retain such properties, and
to  acquire,   maintain  and  renew  such   licenses,  consents,


﻿-7-
franchises or other rights, as may be necessary or useful for the
execution and operation of said Parts of the Project and the con-
duct of its activities.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ONAREF shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including detailed separate accounts for Parts A, B, C and D of
the Project and a consolidated summary account to record all
Project expenditures (the Project Accounts).
(b) As part of the Project Accounts, ONAREF shall retain,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures for Parts A through D of the Project on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditure, and shall, enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to inspect such records.
Section 4.02. ONAREF shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements, including the Project Accounts)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements, including a statement of the Project Accounts, for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement and paragraph (b) (i) of Section 3.08 of the Loan
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of ONAREF and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of ONAREF thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly so notify ONAREF thereof.
Section .5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted. to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
e
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿~1
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of        198 &.
FOR SECRETARY


