~~~~~~~~C-s6
(leEpIr                              CIRCUL ATIG AtM     TO
<3 7-.6T E FTO BE RETURNED tz                       4ESK
93                                    W~~~~~~~ItHIN
ONE WEEK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use            FILE  COPY
Report No. 2IOa-UAR
APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A POPULATION PROJECT          RETURN  TO
REPORTS DESK
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT              WITHIN
ONE WEEK
September 28, 1973
Population and Nutrition Projects Department
This report was prepated for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsbility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 U.S. Dollar          -        L.E.  .392
1 Egyptian Pound (L.E.)-        US$ 2.55
1,000 L.E.             3        US$ 2,550
1,000,000 L.E.         =        US$ 2,550,00O
1 m                           1.20 square yard
3          10.76 square feet
1 km2                         0.38 square miles
1 hectare         -           2.47 acres
The Egyptian Fiscal Year ends December 31.
ABBREVIATIONS
APC    -  Assistant Project Coordinator
ASFR   3  Age Specific Fertility Rate
CBR        Crude Birth Rate
CDR    -   Crude Death Rate
CPM        Critical Path Method
EFPA      IEgyptian Family Planning Association
RO   =  Eastern Mediterranian Regional Office (WHO)
FP     =   Family Planning
GDP    =   Gross Dcmestic Product
GHC    =  General Health Center
GRR    =   Gross Reproduction Rate
IH3'   =  Integrated Health Services
IMR    -  Infant Mortality Rate
IPPF       T International Planned Parenthood Association
IUD    -   Intra-Uterine Device
KAP    =  Knowledge of, Attitude Toward, and Practice of Family Plinning
MNCH    =  Maternal and Child Health
MOH        Ministry of Health
NFPB       National Family Planning Board
NRR    =  Net Reproduction Rate
PC         Project Coordinator
PCC    -   Project Coordinating Committee
TTR        Total Fertility Rate
UN     =  United Nations
UNFPA  -  United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNESCO = United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Orgaidsation
UNICEF =  United Nations Children's Fund
WHO    =  World Health Organization



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT:  BASIC DATA
General                                           1960        1966        1972
Area  . . . . . . .       . . . .  . . . . . . .   .      1,002,000 Ka2
Population - midyear (in millions). . . . . . . . . 25.8      30.1        35.0 1/
Density per km2.. . . . . . 25                                30          35
Density per km2 of inhabitable and cultivable land  725       843         983
Proportion Urban (percent). . . . . . . . . . . . . 37.8      41.2        42.1 (1970)
Demographic                                        1960                   1970*
Crude Birth Rate (per thousand) . . . . . . . . . . 43.1                  35.6 .
Crude Death Rate (per thousand) . . . . . . . . . . 16.9                  15.0  /
Rate of Natural Increase (percent). . . . . . . . . 2.6                    2.1Z/
Infant Mortality per 1,000 live births. . . . . . . 109                   119
Population under 15 years of age (percent). . . . . 42.8                  40.3
Medium age at marriage. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.8                  .9.7 (1966)
Dependency Ratio. ..87                                                      .86
Females aged 15 -  (in millions).5.3                                       7.1 I/
Social
Literacy Rate (percent adult population). . . . . .                       40 (1971)
School Enrollement Ratios (percent of eligible
population). . . . . . .
First level (ages 6 - 11). . . 66                     70
Second level (ages 12 - 17). . 16                     30
Population per physician. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    2,025
Population per hospital bed . . . . . . . . . . . .                      470
Economic
Labor Force (in millions) . . . . . . . . . . . .                          9.1
Unemployment Rate (percent of Labor Force). . . . .                        8.0
Proportion of Employed Labor in Agriculture
(percent)  . . 58                     49 (1969/70)
GNP at Current Market Prices (in millions) US$. . .                    6,970 (1970/7i)
Growth Rate of GNP. . . . . . . . . . . .          2.9 (1965-70)     '     3.4(1971)
Family Planning                                               1966       129
pill Cycles distributed  .1,736,0C0  4,05320CC
New Acceptors (all methods). . . . . . . . . . . .          174,000   2o6o00C
IUD's inserted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           24,000    57,9000
New Acceptors (oral contraceptives only). . . . . .         150,000   115,000
*  Or most recent year available.
1/ Estimated.
2/ Provisional






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: APPRAISAL OF A POPUbITION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ....................      ....................... i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION  .. ...........................................              1
II.   THE FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM ...... .................                      3
-  History and General Organization .....    ....................         3
-  Contraceptive Methods ..........................................       4
-    Post-Partum   Program   ...........................................  4
-  Incentives and Targets ..........................................    5
-  Program Achievements ........    ....................................    5
-  The Service Delivery Network ......    .......................         6
- Manpower ...                               .....9
-  Training .....................g* ..................................   10
-  Family Planning in the Reorganization ...        ........................  11
-  Costs and Financing of the Family Planning Program        .    .      12
- External Assistance ...            ..........................................  12
III.   THE PROJIECT .........................................................   1
-  General Health Centers .........      .................................  15
-  Polyclinics ......................................................   15
-  Nursing Teacher-Training Centers ........       ........................  16
-  Demonstration Training Centers ........ .........................   16
-  Vehicles ..........................................   17
-  Evaluatoin Studies  ..........................................    17
- Experimental Home-Visiting Program ..........     ....................  18
-  Production of Health Education Materials .9.......................   1
-  Study to Improve Maintenance of Health Facilities ....      ...........  19
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION, COSTS, PROPOSED FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS ........  20
- Implementation                  ..                                     20
- Costs         ...................                                      21
-  Proposed Financing           ..                   .................  22
- Disbursements .....        ......... ...........................   23
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ..............................................  23
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........      .....................   24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
The Arab Republic of Egypt from November 25 to December 15, 1972 and subsequent
visits in February and June 1973. The appraisal mission consisted of Messrs.
G.B. Baldwin (Chief of Mission), F.J.C.M. Rath (Deputy Chief of Mission), J.R.
Burfield and I.H. Kang from the Association as well as Miss M.L. Verderese (WHO)
and Dr. C.A. Miller as consultants. The appraisal mission was followed by visits
to Egypt of Mr. J.R. Burfield and Messrs. W. Metcalf and A. Law as consultants
from February 17 to March 10 and by Messrs. Baldwin and Rath from June 1 - 3,
1973. This report was prepared by Messrs. Baldwin and Rath on the basis of
contributions by mission members and with the cooperation of Mr. Burfield in
particular sections.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.    Population and Cropped Areas, Census years from 1897 - 1966
2.    Changes in Fertility, 1955 - 1967
3.    The Probable Size and Age Structure of the Egyptian Population 1970 - 2015
4.    Number of Population per Selected Health Facilities, 1970
5.    Medical and Paramedical Manpower Available, 1969 - 1970
6.    The Reorganization of Nurse Training
7.    Levels, Number and Output of Institutes and Schools of Nursing, 1972
8.    Indicators of Family Planning Program
9.    Increase of Family Planning Acceptors by Method, June 1970 - July 1972
10.   Distribution of Oral Contraceptive Acceptors by Area, July 1972
11.   Distribution of IUD Acceptors by Governorate, July 1972
12.   Types of Polyclinics and Specialities Represented
13.   Internal Organization of the NFPB
14.   The NFPB's Budget FY 1971 and FY 1972
15.   Sector Review of the National Family Planning Program:  Summary and Conclusion!s
16.   Type, Number and Location of Physical Facilities
17.  Detailed Cost Estimates of Physical Facilities
18.   Project Implementation
19.   Schedule of Implementation and Quarterly Expenditure
20.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule



-3-
CHARTS
7902     New Scheme for Nursing Education
7903(R)  Distribution of Oral Contraceptives and IUD Insertions,
1966 - 1972
6752(R) The Probable Range of Egypt's Population over the Next Two
Generations
MAPS
10614    Arab Republic of Egypt:  Population Density by Governorate
(Census of 1966)
1o615    Arab Republic of Egypt:  Pilot Project Areas






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: APPRAISAL REPORT OF A POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a population project in the Arab Republic
of Egypt for which an IDA Credit of US$5.0 million is proposed. During
preparation and appraisal of this project due attention has been given
to the present and prospective assistance over the next two to three years
from other international donors; these include the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities, the Ford Foundation, the Population Council, the
International Planned Parenthood Federation, and some earlier unspent aid
from Denmark.
ii.       Egypt's population stands at this moment at about 35 million and
is increasing at an estimated rate of 2.5% per annum. Unlike most develop-
ing countries, the country faces a double population problem: (a) too
rapid demographic growth, which absorbs the greater part of social and
economic development benefits and (b) a rapidly increasing population
density, which at over 950 per sq. km. of habitable land is one of the
highest in the world. The Government recognized these problems and
created a Supreme Council for Family Planning by presidential decree of
November 13, 1965 under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister. The
Minister of Health is vice-chairman and family planning services are offer-
ed mainly through the facilities of the Ministry of Health. Although an
estimated 13 to 14% of married women of eligible age are presently estimated
to be users of contraceptives, a much stronger effort has to be made to curb
the growth of population which -- if present trends continue -- will
double by the year 2000. The proposed project attempts to strengthen the
national effort so that present demographic trends will not continue; the
hope is that fertility can be reduced so that by the end of the century
total population will be around 62 million, the lowest figure now believed
attainable.
iii.      A strengthened commitment to family planning by the Government
coincides with a recent decision to intensify the health delivery system
for which the health services will undergo some reorganization. The new
system is introduced in four pilot areas; project construction will be
limited to new health facilities needed in these pilot areas.
iv.       The IDA project to be implemented by the Ministry of Health will
consist of:
a.  Construction, equipment and furniture for 22 general
health centers. These centers will provide basic
integrated preventive and curative health services,
including maternal and child health and family plan-
ning. Of these, 15 will be located in the metro-
politan area of Cairo (Cairo and Qalubiya Governorates),
six in the Governorate of Qena and one in the Damietta
Governorate;



- ii -
b.  Construction, equipment and furniture for 12 poly-
clinics; under the Integrated Health System (TIHS)
the polyclinics will mean a necessary step in the
new single entry referral system; they will ease the
burden on the hospitals, provide an important contri-
bution to additional training of practicing doctors
in the general health centers and establish a more
efficient system of supervision of the medical and
paramedical staff of general health centers attached
to these polyclinics. Eight polyclinics will be
located in Qena Governorate, three in the Governorate
of Damietta and one in Qalubiya;
c.  Construction, equipment and furniture for three nurse-
teacher training centers, to provide training for
prospective teachers for nursing schools and nurse
supervisors. One center each will be attached to the
medical schools of the Universities of Cairo, Tanta,
and Assiut;
d.  Construction, equipment and furniture for three
demonstration training centers to provide inservice
training in family planning and environmental health
for medical and paramedical personnel involved in
the national program. They will be located in
Shubrael Khema (Qalubiya Governorate), Qena, and
Damietta;
e.  The provision of 150 multi-purpose vehicles to improve
the mobility of family planning services in the rural
areas and provide transport for the training centers;
f.  Three evaluation studies on family planning acceptance;
g. An experimental home-visiting program for family
planning motivation;
h.  The production of health education materials useful
for family planning information and motivation; and
i.  A study designed to produce recommendations as to how
health facilities can be better maintained.
v.        The total project cost is estimated at US$10.5 million equi-
va.Lenrt.  The IDA credit would be US$5.0 million, representing the foreign
exchange comlponent of the project; the Government contribution would be
Us$5.5 million equivalent.



- iii-
vi.       Overall project responsibility will be that of a Project
Coordinating Committee (PCC)) headed by a Project Coordinator (PC), who
is expected to be a senior officer of the Ministry of Health reporting
directly to the Minister.  The PCC will have an Assistant Project
Coordinator (APC) for construction and an Assistant Project Coordinator
for program activities.  The establishment of the PCC and the appoint-
ment of the PC and two APGs will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
vii.      Except for contracts for civil works and ffurniture estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or less and except for contracts for
the production of health education material or for the procurement of
equipment related thereto, all contracts for civil works and for the
acquisition of furniture and equipment, vehicles and parts will be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance witrh Bank/
IDA guidelines. IDA would be expected to finance only some US$50,000 worth
of health education materials and related equipment. Domestic manufacturers
of vehicles, furniture and equipment will be accorded a margin of preference
equal to 15% of the CIF costs of competing imports or the prevaiLling rate of
customs duty, whichever is lower. To the extent appropriate, procurement
will be based on bid "packages" prepared in such a way as to encourage bidding
from both foreign and domestic firms and in consultation with the architec-
tural consultants and the Association.
viii.     The project's principal direct contribution to the population
program is that it will introduce in four pilot areas some high priority
activities designed to explore alternative means of improving the program's
ability to recruit and hold significantly larger numbers of acceptors. The
project will also contribute to the expansion of health manpower involved
in family planning activities by making available extra training facilities.
The construction of physical facilities is expected to have indirectly a
positive influence in family planning acceptance through the improvement
and expansion of health care delivery. It is expected that the implement-
ation of this project will create a mutually satisfactory longer-run
relationship between the Government and the Bank Group which may lead to
a second more comprehensive project.
ix.       Subject to the conditions in paras 6.01 and 6.02 the project
is suitable for a credit of US$5.0 million equivalent to the Government
of the Arab Republic of Egypt for a term of 50 years, including a ten-
year grace period.






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: APPRAISAL REPORT OF A POPULATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Egypt has a population problem of obvious and pressing dimensions.
Finding ways to limit population growth is likely to become and to remain
one of the most urgent priorities of government policy and administration
for the foreseeable future. The Government is already well aware of the
seriousness of its demographic situailon and for the past seven years there
has been an official, nationwide family planning program. Although this
program has achieved some success, a much stronger effort will be required
in the years and decades ahead if the country's population problems are to
remain manageable. The project described and appraised in this report is
intended to strengthen the Government's ability to achieve a substantial,
lasting reduction of Egyptian fertility. Although most of the project funds
will be spent on buildings and vehicles, the most important feature of the
project and its principal justification is the launching of a small number of
innovative activities which hold out some hope of demonstrating ho;T the number
of continuing acceptors, which has not been growing vigorously, can be sub-
stantially increased.
1.02     The essential demographic facts are simple and stark.  Egypt has a
severely limited habitable area which even the Aswan Dam was unable to expand
by more than 10-15%. Inhabited Egypt is one of the two or three most densely
populated countries in the world, with 950 persons per sq km in the liveable
areas (substantially more than double the density of the Netherlands, the most
densely settled country in Europe). The amount of cultivated area per capita
has been falling since 1900, at least, when it was twice what it is now. This
long-term decline is continuing. Although increases in agricultural productivity
have so far been sufficient to offset the decline in the cropped area per capita,
gains in agricultural output per capita have been modest and their continuation
is uncertain.
1.03     Population density has doubled twice during the last century.  Since
the end cf World War II the population growth rate has increased about 50%.
In the decade preceding World War II, population growth was about 1.6-1.7%;
at present it is about 2.5%. Although there is some evidence that the total
fertility rate has decreased in the last few years, this phenomenon is too
short-lived and weak to be anything more than an encouraging sign. Egypt has
a high infant mortality rate (115-120 per thousand); this means that future
declines in fertility are likely to be offset to some degree by declines in
mortality, especially infant mortality. This adds urgency to achieving early
and strong reductions in fertility.
1.04     No one knows how much of the recent modest drops in fertility should
be credited to growing urbanization, slowly-rising incomes, the rapidly sprea-
ing education of both boys and girls, or to the seven-year-old national family
planning program. Egypt remains a primarily agricultural country, with over
50% of the labor force being peasant farmers. Nevertheless, as almost every-
where, the urban pcpulation is growing more rapidly than the rural, with Cairo
showing a recent growth rate of 4.5-5% p.a. and Alexandria probably about the
same. Since the decline in urban fertility appears greater than that of rural



-2-
areas, it is tempting to concLude that the relatively modest rate of
aroanization. now going on is contributing to lowering fertility.  However,
the cities are also the places where the most effective family planning work
is being conducted and it is impossible to say what urban fertility would be
without the family planning program or what more the latter might accomplish
if the program were strengthened. So far as education is concerned, the
country remains over 60% illiterate, although rapid progress has been made in
reducing this figure since the Revolution of 1952.  Since that time the
proportion of school-age children attending school has doubled.  These gai4ns
have been shared by both girls and boys, although the gains among girls have
been much more dramatic, at all levels of the educational system; this trerno
in female educatiorL reflects a slowly accelerating change in the subordinate
position of women in many areas of Egyptian life.
1L.05f    Egypt has had a Government-sponsored family planrnng program for
seven years. Many things about the program and the environment within
whtich it operates are god.  There is widespread awareness of the country's
population problems.  Cultural and religious attitudes towards family planning
are generally favorable. The Government genuinely wants to give the program
strong support, although it has difficulty in knowing how to do so. The net-
work of Government health services and private pharmacies is far more extensive
than that found in many low-income countries.  The supply of medical and para-
medical manpower is good. A high-density population lives in a compressed
habitable area, greatly easing problems of servi-ce delivery and supervision.
As a result of these favorable factors, the pill-oriented program has succeeded,
in bringing contraceptive protection to some 13-14% of the married population
in the fertile age years (see Annex 8).  This level of acceptance is the same
or above that of Ceylon, Tunisia, Malaysia, Pakistan, Thailand, and !ran; it
is more than double the figure for Turkey and triple that for Morocco; it is
far below the user rates achieved in Taiwan, Korea, and Singapore (which range
from 30-45% of all eligible couples).
1.      I' The results achieved to date reflect the distribution ol contraceptive
services through the Government's 3,000 clinics (this ineludes about 500 semai-
private clinics run by the Egyptian Family Planning Association, a volunuary
association which is subsidized and supervised by Governmernt) and thro-ugh the
2,000 private pharmacies. When these complementary programs and networks are
looked at independently, many weaknesses appear. These weaknesses represent
opportunities for improvements which, if successfully introduced over the
next few years, could help trarnsform the Egyptian family planning program
irto a far more effective listrument of national fertility control.
1.07     The Lmportance of expanding the family planning program (to reach
much larger numbers of acceptors) becomes clearer if one understands the
growth in the number of married women in the fertile age years. If we use
f- fig Jre of around L.2 million married women irn 1966 and arbitrarily assume
i;h.a    :7-roup is growing at 2% p.a., then each year something like 85,000-
90,00 ~more -xcen are eligible to have babies. In order to have held the
total nmfber of births constant during 1966-71, the equivalent of 85,000-
9'0;000o ad,-iticnal new acceptors would have had to be recruited each year; this
m7leans about i+50,o00 new acceptors (after allowing for dropouts) over the five-
year pariod. It seems ver-y unlikely that the Government program has achieved



-3-
half this figure and contraceptive sales through pharmacies have not
risen enough to influence the overall result significantly.  Although
the (iata are weak, it is almost certain that the absolute number of
married couples not practicing contraception is increasing. This means
that the number of births is still increasing each year even though the
fertility rate may now be falling.
II.  THE FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM
History and General Organization
2.01      Egypt began its official family planning program early in 1966.
Private or voluntary agencies had been active in the larger urban areas
for several years before then, but the scale of their activities had
little or no demographic impact. Serious government interest in the
countryts demographic problem dates from 1962 when President Nasser pro-
posed a National Charter that referred explicitly to family planning.
Three years later the Government established a Supreme Council for Family
Planning, headed by the Prime Minister and including eight ministers, the
Director of the General Mobilization and Statistical Agency, and the
Chairman of the National Family Planning Board (NFPB), the latter being
the Supreme Council's secretariat and implementing agency. Thus the
basic organizational structure for family planning consists of a relative-
ly independent agency responsible to an inter-ministerial committee,
responsible for program planning and evaluation but dependent on the
regular ministries for carrying out the program. In 1973, changes were
introduced which gave somewhat stronger roles to the Supreme Council,
which in earlier years had almost never met, and to the Ministry of
Health (MOH) which was clearly designated as the Ministry to which the
NFPB is generally responsible.
2.02      In each region there is an Advisory Committee headed by the
Governor and including the chief representatives of all ministries con-
cerned with population (e.g. Health, Social Affairs, Information and
Communications, Wakfs /religious trusteeshiP7, and Education). The Com-
mittees are suppose to help Regional Directors take up activities which
the Committees believe are needed in the province and to secure coopera-
tion among the agencies involved in such activities. The Committee meets
every month; members are paid an attendance fee. In practice, the
interest and personality of the Governor determines the effectiveness of
the Committeets work.
2.03      There are two additional channels through which information
and contraceptive supplies are distributed and which are important parts
of the total delivery system. One of these supplementary arms is the
network of clinics which are operated by the voluntary societies and
which are subsidized and regulated by the Ministry of Social Affairs.
These "private" clinics still account for about 25% of all non-pharmacy



-J4-
acceptors and are thus an important element in the total program. In
practice most of the private clinics are open only in the afternoons and
evenings when the MOH clinics are closed; they are normally staffed with
doctors whose regular jobs are with the MOH. In practice the voluntary
associations are so dependent upon government funds and medical person-
nel that they may almost be regarded as a second government program.
Nevertheless, the influence of a number of energetic and imaginative
women in these societies is still great and they do have considerably
more flexibility than the MOH clinics. The second supplemental arm is
the network of some 2,000 pharmacies. These are important sales outlets
for pills and condoms and are estimated to account for about 25% of total
family planning practitioners. There is believed to be considerable room
for expanding the use of not only pharmacies but other forms of retail
outlets.
Contraceptive Methods
2.04      The pill has been the principal means of fertility-control
used in the Egyptian program. These are used by an estimated 70% of all
new acceptors. Pills are manufactured locally under foreign license,
using imported raw materials, and are sold under the licensors' inter-
national commercial labels. (The licensing firms are represented in
Cairo and have a keen interest in the growth of sales.) The program
does not rely exclusively on the pill, however. The IUD has been used
since almost the start of the program, as have condoms, foams, and
jellies (the last three methods have played a very minor role so far).
When the IUD was first introduced in the late 1960s it was hoped that
it might become more widely accepted than it has in fact become. But
insufficient emphasis on the proper training of inserters (presently
only doctors) and inability to deal effectively with user complaints
limited the spread of the device. A few doctors, however, had had great
success with the loop; this has encouraged the NFPB to make a renewed
effort to expand use of the IUD, which is recognized to have advantages
over the pill if widespread user-acceptance can be achieved. Sterili-
zations are used very little since there is general religious and
cultural disapproval. Some hospitals do indeed perform tubal ligations
on women for whom further pregnancies would be dangerous, but the
operation is not available on request. Male sterilizations are legal
but are not used. Illegal abortion is fairly common (no estimates are
available) and many complications lead to hospitalization. Officially
and culturally, abortion is treated as a medical problem, not as a means
of individual or social fertility control.
Post-Partum Program
2.05      Egyptian women have a strong preference for delivering their
babies at home and about 95% of all babies are home-delivered. Most of
the rural deliveries, and a substantial proportion of the urban, are
attended not by a formally trained doctor or midwife but by a traditional
birth attendant, the daya. While the MOH would like to upgrade the



standards surrounding delivery, it will be difficult to attract more
women into hospitals or MCH centers with beds until their fear of
hospitalsand their attachment to dayas can be overcome.  The low pro-
portion of hospital deliveries means that there are relatively few oppor-
tunities for educating women through post-partum programs (even in the
few urban hospitals which do have many maternity cases, post-partum pro-
grams have been sporadic and weak. A new attempt to develop a post-partum
program will shortly be made, based on the general hospital at Damanhour
in Beheira Governorate, using technical assistance from the Population
Council. This pilot project will start in late 1973; it will be financed
with UNFPA assistance.)
Incentives and Targets
2.06      An important but controversial part of the administrative
system is the payment of cash incentives to clinic staff members (very
limited use has been made of incentives for acceptors). The system has
been in effect since the start of the program in 1966; it applies to
staff members in both private and government units. Revenues generated
by the sale of contraceptive supplies to patients provide the sole
source of finance for incentive payments (except for IUDs, where doctors
are paid a fee but patients are not charged). The size of these incen-
tives adds about 5-10% to most staff members' monthly salary.
Unfortunately, almost no one is satisfied with the system. From an
administrative point of view, the incentive system appears to exert
little if any incentive effect. Incentive payments have come to be
accepted as part of normal remuneration and have little effect on moti-
vating staff to recruit new acceptors or to keep up continuation rates.
There is some suspicion that some pill sales are forced on visitors to
clinics as the price of receiving attention for ailments that have no-
thing to do with family planning (there is no way of telling how wide-
spread this abuse may be, but it does throw doubt on the accuracy of the
program's service statistics). It seems generally agreed that carefully
set recruitment targets would have a more useful incentive effect than
the present system of cash incentives.
Program Achievements
2.07      It was noted in paragraph 1.05 that by mid-1972 the Egyptian
program had achieved a participation rate of 13-14% of the eligible
population (married women 15-44). Comparison with other countries shows
that this is a middle-range figure, a respectable but not outstanding
level of achievement. The picture is less encouraging if one looks at
increases in acceptors over time. In 1966, the first year of the program,
pill users registered with Government clinics rang about 160,000-170,000
per month; six years later, in mid-1972, the figure was running about
430,000 per month, something more than double the earlier figure. This
growth is modest if not disappointing. Similarly, the number of IUD
insertions was highest in the first eight months of the program (September



6
Jo6 to April 1567); in late 1971 the monthly rate was running 4,000 to
4,500 as compared with 5,000 to 6,000 in the earlier period.  Sales of
otiier contraceptives are too small to affect the general impression that
e number of new acceptors recruited in the past year or two has been
disappointing; there is some evidence of an upturn during 1971 (see
Chart 3).
The service Delivery Network
2.08      Health Facilities:  Egypt has a well-developed network of
health facilities and a relatively good supply of health manpower to
staff them. The MOH network consists of university and general hospitals,
a number of district or "markaz" hospitals in each Governorate, maternal
and child health (MCH) centers and health offices and health bureaus in
cities and towns, and naral health centers and satellite rural health
units in the countryside. To this network must be added the (much smaller)
number of service units operated by voluntary societies with the help of
and supervision from the Ministry of Social Affairs. Although the health
service network has been expanded significantly in recent years, it is
not yet considered complete, either in cities and towns or in the rural
areas.
2.09      The number of rural health units rapidly increased after the
Revolution from 289 in 1952 to 1,836 in 1971. Their emphasis initially
focused on social and educational aspects of health maintenance. The
emphasis was reflected in their administrative placement under the
Ministry of Wakfs. This placement changed many times during the next
two decades to include at one time or another the Ministry of Social
Affairs, Ministry of Education, and most recently (since 1966) the
Ministry of Health. An effort was made at the national level to inte-
grate all services from all appropriate ministries through the coordi-
,lazing work of a Council of Services on whlich served the key ministers
,2f public service.  Counterpart councils worked at the local level to
-I;tgratc all cQIuiilty services, including health, education, and social
iairs.  mh  integratLve emphas's found tangible expression in the com-
s-.ned unit which brought into one facility or compound all of the
g'overnment sponsored community services.
2. o      Tn 1972 the MOH developed a new concept of Integrated Health
3ervices (TIS' which has an important bearing on the content of the IDA
._r o Ject.  The: iain objectives are:
a.  to establish a refierral gradient of patients from
primary care centers to specialized ambulatory centers,
and thence t,o hospitals as necessary, providing a
single-entry system of medical services and relieving
l i,tals of the burden of offering primary hedical
care for which they are poorly suited;



b.  to integrate preventive and curative services, in
order to eradicate and control epidemic, endemic
and communicable diseases;
c.  to place greater emphasis on family planning services
as an essential component of maternal and child
health and general services; and
d. to resolve problems of staffing in the rural health
units.
2.11      Many details and local variations on the plan are still being
worked out, but essentially it provides for a pyramid of services with
three levels of care:
a.  General health centers are at the base and all
patients enter the system at this point. Every
person is given a health card. Former rural
I-alth units, rural health centers and urban
health centers are being renamed as general
health centers.
b.  Polyclinics are a new facility designed to take
over much of the ambulatory work previously attached
to hospitals. Although some polyclinics may be
physically attached to a hospital, others will be
free standing but functionally related to a
hospital. The polyclinics will serve as centers
of consultation for patients referred from the
general health centers. The polyclinics resemble
in some respects a collection of separate specialty
clinics, all on one site, sharing certain services
(laboratory, x-ray, recordkeeping) and functioning
under one administrative authority. That authority
will usually be the senior doctor on the staff who
in turn will be responsible to the director of the
hospital that serves the polyclinic.
c. Hospitals, at the apex of the pyramid, provide the
most specialized care and consultation.
2.12      Preventive and educational services (immunizations, school
health, sanitation, family planning, endemic disease control) are repre-
sented at levels a and b of the system. All staffing, supervision and
administrative authority over all levels of the program derive from the
hospitals.
2.13      The Director of the Governorate Hospital will be administrative
and professional head of the entire system of care derived from his
hospital, including polyclinics and GHCs. He will have at least two



-8-
assistants, one for preventive and another for curative services. All
health services, including public health, will be under his authority
and he will have a group of consultants to advise him.
2.14      The removal of specialists' outpatient services from hospitals
is intended to bring these services closer to the population, and to
bring specialist doctors into closer contact with the medical staff of
the GHCs who will both have easier access to specialists and increased
opportunities for broadening their professional skills by more frequent
contacts with the specialists. The new system will also put an end to
general-purpose outpatient services at hospitals and steer such patients
in the first instance to their neighborhood GHC.  This will remove thhe
burden of crowded general-purpose outpatient work from hospital staff
and premises. Many of the polyclinics will be located adjacent to
hospitals so that the specialist staffs may serve both institutions.
Studies have been made of the types of referrals for specialist care
that have been made in the recent past as a basis for deciding how many
and which specialties will need to be represented in different types of
polyclinics. (Illustrative results are shown in Annex 12.) It is
planned for the physician at the GHC to give local supervision to both
preventive and curative services. Physicians will be assigned to GHCs
by the hospital director. Many GHC physicians will enter specialty
training after their obligatory period of service, but those who elect
to stay on, making a career of general medicine, may be advanced in rank
and salary while continuing to work at the GHC. A community council of
leaders will advise on the functions and performance of each GHC.
2.15      Government medical salaries are low and most doctors seek
additional employment or have their own private clinics which they
operate outside normal government hours (usually 8:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.).
Government policy has been to permit doctors in urban areas to accept
additional employment outside government hours and to operate private
-linics in urban areas. Doctors in rural areas,however, have not been
allowed to operate private clinics, since earlier experience of thls
practice saw many abuses. TJnder the new system of IRS, the Ministry is
proposing that government doctors in both rural areas and in cities and
towns be permitted not only to accept fees for non-government service
but to use the polyclinics as their private offices. This privilege will
benefit only the specialists, i.e., those doctors assigned to polyclinics.
While this arrangement obviousl' econonizes on buildings and equipment,
it also holds the obvious danger that doctors will be inattentive to
morring patients and will encourage their return during the afternoons
and evenings when fees may legally be charged. The Ministry is hopeful
that widespread abuses can be avoided.
2.16     TM early 1973, the Ministry of Health adopted the reorganized
plan of nealth services for the entire country and has proceeded to
Implement the plan in four pilot areas:  Qena and Damietta Governorates
and two parts of Greater Cairo.



_9-
IManpower
2.17      Despite the rapid expansion of health facilities in recent
years there has been no serious over-all shortage of trained manpower
to staff them. At present there are some specific shortages, notably
of qualified nurses and of the even more highly-trained nurse-midwives,
as well as of teachers for these skills. (The project includes a com-
ponent that will help overcome these specific shortages.) But the system
has "made do" with the skills available and a few new facilitiei,have
stood vacant for lack of personnel for more than a short while.   The
main problem so far as doctors are concerned is a widely-felt deteriora-
tion in the quality of medical training resulting from the tripling in
the numbers being trained during the past 15 years.2/ It is true that
the combination of military mobilization, the expansion of Egypt's
foreign assistance to other Arab countries, and a fairly substantial
"brain drain" of doctors have reduced by 20-25% the number of doctors
who would otherwise be available for the domestic health services; but
these events may have spared the country from a temporary surplus of
doctors rather than held back the expansion of the system. (In late
1971, the Government took steps to prevent the drain of doctors and
nurses to nearby countries, mainly Libya, where salaries are far higher
than in Egypt.)
2.18      One of the most helpful aspects of the Egyptian medical-
manpower picture is the successful working of a rule that effectively
distributes doctors over the country. The law requires that all doctors
must serve for at least two years wherever the Ministry requires, with
the graduates given their choice of vacancies in order of their class
standing upon graduation. This is not to say that new graduates posted
to rural locations necessarily enjoy their assignments; many may start
maneuvering for graduate study or reassignment as soon as they arrive
at their first post; but at least they accept the working of the rule,
which gets doctors where they are needed. The problem of distributing
the supply of the other occupations is not nearly as serious (at least
not for the key family planning skills) since the recruitment of nurses,
assistant nurses, midwives, and assistant nurse-midwives is essentially
1/ Between 1965 and 1969 the number of rural health facilities rose by
34% but the number of doctors practicing in rural areas increased by
only 9% and by 1969 approximately 100 units were without full-time
doctors. However, the total number of staff working in the rural
health services rose from 75600 to 9,600 (70%) between 1965 and 1969,
more than keeping pace with the expansion of physical facilities.
New patterns of staffing, such as a regular roster of supervision of
a number of units by non-resident doctors, together with greater
delegation of duties, may be required.
2/ In mid-1971 there were about 18,000 doctors in Egypt (3,000 non-
emigrants were working abroad). In 1950, the country had 4,800
doctors.  Between 1950 and 1967 the ratio of population per doctor
fell from 4,300 to 2,000; the ratio would have become even more
favorable if the country had not been experiencing rapid population
growth at the same time.



- 10 -
regional, not national. One objective of the new IHS is to increase
job satisfaction for doctors serving in general health centers. The
hope is that they can be given higher status by making them more truly
"family doctors"1, greater professional satisfaction by giving them closer
and more frequent contacts with the specialists in the polyclinics, and
higher incomes by permitting them to charge fees for services rendered
outside the hours of their government duties. All this is intended to
reduce the present high turnover of doctors at the level of the local
clinic.
Training
2.19      The most urgent manpower problem confronting the family plan-
ning program is training. This has several aspects. One concerns the
inclusion of more and better materials on population and family planning
in the basic training courses for each of the occupations. For example,
population and family planning topics are not yet systematically incor-
porated into the curriculum of the medical schools. At present, maedical
students receive four hours of instruction on contraception and, in
theory, seven hours of clinical instruction on the insertion of IUDs
!,(this seems doubtful in view of class sizes of 500-1,000 students).
Students in the various nursing occupations do receive 12 hours of in-
struction in population and family planning, using a health education
pamphlet prepared in 1970 by the Executive Board; but the coverage
appears less than a major national health need would seem to require.
(The problem, of course, would be to determine what competing material
to reduce to make time for more population and family planning material.)
There are no materials yet for sanitarians or other technicians. If
there is to be any general strengthening of the doctorts curriculum in
population and family planning, the Board and the Ministry will probably
have to take the initiative in pressing the Committee on Hlgher Medlcal
Education to recommend such changes.
2.20      A second, and perhaps even more serious problem, is the -weak-
ness of present preservice and inservice training arrangements.  All
doctors are required to attend a six-week pre-employment training course;
this course is now given on a decentralized basis in each Governorate by
the Ministry of Health before the new doctors go to their first assign-
erent. At present one of these six weeks is devoted in part to instruction
in family planning, with local officials of the NFPB (not the Ministry of
Health) responsible for preparing teaching materials and doing the family
planning teaching. So far as inservice training is concerned, there have
been a modest number of short courses organized to train doctors in IUD
nr.ser+ion. Ma y more such courses wil' be needed -- especially for
female doct,ors_  -- if the program is to realize its goal of increasing
-   Many Egyptian women will accept ILUD insertions from male doctors --
but others will not. Every unit offering IUDs should have a woman
trained to insert them. The Board and the Ministry are currently
considering whether to train nurses and midwives in IUD insertion;
the mission strongly endorses the proposal, provided the training
includes adequate clinical practice under the supervision of a doctor
skilled in this work.



- 11 -
greatly the proportion of women accepting IUDs instead of pills. The
project includes the construction of six training centers to be used
for preservice and inservice training that will pay more attention to
demography and family planning (see paras 3.06 and 3.07).
FamilZ Planning in the Reorganization
2.21      The provision of family planning services depends mainly on
the Ministry of Health (MOH).  On it depends, for example, the days and
hours facilities are open for family planning services; the staffing
level of units and the distribution of functions among medical and para-
medical personnel, which family planning activities may affect; the
effect of program emphasis on contraceptive methods and the effect of
these methods on staffing and training (e.g. the present shift towards
IUD emphasis will require an effort to see that more women doctors are
available at units capable of offering this method, that they are ade-
quately trained in the method, and that consideration be given to
training nurses and nurse-midwives in IUD insertion); the maintenance
of statistical records, the lines of responsibility for staff super-
vision of family planning activities at service units; responsibility
for ordering and delivery of contraceptive supplies; the provision of
extra funds to pay for the added costs represented by family planning
services; and the planning of expansion programs made possible by the
additional capital funds allocated to the health sector by virtue of
its role in population control.
2.22      Under the present organization of health services,government
family planning services are delivered by the regular personnel of the
health service system during normal clinic hours. However, those
health-service staff directly involved in family planning have been
given special incentive payments. This has created friction with other
health personnel without having any clear and strong effect on the
recruitment of acceptors.
2.23      Although the Integrated Health Services have not been designed
primarily to achieve improved MCH and family planning services, it is
hoped that the IHS will have these benefits. A major aim of the IHS is
to build closer, more personal and more lasting relations between doctors
and families in their service areas. The number and qualifications of
nursing personnel are to be increased. These changes, plus intensified
training in family planning, are counted on to increase the motivation
and ability of health personnel to persuade more families to practice
family planning. Follow-up activities may also improve, reducing some-
what the dropout rate. The existence of more highly specialized personnel
at the polyclinics is intended to provide more skilled and more accessible
back-stopping services for local health personnel when complications arise.
Despite these hoped-for advantages, there may be some offsetting dis-
advantages if the present specialized MCH clinics (the most effective
clinics for recruiting family planning acceptors) are merged into the new
general-purpose centers; it remains to be seen how MCH services will be
handled within the IHS system. In addition, the IHS system is unlikely to
help overcome one of the weaknesses of traditional health systems for



- 12 -
recruiting family planning acceptors, i.e. the difficulty of persuading
people to visit clinics in sufficiently large numbers. To overcome this
shortcoming, the project includes an experimental outreach program based
on home visiting (see para. 3.14).
Costs and Financing of the Family Planning Program
2.24      The organizational structure of the program (i.e. a semi-
autonomous Board carrying out its program through other agencies) makes
it difficult to estimate with any accuracy the total costs of the country's
population-control activities. The NFPB has had its own budget of just
over LE one million in recent years (see Annex 14). The basic costs of
the service delivery system are included as part of the normal operating
costs of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Since
the staffing of the MOH units wiulch offer family planning services has
been increased only slightly as a result of the introduction of such
services, the addition of these services since the mid-1960s has not
increased significantly the Ministry's budgetary requirements over what
would have been required in the absence of family planning. However,
it is impractical to disentangle the interaction between national family
planning objectives and expansion of the health services. Probably the
largest, and certainly the most easily identifiable cost of the total
family planning program is represented by the Boardts own budget; but the
total program cost is probably at least twice this amount.
2.25      The NFPB's 1972 budget of LE 1,164,000 amounted to only 1.9% of
the MOH's budget of nearly LE 60,000,000 (or 5-6% of the Government's
total budget). In 1973 the Board assumed responsibility for the full
salary and other costs of its employees; the increase required by shifting
these costs to the Board have raised its total 1973 budget to about
LE 1.5 million. Even after the transfer of full personnel costs to the
Board's own budget, a substantial amount of indirect program costs con-
tinue to be carried by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social
Affairs, and a few other ministries. However, it seems very unlikely
that the national family planning program will have added as much as 5%
to the total government budget for health. The total budgetary cost of
the Government's family planning program probably does not exceed 0.5%
or 1% of the total Government budget.
External Assistance
2.26      The initial contributions of foreign aid came from private
American foundations and technical assistance agencies (the largest amount
came from the Ford Foundation but additional assistance came from the
Population Council, the International Planned Parenthood Federation, and
the Pathfinder Fund). Bilateral aid has been small with Denmark and
Sweden both making modest grants.
2.27      The major source of external assistance has been the United
Nations. U.N. assistance to family planning began in January/February
1969 with a Consultative Mission composed of members from the U.N., Unesco,



- 13 -
WHO, and UNICEF. As a result of that missionts report, senior advisors
in program development and in communications were provided to the Board.
UNICEF and WHO each gave technical assistance in developing training
proposals, UNICEF gave funds to support domestic training activities, and
UNICEF initially agreed to supply 25 mobile health units to extend family
planning services to thinly-settled areas that could not be served by
static units (the plan for mobile services was later dropped after a
leadership change in the Board). The 1969 UNICEF grant also provided
funds for the import of raw materials used in the domestic manufacture of
contraceptives.  In 1970, UNFPA made a US$300,000 grant for the same
purpose. Much of the largest single bloc of foreign aid has come from
the four-year UNFPA Agreement signed in April 1971. The Agreement pro-
vides up to US$8 million (in foreign exchange) over the four years 1971-
74. It specifies 13 areas of activity which will qualify for initial
assistance and names the U.N. agencies (i.e. the U.N., UNICEF, ILO, Unesco,
WHO, "and other organizations in the United Nations system as appropriate")
to serve as "Participating and Executing Organizations". The preparation
of detailed annual work-plans for spending these funds was left to be
worked out later, giving flexibility but also leaving the basic objectives
somewhat vague.  The UNFPA grant has the effect of increasing the Boardts
budget by about 75%, although not all the UNFPA funds are expected to pass
through the Board's own budget. Thus the UNFPA Agreement goes far to
removing finance as a constraint on program expansion, except for needed
physical facilities.
2.28      The program's most pressing financial need av the present time
appears to be foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials and
packaging supplies for domestically-made contraceptives and for the import
of finished goods (mainly high-quality condoms). The UNFPA Agreement
includes provision for the purchase of contraceptive supplies; at the end
of 1972 UNICEF was using these funds to procure raw materials and supplies
needed by the Government's own program but not for the private sector. The
latter was entirely dependent on the Government's foreign exchange alloca-
tions to the three pharmaceutical firms manufacturing the pill. Such
allocations have to come out of the general exchange-allocating mechanisms
of the Government, without the security of adequate, earmarked funds.
This is an unsatisfactory situation that finds the manufacturers sometimes
unable to keep the pharmacies supplied. The Board should assume responsi-
bility for (a) estimating the amount of foreign exchange needed each year
for keeping non-government channels adequately supplied and (b) arranging
to secure from external sources grants adequate to fund these requirements.
This might be arranged by earmarking the foreign exchange provided by the
present UNFPA grant or through a supplemental UNFPA grant. An assurance
has been obtained that to ensure the availability of oral contraceptives
through commercial (non-governmental) channels, the Borrower would make
an allocation in foreign exchange amounting to US$200,000 equivalent
annually in calendar years 1974 through 1976.



ITI. THE PROJECT
3.01      The project consists of a mixture of facilities ("hardware"')
and activities ("software") designed to help the Government develop new
and more effective ways of increasing the number of family planning
acceptors. Almost all the "hardware" components consist of facilities
needed to implement the new system of Integrated Health Services (IHS)
which the Government will test out in four representative governorates
to be used as pilot areas. (Damietta, Qalubiya, Cairo and Qena.) The
IHS has not been designed primarily to improve family planning services;
in the demonstration areas, however, it will completely replace the
existing organization of health services and will therefore constitute
the only means of delivering government family planning services in those
areas. Consequently the organization and operation of the IHS, which are
proposed for eventual adoption throughout the country, could influence
greatly the effectiveness of family planning services. Since it is un-
likely that the construction of these new health delivery facilities or
the reorganization of health services by themselves will greatly increase
the access of people to family planning services or influence their under-
standing and motivation, the project includes other activities, some
designed for their innovative and experimental nature.
3.02      The project consists of three general components:
a. The construction, furnishing, and equipment of:
i. Twenty-two general health centers;
ii. Twelve polyclinics;
iii. Three centers for nurse-teacher training; and
iv. Three demonstration centers at which inservice
training will be conducted.
b. The purchase of 150 multipurpose four-wheeled vehicles.
c. The carrying out of the following program activities:
i. Three studies to foster the establishment of an
effective evaluation system;
ii. The design and implementation of an experimental
home-visiting program;
iii.  Production of health education materials; and
iv. A study to improve maintainance of health
facilities.
3.03      The new IRS will consist of a hierarchy of health facilities
linked by a referral system that will direct patients from general
practitioners at the peripheral units to specialists located at higher
levels in the system (polyc'inics and hospitals).  The new system will
be based largely on a reorganization of the administrative relationships
among existing health facilities; some new construction is needed, however,
and the project will provide all new GUCs and polyclinics to be built in
the four pilot areas during the 1973-75 period.



- 15 -
A. General Health Centers
3.04      The 22 GHCs will be located at urban and rural sites where they
can serve catchment areas of about 5,000 people (with a maximum service
radius of 25 km). The new GHC will offer a more complete set of health
services than any of the various existing types of peripheral units they
are designed to replace (e.g. urban health centers, rural health centers,
rural health units, maternal and child health centers). Services to be
provided will include first aid and emergency treatment plus general
medical care including MCH and family planning, general care of the school-
age population, immunizations, public health services, health education,
pharmacy and laboratory services, and dental care. GHCs will also be
responsible for recording vital statistics. Thus both curative and
preventive local services will be carried out and supervised by the GHC
staff. All functions will be under the administrative control of the G&C
doctor in charge; however, the MOH has not yet worked out in detail the
allocation of administrative and technical supervisory responsibilities
for all services as between the persons in charge of the GHCs polyclinics,
and hospitals on the one hand and persons serving in the Zonal Health
Offices (the Governorate offices of the MOH) on the other. Under the IHS
scheme no new MCH centers are expected to be built, since the MCH function
will be performed by the GHCs. It is not yet clear what will become of
existing MCH centers in the pilot areas. This is an important question
since MCH centers have generated larger numbers of acceptors than any other
type of health facility.
B. Polyclinics
3.05      Polyclinics are to be centers of specialist medical services
that will (a) relieve hospitals of some cases not requiring hospitaliza-
tion and (b) provide GHC with a referral source for patients needing
specialist attention but not hospitalization. The IHS makes provision
for three types of polyclinics; these are linked in a referral hierarchy
among themselves (rural to urban to Governorate). All three types are
represented in the project in the numbers indicated:
i.  Rural polyclinics (2):  These wrll be located in towns or
large villages where they can serve populations of 25O000
to 50,000.  They will provide services in the fielUs of
internal medicine, general surgery, pediatrics, obstetrics
and gynecology, ophthaLmology, and family planning.  Since
all services are to be linited to referred cases, presumably
the family planning activities will consist either o TUI
insertions for GHCs that have no one authorized to perfonm
this service, or consultation and service on complications
resulting from service previously rendered at the GHC level
Both project rural polyclinics will be located in the Qena
Governorate.



ii.  District polyclinics (8):  These are to be located Ln
cities and towns with populations of 100,000 to 200,000.
They will provide all services noted for the rural
polyclinics plus seven additional specialties: eye-
ear-nose-and-throat (EENT), a chest clinic, dermatology,
venereal diseases, and radiology. Of the eight poly-
clinics, five will be in Qena Governorate, two in
Damietta Governorate and one in Qalubiya Governorate.
iii.  Governorate polyclinics (2):  These provide specialist
consultation and advice for all services offered by
other polyclinics plus service in the field of cardiology,
neurology, endocrinology, chest surgery, vascular surgery,
neuro-surgery, plastic surgery, and pediatric surgery.
Surgery requiring hospitalization will not be conducted
in the Governorate or any other polyclinic, as these will
have no beds. Surgery will be limited to those procedures
that can be conducted on an outpatient basis. One
governorate polyclinic will be located in Danietta, the
other in Qena.
C. Nursing Teacher-Training Centers
3.06      Nurses and nurse-midwives are the two health occupations suffer-
ing from serious shortages and the MOH has launched a program for greatly
expanding their numbers.  (See Annex 6)   The main constraint in expanding
the supply of nurses and midwives is the lack of qualified teachers. The
project will construct and equip three centers to be devoted exclusively
to the training of nursing educators. Each center will be located adjacent
to a university teaching hospital (in Cairo, Assiut, and Tanta). Each
center will provide places for 50 students, who will be in residence for
approximately nine months (an academic year). While only a small proportion
of the studentst curriculum time will be devoted to population and family
planning, the attitutde of nursing teachers to this subject is of obvious
importance; during negotiations assurance was obtained that the MOH
would submit to the Association within three months of credAt effectiveness
the detailed syllabus of population and family planning material in the
curricula for both nurses and nursing teachers.
D. Demonstration Training Centers
3.07      Three demonstration training centers will be Ouilt for ir-
service training of IHS and other personnel.  These will not be used for
Lamily planining training alone, although family planning will be among
the topics for which courses will be organized.  Most courses will be
of a duration of 2-- weeks and will be under the direction of the MOH.
Classroom and residentIa1. accommodations will be built for 5>) students
at a time.  One demonstration training center will be located in each of
the Governorates of Qena, Damietta and Qalubiya.



- 17 -
E. Vehicles
3.08      One hundred and fifty general-purpose four-wheeled vehicles
will be provided. Almost all are expected to be small vans which can
be used for supervision, training needs, and as ambulances through a
simple conversion. A few sedans and station-wagons will be included in
the list of vehicles.  All vehicles will belong to the MOH. They will
be allocated throughout the country, as needed, and will be used mainly
for family planning activities.
F. Evaluation Studies
3.09      Beyond the collection of service statistics, there has been
very little evaluation of the family planning program's effectiveness.
Practically nothing is known about the continuation rates of acceptors,
a fact of great importance to any estimate of the program's demographic
effects. The project provides for three evaluation studies. Their
main objective is to secure a quick feed-back on the performance of the
family planning program.
3.10      A three-month study of clinic patient cards in a large sample
of clinics in the four IHS areas will be undertaken to determine the
socio-economic and demographic characteristics of acceptors and drop-
outs of the program. This study will provide insight on what sub-groups
of the populatioh are reached by the program, what groups are not;
whether the program is accepted by mainly older multiparous women or
whether also the younger women are reached at an early stage in their
reproductive life; whether there is a pattern of women who desert the
program; and similar questions. The methodology to be employed is
simple, consisting of tabulating data on current and former family
planning clients available on clinic patient records. The relevant data
include: age, number of live-born children by mother's age and duration
of marriage, urban/rural residence, education, occupation and husband's
occupation.
3.11      Another study will yield preliminary data on how successful
the program is in terms of retaining women as regular users of contra-
ceptives in the IHS areas. Clinical records yield useful preliminary
data on continuation and apparent drop-outs, since women are expected
to return to the clinic at regular intervals. If e woman does not return
she may either have abandoned contraceptive practice or she may be
continuing without the clinic's supervision. The preliminary analysis
of clinical records over a certain period will therefore be supplemented
by interviewing a sample of current and former clients of family planning
clinics in the survey area, in order to establish the degree of satis-
faction with the existing family planning services, reasons for abandoning
the program, etc. Continuation rates will be calculated by contraceptive
method and selected acceptor characteristics.



- 1 8 -
3.12      Thirdly, an in-depth study of family planning acceptance in
Damietta Governorate will be conducted. For the past few years this
Governorate has consistently shown a significantly higher acceptance
rate than any other in the country. An explanation of this fact could
yield valuable insights. This studv will seek answers to questions such
as: Are the characteristics of the target population different from
others in the Delta or elsewhere? Have there been any noticeable
differences in the type of family planning activities in the Governorate?
Do pill sales from commercial pharmacies also appear higher than in other
Governorates of the Delta (e.g. in relation to population size)? Do
drop-out rates seem lower than in other Governorates? Is the proportion
of ITUDs/pills about the same in Damietta as in other Governorates of the
Delta? Are the statistics, in fact, valid or are they perhaps maintained
on a somewhat different basis than in other Governorates?
3.13      All three studies will be conducted by Egyptian academic or
other research personnel; it is expected that tabulators, interviewers,
and study directors can be recruited from universities or other research
institutions. Short-term technical assistance to all three studies will
be provided by one or two advisors with experience in the evaluation of
family planning programs. Results of the studies will be prepared in
both Arabic and English. The working out of detailed administrative
arrangements for conducting these studies is a responsibility of the
Project Coordinating Committee, which may seek help from the Evaluation
Division of the National Family Planning Board. Agreement has been
reached during negotiations that the Government will conclude satisfactory
administrative arrangements for the studies not later than three months
after credit effectiveness and will complete the studies within 15 months
of credit effectiveness.
G. Experimental Home-Visiting Program
3.14      The Bankrs 1972 Sector Review concluded that one difficulty in
recruiting acceptors is that the present system relies primarily on
waiting for people to visit the health facilities.  It suggested that
the acceptance rate might be increased by taking education and supplies
into people's homes. To test this hypothesis an experimental home-visiting
program will be designed and put into practice in at least two of the
four IHS areas.  A number of women will be recruited, which after a
limited basic training, will visit homes in assigned areas to discuss with
the housewife such topics as infant and child care, nutrition, general
hygiene, and above all family planning.
3.15      The program will be carried out under the general responsibility
of the Ministry of Health. An adequate institution will be contracted to
design a general strategy for the program, the training program for the
home visitors, a monitoring and reporting system of program activities,
as -well as, a methodology for evaluation of program performance.  It is
expected that such a design can be completed in six months. The selection
of this institution will be a condition of credit effectiveness. The
first batch of home visitors will have been recruited, trained, and



- 19 -
assigned to duty by the middle of the project lifz. (I.c. by about January
1975). Between 200-300 home visitors should be at work by the end of
1975.  To provide a basis for decidinz whether or not to expand the
program into other areas it was agreed during ne!fotiat4ons that the
Borrower will carry out the evaluation of the progrP=- between January
and June 1976 or between such other dates as will be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
H. Production of Health Education Materials
3.16      The Ministry of Health intends to expand its production of
health education materials for use both in training MO  staff and for
public education.  The World Health Organization hl- -r-'d to assist
the Ministry in this activity, supplying both techri-nl and financial
assistance for the establishment of a new Commurlic+ion7 Materials Unit
within the MOR. The Association will assist this new unit on condition
that it include within its work program the preparation of demographic,
technical, and motivational materials suitable for use in the training
of medical and paramedical personnel, for use by the home health visitors,
and other population-related materials. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that the Borrower will prepare a satisfactory work program
for the production of health education and population-related materials
within three months of credit effectiveness.
I. Study to Improve Maintenance of Hea&-rth 7a,11ities
3.17      Although some health buildings and their equipment are well-
maintained, the general standard of building and equipment maintenance
is low. This shortens the life of physical assets, sometimes reduces the
ability to provide services, and tolerates physical standards that have a
negative effect on staff morale.  There exists at present no standard
procedure or organization for looking after the maintenance of health
buildings and equipment; budgetary provision for such activities are
extremely low and even these inadequate provisioons are often not fully
used for their intended purpose. The project will therefore include a
small study by consulting architects to see what can reasonably be done
to improve the standard of maintenance of health buildings and non-
vehicular equipment.  The study will prepare recommendations for a
maintenance organization, procedures, and budgetary support needed to
bring the maintenance function to a reasonable standard. It is expected
that the consulting architects will complete their study within 12 months
of their engagement. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
the Borrower will submit to the Association a detailed plan for
implementing arrangements for improving the maintenance of health
facilities and their equipment within six months of the submission of the
consultants' recommendations on this matter.



- 20
TV. IMPLEMEZTATION. COSTS, PROPOSED FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Implementation
Project Administration
4.01      The overall responsibility for project implementation will rest
with a three-man Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) consisting of a
Project Coordinator (PC) and two Assistant Project Coordinators (APCs).
The Project Coordinator will be a senior officer of the Ministry of
Health, and will report directly to the Minister. The PC will be the
main point of contact between the Government and the Association in all
matters relating to the project.
4.02      The PCC will have an Assistant Project Coordinator for
construction and an Assistant Project Coordinator for program activities.
The APC (Construction) will be an architect designated by the Ministry of
Housing and Construction and will be responsible in that Ministry for all
matters relating to the construction of the projectfs physical facilities
and for the procurement of their equipment and furniture. The APC
(Program Activities) will be appointed by the Minister of Health. He will
be qualified by seniority and experience to take primary responsibility
for identifying institutions and/or individuals capable of carrying out
the program activities described in the project. He will monitor the
progress of these activities and be responsible for seeing that they are
energetically pursued. He will also oversee the procurement and assign-
ment of vehicles financed by the project. The PCC will be provided with
sufficient supporting staff; the latter shall include a Project Accountant,
who will maintain project accounts and prepare documentation for drawing
down the credit.
4.03      The Project Coordinator and the two Assistant Project Coordi-
nators shall be appointed in consultation with the Association. The
establishment of a PCC and the appointment of a PC and two APCs shall be
a condition of credit effectiveness.
Professional Services
4.04      The Government has agreed to retain an Architect Consultant
firm for general guidance and assistance on planning, design, and con-
struction of the project. The signing of a contract with a firm of
Consultant Architects on terms and conditions mutually agreeable to the
Government and the Association shall be a condition of credit effective-
nes,.  T-he Consultant will establish proper environmental and construction
standards and closely superv se the implementation of the project's
physical facilities. In addition to preparing schematic architectural
designs and lists of furniture and equipment (Groups 1 and 2) the
Consultant will advise on the appointment of Executive Architects, and
the preparation of production documents. In addition to offering
reconmendations during construction, the Consultant will also establish



- 21 -
procedures for procurement, cost control and cost planning during the
implementation of the oroject and closely liaise with the Ministry cf
HTousing and Construction. The Consultant wlll also assist the Borrower
in establishing measures for a planned system of maintenance for health
buildings, installations and equiurent.
1X.05     Exectutive Architects will be retained, on the basis of their
ex'erience, architectural merit and management ability.  Their engagement
shall be on terms and conditions mutually acceptable to the Governmentb
and the Association. The Executive Architects will be responsible for
detailed design, scheduling, as well as for preparation of tender
documents and supervising the construction of individual project
facilities. The construction schedule is given in Annex 19.
4).0)6   The Ministry of Health will collaborate with the Ministry of
Housing and Construction for the detailed design programming of the
buildings to be financed under this project.
Project Sites
8.07      During negotiation, agreement was reached that the Government
will acquire no later than six months after the signing of the Credit all
land and rights in land required for the construction and operation of
the facilities included in the project.  Complete surveys and description
of all sites would be prepared and would be available to the consulting
architects.  The Government will provide all necessary and crstomary
ut-lity serxr ces required for the proper functioning of the facilities
on these sites.
Contracts and Procurement
14.o8     Except for contracts for civil works and furniture estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or less and except for contracts for
the production of health education material or for the procurement of
equipment related thereto, all contracts for civil works and for the
acquisition of furniture and equipment, vehicles and parts will be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/
IDA guidelines. IDA would be expected to finance only some US$50,000 worth
of health education materials and related equipment. Domestic manufacturers
of vehicles, furniture and equipment will be accorded a margin of preference
equal to 15% of the CIF costs of competing imports or the prevailing rate of
customs duty, whichever is lower.   To the extent appropriate, procurement will
be based on bid "packages" prepared in such a way as to encourage bidding
from both foreign and domestic firms and in consultation with the
architectural consultants and the Association.
B. Costs
4.09      Of the total project costs of LE 4.127 million, about 85.5% is
for the construction and equipment of physical facilities, 6.5% for
vehicles, 2.5% for consultants and 4.5% for innovative program activities.
Project costs are shown in Annex 17 and summarized in the following table.



- 22
Breakdown by Disbursement Category
L.E. (in thousands)            US$ (in thousands)
Local    Foreign  Total        Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works        1,359        583   1,942       3,467    1,487    4,954
Furniture & Equip.   161        481     642         411    1,227    1,638
Vehicles              12        223     235           30      570      600
Consultants           29         69      98          75       175      250
Program Activities   100         59     159         255       150      405
Subtotal      1,661     1,415   3,076        4,238    3,609    7,847
Contingencies
1. Escalation on
civil works,
prof. svcs.,
F. & E.          188       300      488         479       765    1,244
2. Pbysical
contingencies    334        229     563         853       582    1,435
'Subtotal        522       529   1,051        1,332    1,347    2,679
Total         2,183     1,914   4,127        5,570    4,956   10,526
4.10      Construction cost estimates have been derived from a study of
recent building costs in the four main project areas of the country with
adjustments for regional differences. Construction costs have escalated
approximately on an average of 9.5% per year over the last two years. Cost
increases are expected to continue during the construction period. A 10%
p.a. allowance for escalation contingencies has been included as well as an
allowance to cover physical contingencies.
4.11      The foreign exchange component of US$5 million equivalent
represents about 47% of the total costs. It has been calculated as 30%
of civil works, 75% of the cost of equipment and furniture, 95% of the
cost of vehicles, and 37% of the costs of innovative program activities.
C. Proposed Financing
4.12      The project would be financed by an IDA credit of US$5.0 million
and a Government contribution of us$5.5 million equivalent. The IDA
credit will cover the foreign exchange component of us$5 million. The
credit would be in standard IDA terms.



- 23 -
D. Disbursements
4.13      The Credit would be disbursed as follows: - 30% of civil works con-
tracts and program activities; c.i.f. cost of imported equipment, furniture,
vehicles and spare parts; 70% of the cost of consultant services. The Asso-
ciation would finance the ex-factory cost of equipment and furniture manufac-
tured locally and/or 70% of total cost if such items are imported but pro-
cured locally. Vehicles and spare parts manufactured locally would be financed
for 100% of the ex-factory cost. In case of change in the total cost of the
Project, the percentage for civil works and locally procured items would be
adjusted at the Association's option in order to spread the disbursements
throughout the construction period. Undisbursed funds would be cancelled un-
less an alternative use were approved by the Association. A disbursement
schedule is shown in Annex 20.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The main direct contribution of the project to the population pro-
gram is that it will introduce, in the IHS pilot areas, three types of high-
priority activities identified by the 1972 Sector Review. These three acti-
vities are the carrying out of initial evaluation studies, the introduction
of an experimental home-visiting program by female health visitors, and the
preparation of more and better training and educational materials.  The pro-
ject would assist the Government to carry out these innovative activities
believed necessary to strengthen and expand the present family planning program;
it would also create an opportunity for the Bank Group and the Government to
develop a mutually satisfactory longer-run relationship which, it is hoped,
would lead to a second, more comprehensive population project to provide finan-
cial and technical assistance in support of the Government's demographic ob-
jectives.
5.02      Furthermore the project would contribute to the expansion of health
manpower involved in the provision of family planning services. This consists
of two main classes of manpower, (1) teachers of nursing, who will be key peo-
ple in the major expansion of nurse training now going on, and (2) already-
employed medical and paramedical personnel who are to be given short-term
courses in the IHS areas to prepare them for working within the new systemi
This inservice training is to include material on demography and family planning.
5.03      Although the construction of physical facilities is not expected to
extend significantly the catchment area of the health delivery systenl, inple-
mentation of the new IHS system; in these pilot areas is expected to have a
positive bearing on the Government's family planning objectives. Mlore atten-
tion to preventive and environmental health, conceived as one of the ob-ect-ves
of the IHS, should facilitate the recruitment of new acceptors. The IRS is
also expected to create a better relationship between doctors and patients
which will ensure a better follow-up of family planning acceptors and there-
fore increase the retention of eligible couples as acceptors of family planning.
While the project, related to this experimental health delivery program, is
expected to increase the quality of family planning services, it is not feasible
to estimate in advance any quantitative project effects on family planning accep-
tance or on fertility levels.



- 24 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
actions to be taken by the date indicated:
a. To earmark annually during FYs 1974, 1975 and 1976, US$200,000
equivalent of foreign exchange for the importation of raw.
materials for the manufacture of oral contraceptives to be
distributed through the commercial sector (para 2.28 );
b. To submit to the Association, within three months of credit
effectiveness, the detailed syllabus of population and family
planning material to be included in the curricula for both
nur-ses and nursing teachers (para 3.06);
c.  To work out, within three months of credit effectiveness, with
an appropriate source of technical assistance, specific arrange-
ments for conducting the evaluation studies necessary to pro-
duce continuation rates and key characteristics of acceptors
and to complete the studies within 15 months of credit
effectiveness (paras 3.09 to 3.13);
d. To carry out an evaluation of the home-visiting program
between January and June 1976 or between such other dates as
will be agreed between the Borrower and the Association
(para 3.15);
e. To prepare within three months of credit effectiveness a
satisfactory work program for the production of health
education and population-related materials (para 3.16);
f. To submit to the Association a detailed plan for implementing
arrangements for improving the maintenance of health facilities
and their equipment within 6 months of the submission of the
consultants' recommendations on this matter (para 3.17);
g. To engage Executive Architects on terms and conditions mutually
acceptable to the Government and the Association (para 4.05); and
h. To acquire, within 6 months of the signing of the credit agree-
ment, all land and rights in land required for the construction
and oDeration of the facilities included in the project (para 4.07).
6.02      The conditions of credit effectiveness are:
a. The completion of an agreement with an institution acceptable
to the Association, to prepare detailed plans for an
experimental home-visiting program (para 3.15);
b.  The establishment of a PCC and, in consultation with the
Association, the appointm.ent of a Project Coordinator and
two Assistant Coordinators (paras 4.01 and 4.02); and



- 25 -
c.  The employment of a firmu of Consulting Architects
acceptable to the Association (para 4.04).
6.03      Subject to the above terms and conditions, the project is suitable
for a credit of US$5.o mill-lon on standard TPA terms.






ANNIEX 1
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt: Population and Cropped Areas,
Census Years from 1897 to 1966
Cropped Area
Population               Feddans                  Per
Year              (millions)               (millions)              Capita
1897                  9.7                      6.8                  .71
1907                 11.2                      7.6                  .67
1917                 12.8                      7.7                  .60
1927                 1h.2                      8.7                  .61
1937                 15.9                      8.4                   .53
1947                 19.0                      9.2                   .48
1960                 26.0                     10.2                   .39
1966                 30.0                     10.4                   .34
Sources:  M. H. Nagi, Labor Force and Employment in Egypt.  New York:
Praeger Publishers. (n.d.)  U.A.R. Central Agency for
Public Mobilization and Statistics, Population Increase in
the U. A. R. and Its Deterrents to Development (Cairo, 1966),
pp. 62 and 143.






ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
Arab Republic of Egypt: Changes in Fertility, 1955-1967
A. Distribution of New Born by Order of Birth, 955-1967
Order of Birth                          Percentage of New Born
1955           1959-61        1967
1, 2, 3                        W..9            40.0           59.8
4, 5                           29.8            30.3           24.8
6+                             25.3            29.7           15.4
B. Mean Order of New Born by Age of Mother
Age of Mother                           Mean Order of New Born
1955           1959-61        1967
Under 30                       3.0             3.0            2.5
Over 30                        5.6             6.o            4.
Total                         4.2             4.5            3-
C. Estimated Duration of Marriage by Order of Birth, 1955-1967
Order of Birth                        Mean Duration of Marriage (years)
1955           1959-61        1967
1                              1.45            1.44           1.75
2                              3.22            3.16           4.22
3                              5.31            5.18           7.41
4                              7.72            7.51          11.32
5                             10.45           10.10          15.95
6                             13.50           13.00          21.30
Source: Government of Egypt.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
D. Birth Rates for Selected Cities, 1960-1967
Cities                                       Birth Rates
(1960-64)    1965    1966    1967
Cairo                             44.6       39.3    35.8    33.4
Alexandria                        40.3       36.5    36.5    34.0
Tanta                             42.1       36.4    36.3    31.9
Mansoura                          39.5       35.9    32.2    31.9
Zagazig                           40.9       41.2    34.7    32.4
Giza                              47.0       38.2    34.5    33.2
Assiut                            45.7       42.5    37.4    36.1
Source:   Executive Board, Supreme Council for Family Planning,
Pre-appraisal Information for Implementing Family
Planning by Improvement of Health Services, May 30,
1971.



1L1EEX 3
Page 1 of 12
Arab Republic of Egypt:  The Probable Size and Age
Structure of the Population, 1970-201)
Introduction
1.        This annex makes use of two projections of Egypt's future
population in order to see what the future may look like. The low
(or optimistic) estimate is represented by projection A; a high (or
pessimistic) estimate is given by projection B. In addition to
establishing the range within which total future population size is
likely to fall, the projections provide information about the future
age structure of the population. These projections provide esti-
mates, at various points in the future, of the probable numbers of
school-age children, of youths entering the labor force, and of
women in the reproductive years. The purpose is not to try to decide
which of the two estimates is the more likely outcome, but rather a more
cautious one of establishing a reasonable range of probable future
values. One can then see how much difference it will make if the
future lies closer to one side of the range than to the other.
2.        The data present are taken from a monograph by
Dr. Tomas Frejka of the Population Council.2/ Although Frejka's
projections look ahead for a century or more, we have generally used
an arbitrary cut-off date of 2015, roughly 45 years ahead. Each
projection is based on the same assumptions about future declines in
mortality; 2  the projections differ only in their assumptions about
future fertility trends.
3.        Both projections assume that a net reproduction rate (NRR)
of 1 is in fact reached. This is the situation in which, on the
average, only one daughter would be born and survive over the repro-
ductive life of each woman. When this state is reached, the popula-
tion will (a) eventually stop growing (but only after two or three
generations), and (b) will then actually decline and flatten out in
a stationary state somewhat below its historic peak.
4.        Projection A assumes that a NRR of 1 is reached about 30
years from now (in the year 2000); however, population would continue
growing until 2075. Projection B assumes that a NRR of 1 is reached
only by the year 2045, with population growth continuing until 2120.
1/  Source:  Tomas Frejka, "Alternatives of World Population Growth,"'
monograph in process cf publication.
2/ For the mortality assumptions, Dr. Frejka has applied the
Coale-Demeny model life tables using available information on
mortality in order to select the model most appropriate for Egypt
(in this case: the West model). Female life expectancy is assumed
to rise by 2-1/2 years per quinquennium until the level of 57.5 is
reached (1980-85). Thereafter, as life expectancy becomes higher,
gains per 5-year period are increasingly smaller until a life
expectancy of 68 years is attained in 2010-15.



?age 2 of 12
Projection B would probably reflect the situation in which a slow
decrease of fertility would occur as a result of general socio-
economic development and the present modest scale of family planning
acceptance (Tables 1 & 2).
Size of Future Population
5.        In terms of total population the difference between pro-
jections A and B is dramatic (Table 3). If fertility can be reduced
in the way projection  A assumes, Eegyt's population by the year 2000
will have reached a total of 62.    million and will, have doubled its
present size by the year 2005,  Under this projection the population
will reach its maximum size of 94.1 million by the end of the next
century, after which a decline will set in. However, maximum growth
of population in absolute numbers will occur between 1985 and 1995
when, on average, well over a million people will be added annually
to the existing number. About 1995, the annual increment will con-
tinuously decrease, until it finally becomes negative and the total
starts to decrease, as mentioned above.
6.        Projection B is far more gloomy:  in less than 30 years
the population will be 74 million, more than double its present size.
The average annual growth rate will be dropping more slowly so that
the population will exceed the 100 million mark (triple its present
size) urometime between 2010 and 2015. In view of the already high
density prevailing in Egypt, a tripling of population over the next
hO years would present social and economic problems for which
solutions are difficult to imagine today. The average size of
agricultural land-holdings would fall quite drastically, making it
difficult or impossible to maintain present family incomes. Further
rapid urbanization would be inevitable, with its heavy investment
requirements. Pressure on the education system would mount, making
reduction of illiteracy more difficult. Unemployment would almost
certainly become a much more difficult problem than it is today.
7.        This second projection, which assumes only a moderate drop
from present fertility levels, shows population growth continuing to
a maximum figure of more than 213 million inhabitants about 2125.
Under this projection population growth acquires impressive propor-
tions: more than a million persons will be added yearly by 1975-60.
This annual increment would double over the following generation
(by 2010-15). Maximum population growth of 2.3 million per year
would occur about 2025 after which the annual addition would start to
decline.  Population would continue growing, however, until 'he year
2125. Only thereafter will the absolute number start its decline
towards its final "steady-state" level.
8.        It should be borne in mind, of course, that this is a
hypothetical case, although it iMs based on assumptions thaw cawnnot be
ruled out. Hopefully in the 150 years ahead changes in tecir=ology
and in personal attitudes will prevent the country from ever reaching
that difficult-to-imagine situation. Nevertheless, this hypothetical



,k,EX
Page 3 of 12
case could easily occur if ideas of child spacing and family-size
limitation are not more widely accepted in the future.
The Future Age Structure
9.        Table 4 shows the changing age-structure in both projections.
It ha8 been pointed out agdn and again that a young age structure (a
high percentage of persons under 15 years) imposes heavy burdens on
the governments of developing countries. For example, the school-age
population will grow rapidly and require extraordinary amounts of
scarce resources, health provisions will not be met adequately, and
the number of persons of working age will be relatively few in com-
parison with those below or beyond that age, thus causing a high
dependency ratio.
10.       Under the assumptions of projection A, the situation will
improve rapidly: where at present the dependent population is
almost as large as the producing population (i.e., a dependency ratio
of .86); by the year 2015 every seven persons of productive age will
have to support only three dependents (a ratio of 0.44).  If, however,
population trends would follow projection B, by the same year every
six working persons will still have, on the average, about four
persons to support (a ratio of 0.68). For illustrative purposes
present dependency ratios for some developed (older populations) and
developing (younger populations) countries follow: France (1968)
0.59, Sweden (1969) 0.52, United Kingdom (1970) 0.58, Mexico (1970)
1.00, and Philippines (1968) 0.98.
11.       Undoubtedly, however, the dependency ratio in both
Egyptian projections is bound to go up once it has reached its mini-
mum value. This occurs because the group of elderly persons will
increase steadily as fertility goes down: the population grows older.
In terms of economics, the higher dependency ratio under this situa-
tion is less disadvantageous than the one under present circumstances
because the people over 64 years of age will require smaller economic
inmestments than an equal number of young people.
Future School-Age Population 1'
12.       Another important implication of population growth is the
effort necessary to educate future generations. Table 5 shows how
the school-age population will increase under the alternative pro-
jections presented.
1/ Primary school age designated as children 6-11 years; secondary
school age as 12-17 years.



ANEX 3
page 4 of 12
13.       Under projection B the total school-age population will
have doubled before the end of the century; 15 years later, it will
be three times its present size. These increases would reflect
average annual growth rates of about 2.5%. From Table 5 it is clear
that the secondary school-age population will increase faster than
the primary, reflecting the initial impact of the slowly declining
fertility on the younger age groups.
14.       The fact that today not all school-age children are
enrolled in school makes the future burden on the copntry even
greater:  provieion has to be made for a future school population
which not only increases because of population growth but also
because of pressure to increase the enrollment ratio (in 1968 at
about 83% for primary school-age boys and 55% for girls, and 40% for
secondary school-age boys and 20% for girls).
15.       It is obvious that the population growth of projection A
would greatly ease the educational burden. To start with, the
present number of school-age population will never double, much less
triple as under projection B. Maximum numbers in this bracket of
the population will be reached around the turn of the century with
primary and secondary school populations of around 8 nillion each.
(This is an increase of 68% over the present situation, representing
an annual growth rate of about 1.7%, which should permit Government
to accommodate not only population growth but higher enrollment
ratios as well). Although aggregates will fluctuate in the first
half of the next century, the general trend will be downward and
added capacity just to take care of expanding school populations
should no longer be necessary.
Annual Entrants to the Labor Force
16.       The future picture of people entering the labor market is
similar to that seen for the school-age population, since this group
is defined here, somewhat arbitrarily, as people reaching age 15.
The estimates are admittedly crude as not all boys and girls of 15
years enter the labor market. Some will postpone starting to work
because of additional years of education. Others, mainly girls,
never enter the labor market as they marry and pursue household
activities only. It must, however, be anticipated that those who go
on in school beyond the age of 15 only postpone their quest for a
job and will present themselves sooner or later on the market.
Another feature to be borne in mind is that female labor participation
is likely to inarease so that an even higher percentage of the
15-year-old girls will enter the labor market. Granting that not all
the 15-year-olds are now demanding a Job, the general conclusions are
vaLid: the number looking for a job under projection B would at
least acv.ble before the year 2000 and would at least triple before
2015 (Table 6" Again, the gap between A and B does not become large
until after 2000; in Uhat year projection B shows only 10% more job-
hunters than A but only 15 years later the difference is 60%.



MMNEX 3
Page 3of 12
Women in the Reproductive Age Group (15-44)
17.       The effect of falling fertility is felt much later in
this age group than in the school-age population or persons entering
the labor market. That is why, up to the year 2000, the differences
in projection A and projection B may seem not very important but as
time goes on the diffwences rapidly become much greater (see Fig. 1,
frontispiece). Thus, by the year 2015 there are 30% more women in
the reproductive ages in projection B than in projection A (Table 7).
The more time that goes by before efforts in family planning are
stepped up, the more difficult the task of controlling the annual
increment in the country's population.



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 12
Table 1
Basic Demographic Measures for
Selected Time Periods 1965 - 2015:  Projection A
Female  Female  Total   Gross    Net       Female
Crude   Crude   Fertil- Repro-  Repro-  Expecta-
Birth  Death   ity      duction  duction  tion of Life
Period      Rate    Rate    Rate    Rate      Rate     at Birth
1965-1970    43.4    15.9    6.14    3.00      2.21     50.0
1970-1975    39.3    13.9    5.59    2.73      2.09     52.5
1975-1980    35.8    12.1    5.04    2.46      1.96     55.0
1980-1985    32.9    10.6    4.49   2.19       1.80     57.5
1985-1990    30.3     9.6   3.94    1.92       1.62     59.5
1990-1995    27.2     8.8    3.39    1.65      1.43     61.5
1995-2000    23.4     8.1    2.83    1.38      1.22     63.5
2000-2005    19.3     7.7    2.28    1.11      1.00     65.0
2005-2010    19.2     7.6    2.25    1.10      1.00     66.5
2010-2015    18.7     7.6    2.21    1.08      1.00     68.0
Source:  Tomas  Frejka op. cit.



ANNEX 
Page 7 of 12
Table 2
Basic Demographic Measures for
Selected Time Periods 1965 - 2015: Projection B
Female  Female  Total  Gross   Net        Female
Crude  Crude   Fertil- Repro-  Repro-  Expecta-
Birth   Death   ity     duction  duction  tion of Life
Period      Rate   Rate    Rate    Rate      Rate     at Birth
1965-1970    43.4    15.9    6.14    3.00     2.21     50.0
1970-1975    41.1   14.0   5.88    2.87       2.20     52.5
1975-1980    39.2   12.3    5.61    2.74      2.18     55.0
1980-1985    37.8   10.8    5.34    2.61      2.14     57.5
1985-1990    36.7     9.7    5.07    2.47     2.09     59.5
1990-1995    35.5     8.8    4.81   2.34      2.03     61.5
1995-2000    33.9    7.8    4.54    2.21      1.96     63.5
2000-2005    32.4     7.2    4.27    2.08     1.87     65.0
2005-2010    30.4     6.7    4.00    1.95     1.78     66.5
2010-2015    28.6     6.3    3.74    1.82     1.69     68.0
Source: Tomas Frejk, 2p. cit.



ANNEX 3
of 12
Table 3
Projected Total Population and Average Annual Growth Rates
Projection A                Projection B
Average Annual              Average Annual
Year       Population     Growth Rate    Population  Growth Rate
(thouseand#-)     M%          (thousands)      (%M
1970          33,500          2.75           33,500        2.75
1975          37,900          2.54           38,300        2.71
1980          42,700          2.37           43,700        2.69
1985          417,600         2.23           49,900        2.70
1990          52,800          2.06           57,000        2.70
1995          57,800          1.84           65,100        2.68
2000          62,400          1.54           74,000        2.61
2005          66,100          1.16           83,700        2.50
2010          70,000          1.16           94,100        2.37
2015          73,900          1.11          105,100        2.24
Source: Tomas Frejka, op. cit.



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 12
Table 4
Age Structure of Projected Population
for Selected Years (1970-2015)
and Corresponding Dependency Ratio (percentages)
Year          Age Group          Projection A        Projection B
1970            0 - 14               42.8                42.8
15 - 64               53.8                53.8
65 +                   3.4      .          3.4
Dependency ratio                        .86                 .86
1985            0 - 14                39.3                42.2
15 - 64               57.1                54.4
65 +                   3.6                 3.4
Dependency ratio                        .75                 .84
2000            0 - 14                32.2                40.0
15 - 64               63.5                56.4
65 +                   4.3                 3.6
Dependency ratio                        .57                 .77
2015            0 - 14                24.8                36.3
15 - 64               69.4                59.6
65 +                   5.8                 4.1
Dependency ratio                        .44                 .68
Source: Tomas Frejka, 2p. cit.



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 12
Table 5
School-Age Population 6-11 and 19-17, 1970-2015
(thousands)
Projection A             _        Projection B
Total                         Total
6-11      12-17   6-17          6-11    12-17   6-17
Years     Years   Years         Years   Years   Years
1970    5,247.4  4,326.5  9,573.9      5,247.4  4,326.5  9,573.9
1985    7,277.1  6,782.6 14,059.7      8,019.5  6,927.7 14,947.2
2000    8,170.1  7,921.1 16,091.2    11,409.0  9,795.8 21,203.8
2015    7,160.6  7,276.1 14.,436.7    14,921.7 13,550.7 28,472.4
Source: Estimates based on Tomas Frejka,o. cit.



ANNEX I
Page 11 of 12
Table 6
Entrances in Labor Force
Projection A           Projection B
1970                          708.6                   708.6
1985                        1.,127.3                1,140.2
2000                        1,315.3                 1,1608.6
2015                        1,230.6 2b,242.1
Source: Estimates based on TomUas Frejka, op. cit.



ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 12
Table 7
Women in Reproductive Ages(15 - 44) for
Selected Years 1970 - 2015
(thousands)
Projection A           Projection B
1970                       7,142                   7,142
1985                      10,845                  10,864
2000                      15,639                  16,673
2015                      18,624                  24,532
Source: Estimates based on.Tomas Frejka, op. cit.



A NarNEx 4
Page I o 4 1
Arab Republic of Egypt: Number of Population Per Selected Health
Facilities, July 1970.
REalth Offices
Total Rsaltb Population  and Unita          Population
Population  Offices and  (thousands) Providing WMH   (thoucands)
Governorates      (thousanda) Units          Per Unit    Services          Per Unit
Cairo               41,961          56          88.6           33             150.3
Alexardria           2,032          25          81.3           17             119.5
Port-Said              313           5          62.6            2             156.5
Isauilia               395          20          19.8           16              21*.7
Suez                   315           9          35.0            9              3' 0
Damietta               172         141          11.5           40              11.8
Dakahlia             2,1*92        198          12.6          193              12. '
Sharkia              2,3bh1        175          13 .1         167              11.(
Qalubijvd            1,379          92          15.0           91              15.2
Kafr-El-Sheikb       1,234          96          12.9           914             13.1
Oharbia              2,080         128          16.3          124              16.8
Menufia              1,529         120          12.7          118              13.0
Behera               2,215         181          12.0          184*              2.0
Giza                 1,9314         96          19.7           88              22.0
Fayum                1;008          83          12.1           81              12.14
Beni-Susif             977         110           8.9          109               9.0
Menia                1,813         186           9.7          184                9.9
Assiut               1,4*87        103          )-.1          100              1L.9
Suhag                1,761*        123          14*.3         11?               15.1
Qena                 1,559         108          11.14         106              11*.7
Aswan                  651          80           8.1           79               8.2
Matruh              )    -          17              -          13
1-Wadi El-Gadid   )    -            114            -           1                   -
Red Sea             ) 375            9          41.7            6              62.5
S ina i                 .,0        . 0 0          .      .     . . ..
Total            33,329       2,080          16.0        1,985              16.8
Source: Ministry of Public Health, Departmt of Statistics.






ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt:  Medical and Paramedical Manpower Available, 1969-1970
Health Personnel          1969                     1970
Total         MPH    T6tal            MPH
Physicians      15,236        6,530     16,219        10,285
Prof. Midwives   2,281        1,077      2,305         1,251
Ass. Midwives    8,081        7,229      8,749         7,416
Prof. Nurses     2,572        1,245      3,050         1,661
Ass. Nurses     15,365        4,644     15,870         5,330
Reg. "Dayas"     4,202-         -        4,202-          -
Medical Social  not avail-      500   not avail-         560
Workers        able                  able
1/ Last registration
Source: Ministry of Health.






ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
Arab Republic of Egypt: The Reorganization of Nurse Training
1.        Until October 1972 nursing personnel in Egypt were prepared by
the following types of educational programs:
a. a four-year curriculum leading to a Bachelor's Degree in nursing;
b. a three-year curriculum leading to a diploma in nursing; and
c. an eighteen-month curriculum for the preparation of assistant
nurses and assistant midwives.
2.        In order to speed up the production of quality nurses, a new
nursing education scheme was formulated to increase the number
and standard of diploma nurses and, through the development of a program
which blends three years of general education with three years of nursing
education, to ensure the eligibility for higher education of its graduates
who show potential for further professional development.
3.        The establishment of 141 schools-- Secondary Technical Nursing
Schools-- each attached to a hospital with at least 90 beds for clinical
practice with a total intake of 6,000 students per year, involved the
absorption of the 33 diploma nursing schools and 27 assistant-nurse
schools and the setting up of 81 new ones.y/
4S.       The implementation of the new nursing education program started
in October 1972 with 5,200 students. The students are given stipends
during the school years and for this they are bound to work in the rural
health centers for three years after graduation.  This category is expected
to make the largest contributions to nursing care in Egypt and other Arab-
speaking countries.
5.        A pilot project was set up as a branch of the Technical Health
Institute of Alexandria in which 100 candidates after completion of full
secondary education will attend a two-year near-University level course
for the diploma of general nursing. This program is under the responsibility
of the Ministry of Health and is beirg developed with the cooperation of
members of the Faculty of the Higher Institute of Nursing, University of
Alexandria. If the experiment proves successful there will be an exten-
sion of the project throughout the Arab Republic of Egypt. Built into
this program is the possibility for promising graduates to proceed to
higher education in nursing.
6.        At present there are two Higher Tnstitutes of Nirsing.  In the future
two more Institutes will be established (one of which will be within
the Assiut University) with the purpose of increasing the number of
graduates from 200 to 600 per year.
1/ Plans are to continue the assistant-midwife training until such time
when it will be possible to replace this category with graduates from
the new program.



6
?age 2 of 2
7.       Family Planning 's being taught in Institutes and Schools of
Nursing as a block of approximately twelve hours incorporated with Maternal
and Child Health Nursing. However, nursing education programs in general
do not adequately provide in their curricula for the kind of learning ex-
periences needed if the students are to accept family planning as an integral
part of their future professional life and also as a means of ataining a
fuller personal life as young women, future wives and mothers.
8.       It becomes essential that nursing faculty be oriented or re-
oriented to new and better knowledge and practices so that they vrill
be better equipped in educating fature nurses to be responsive to the
needs of the country. Leaders in the health services consider that to
attain the quantity and quality of nursing demanded by the country
provision must be made to prepare nurses beyond the baaic level so as
to produce sufficiently qualified nurses to carry on teaching functions
in nursing schools and health services, to plan, administer and supervise
preventive and curative services and to staff the clinical specialities.
9.       In Egypt exists an urgent need for nursing teachers, adminis-
trators and expert practitioners, all of them with sound knowledge of
population dynamics and family health. However, it is an oversimplifi-
cation to look upon short-courses as a means to provide future teachers,
administrators and expert practitioners. Short-courses in teaching have
been offered in the country since 1965 but these, as it is known, have
not prepared teachers with the qualifications required for the ultimate
success of the plan for the establishment of post-basic Training Centers
and for all schools for nursing. A qualified teacher (to mention only
some of the requirements) should have sufficient grasp of the biological
and social sciences basic to health care, of teaching methodology and
technology in education, curriculum planning, development and evaluation
as well as in-depth understanding of the field of nursing she is expected
to teach. All of these cannot be mastered in a short period of tim by
diploma nurses who, in general, lack sufficiently broad general education
and professional background to provide the foundation on which to build
advanced preparation. With this in view, the Ministry of Health requested
the assistance of the Bank for the establishment of post-basic nursing
courses.



ANNEX 7
Page I.of 1
Arab Republic of Eg7pt:  Levels, Number and Output of Institutes and
Schools of Nursing, 1972 Y
Institute                               Duration3 Total
or            Number Admission          of     Output     Certificate
School                   Requirement   Study      Per Year;  Qualification
Higher Inst.             High School   4 years j 200         Bachelor of Science
Nursing            2     Certificate                         Nursing
Diploma                  Preparatory   3 years   700         Diploma of
Nursing Schools   33     School Cert.                        Nuirsing
Schools for
Assistant                Preparatory  18 months  403         Assistant Nurse
Nurses            27     School Cert.                         (Certificate)
Schools for              Preparatory  18 monthsl 415         Assistant Midwive
Assistant                School Cert.                         (Certificate)
Midwives          17
% Dr. G. Khallof, Director, Institute Health, Ministry of Health, 1972.






ANI=EX
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt:  Indicators of Family Planning Programa
Number of females 15-44
1972 estimate                                        7,392,000
Proportion married                                   4,924,000
Current family planning acceptors as
percentage of married population                        13-14%
Current family planning acceptors by method  /
Oral Contraceptives
program (govt. units plus voluntary agencies)        434,000
private (pharmacies)                                 140 000
IUDs
program )                                              70,000 2/
private )
Other
program                                               34,000
Total All Methods                                      678,000
1971 budget of Executive Board,
Supreme Council for Family Planning
Government                                     US$ 2,500,000 3-/
UNFPA                                              1,250,000
3,750,000
Clinical Facilities
active clinics                                          3,017
mobile units                                              none
private pharmacies                                       2,000
private doctor's clinics                              unknown
1/ Based on current acceptors as of July 1972.
2/ Estimate, making allowance for discontinuations since start of
the program.
3/ Does not include services contributed by other ministries, e.g.,
base salaries for personnel in the program.
Sources Adapted from data provided by the Board, Supreme Council
for Family Planning.






ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt:
Increase of Family Planning Acceptors by Region and Method
June 1970 - June 1971; July 1971 - July 1972
Oral Contraceptives                IUD Insertions
June      June   Percent        June       June   Percent
Governorates      1970      1971   Increase        1970      1971   Increase
Urban          129,414   133,062       2.8        1,829     2,844      55.4
Lower          125,422   161,954      29.1        1,055     1,253      18.7
Upper           52,663    63,607      20.7          502       527       4.9
Total        307,499   358,623      16.6        3,386     4,624      36.5
Oral Contraceptives                IUD Insertions
July      July   Percent        July       July   Percent
Governorates      1971      1972   Increase        1971      1972   Increase
Urban          150,576   164,079       9.0        2,894     3,982      37.6
Lower          162,060   190,401      17.5        1,496      2,014     34.6
Upper           67,769    79,146      16.8          579        725     25.2
Total        380,405   433,626      14.0        4,969     6,721      35.3
Source: Service Statistics, Board, Supreme Council for Family Planning.



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt: Distribution of Oral Contraceptive c_ptors by Area
July, L972
Urban                                                         Rural
Married                                                       Married
Total    Active Units   Women        Acceptors               Total    Active Units   Women          Acceptors  _
Covernorates        Units    No.  __%          15-44      No.      >e             Units    No.       %        15-44     No. _
Cairo               221        216   82.8    711,929  109,415  15.4                 -         -      -         -
Alexandria          101         99   98.0    279,765   50,659  18.1                  -        -      -         -
Port-Said            14          7   50.0      42,428    3,695   8.7                -         -      -         -                 _
Isamilia             24         20   83.3      47,503       310   0.7               -         -      -         -          -
Suez                 25         21   84.0      18,381    7,347  40.0                41        41   100.0    50,826    6,208  12.2
Damietta             77         64   83.1       74,750   22,054  29.5              193       193   100.0   288,997   16,236   5.6
Dakahlia             53         52   98.1      65,687   15,952  24A3               191       177    92.7   290,292   10,576   3.6
Sharkia              42         42  100.0      65,040   12,933  19.9                95        94    98.9   141,127    7,448   5.3
Qalubiya             34         31   91.2      35,719    6,892  19.3               131       129    98.5   182,706   10,265   5.6
Kafr-El-Sheikh       61         50   82.0      96,470   23,184  24.0               125       125   100.0   208,993   14,815   7.1
Gharbia              31         29   93.5      33,260    7,050  21.2               116       116   100.0   141,673    6,979   4.9
Menufia               77        69   89.6      65,670   13,459  20.5               181       171    94.5   256,220    7,400   2.9
Behera               18         15   83.3      30,006    1,000   3.3                14        13    92.9    30,673         603   2.0
Giza                 52         49   94.2    111,468   20,109  18.0                105       103    98.1   189,320    8,223   4.3
Fayum                26         26  100.0      34,085    4,460  13.1               105       105   100.0   124,893    2,558   2.0
Beni-Sueif           34         34  100.0      33,419    4,061  12.2               115       113    98.3   118,373    1,979   1.7
Menia                51         44   86.3      56,467    5,841  10.3               183       183   100.0   230,152    8,500   3.7
Assiut               45         41   91.1      51,665    4,086   7.9               104       101    97.1   166,270    2,135   1.3
Suhag                53         52   98.1      51,660    5,011  9g7                114       114   100.0   207,880    1,671   0.8
Qena                 29         27   93.1      47,896    2,665   5.6               115       112    97.4   204,606    2,645   1.3
Aswan                28         27   96.4      37,382    2,233   6.0                83        71    85.5    66,285         475   0.7
Matruh               25         13   52.0       12,708      576   4.5               -         -      -         -          -      -
El-Wadi El-Gadid    19          19  100.0       9,336    1,418  15.2                -
Red Sea               13         9   69.2       4,646       500  10.8               -         -      _                    _
Sinai                -          -      -        7,664       -      _                -         -      -         -         -       -
Total          1,153      1,056   91.6  2,024,964  324,910  16.0              2,011    1,961    97.5 2,899,286  108,716   3.7
Source: NFPB, Service Statistics Report, July, 1972 (adapted).



Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt:  Distribution of IUD Acceptors, by Governorate
Cumulative             July 1972
IUD             IUD                         Total
Governorates           Insertions 1/   Insertions   Reinsertions Y Insertions
Cairo                     78,239          2,346          53            80,585
Alexandria                59,121          1,636           14           60,757
Po t-Said                    528              -           -               528
Isamilia                    197                                           19?
Suez                      1,454              20            _            1,4714
Damietta                   9,344            134            -            9,478
Dakahlia                 12,952             284           29           13,236
Sharkia                   6,232             201            -            6,1433
Qalubiya                 15,108             353            -           159461
Kafr-El-Sheikh           15,170             204            1           15,374
Gharbia                  10,283             285                        10,568
Menufia                   17,756            533            1           18,289
Behera                       1421             -            -              421
Giza                     16a275             513            2           16,788
Fayum                      3,198             63            -            3,261
Beni-Sueif                2o,090             17            -            2,107
Menia                      2,877             48            2            2,925
Assiut                    5,871              71            -            5,942
Suhag                      1,1145             -            _            1,145
Qena                        142               5            -              447
Aswan                      1,042              -            -            1,042
Matruh                        65              4                            69
El-Wadi E1-Gadid              99              4            -              103
Red Sea                                        _ 
Sinai                         80              -            -               80
All Country Totals      259,989           6,721          102          266,710
j Since start of program (June 1966).
/ Not included in total.
Source: Service Statistics, July 1972,Board, Supreme Council for Family Planning.



ANNEX 12
Page 1 oi 1
Arab Repuolic of Bgypt: Types of Polyclinics and Specialities Represented
I.  Rural and Urban Polyclinicx
"Core" specializations availables
1.  Surgery
2.  Internal Medicine
3.  Gynecology & Midwifery
4.  Pediatrics
5.  Ophthalmology
6.  Dentistry
II. District Polyclinics
All specializations available at Rural/Urban Polyclinicsi in additions
7. Dermatology & Venereology
8.  Ear, Nose and Throat
9.  Diagnostic X-ray
10. Preventive Medicine
III. Governorate Polyclinics
All specializations available at District Polyclinics; in addition:
11. Chest
12. Cardiology
13. Neurology
14.  Psychiatry
15. Endocrinology
16. Physical Therapy
17. Orthopedics
18. Urology
19. Heart & Chest Surgery
20. Cancer
21. Plastic Surgery
22. Pediatric Surgery
23. Therapeutic X-ray



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
Arab Republic of Egypt: Internal Organization of the NFPB
The Chairman (Top Executive Officer)
Offices                                                    Units
A. Responsible Directly to Chairmn
1.  Planning and Programming                                    Planning
Programming
2.  Statistics and Evaluation                                   Data Collection
Statistics Processing
Evaluation
3.   Scientific Research                                        Medical
Demographic
Social
Econodic
Theological
Legal
Operations
4.  Information and Communication                                Information
Media
5.   Training                                                    Internal
External
Library
B. Responsible to Chairman through the Executive Director
6.  Field Operations                                             Government Units
Private Units
7.  Finance                                                     Accounting
Budget
Auditing
Purchasing and Storage
8.   Administration                                             Personnel
Secretariat
Services



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
Executive Committee: The Under Secretaries of State for:
Public Health
Social Affairs
Information
Planning
Higher Education
Wakf
Local Administration
Statistics and Mobilisation Agency
ASU
Advisory Committees have been appointed or planned in the following fields:
Medical
Social
Theological
Information
Information Media and Demography
General
Educational



ANNEX 1!
Page 1 of 4
Arab Republic of Egypt:  The NFPB's Budget:  FY 1971 and FY 19721/
FY 1971              FY 1972
Item 1   Bonuses and Fees             LE 124,000           LE 124,000
Item 2   Raw Materials and Subsidies   750,000                750,000
Item 3   Fuel and Oil                      8,000               12,000
Item 4   Spare Parts and Equipment         2,000                2,000
Item 5   Books and Stationary              2,000                2,000
Item 6   Water and Light                   3,000                3,000
Item 7   Furniture, Printing, and
Office Equipment                5,000                 3,000
Item 8   Maintenance                       2,000                2,000
Item 9   Research                            500                1,000
Item 10 Advertising, Publication,
and Public Relations          115,000               112,500
Item 11  Transport and Communications   12,000                 10,000
Item 12  Other Services                   35,000              131,500
Item 13  Rental of Computer                 --                  6,000
Item 14 Fee for Management Consultant
("ARAC" Arabic Research and
Administrative Committee)         --                 47,300
Item 15  Rents                             5,000                5,000
Total                LE 1,064,000         LE 1,164,000
1/  To be read in connection with attached notes which are numbered according
to the corresponding budget line.



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 4
This covers only the 30% bonus payments made to the Board staff
in Cairo and. the Governorates.  The salaries of these staff members,
nunibring about 164,, have until now been the responsibility of the_minis-
rifLs to whom the various staff members belong. All personnel severed
their connections with the ministries and entered a career service with
the Board whose budget was increased to carry these additional costs, this
adds something like LE 330,000 to the Boardts budget. This item also covers
leas for members of the Board's committees attending official meetings both
.n C-aiiro and in the field (e.g., each Governor's Committee on Family Planning,
'^rli-Lch meets monthly, plus the Tbard's advisory committees which meet in Cairo).
:ncentive payments to doctors and other staff for IUD insertions also come out
of b-cis item, but not any of the other incentive payments, which are entirely
Linarceed from the sale of contraceptive supplies.
2)        This large item is not broken down by category.  In effect, it
represents the annual cost of contraceptive supplies required by the Govern-
ment Drogram (i.e., excluding the important amounts sold through pharmacies).
Probably 80-90% of the cost of supplies is represented by pills, which are
manufaclured locally from imported raw materials. The Board does not re-
cover any revenue from the sale of contraceptives, since total proceeds are
redistributed to clinic staffs in the form of incentive payments.
Costs of supplies distributed through private channels (mainly
phazmacies) are not included. The budgeted amount included about LE 200,000
-n  1971 on raw materials for pill manufacture; this is a large item whose
cost is rising.  About LE 200,000 in domestic currency is required for sub-
sidies to the manufacturing company. The item is not financed 100% from the
Government's budget and general foreign exchange reserves: e.g. in both FY
1971 and 1972 approximately LE 170,000 (US$ 400,000) was made available by
the UNFPA for the purchase of contraceptives supplies and raw materials. This
represented only about 20% of the total cost of contraceptive supplies (foreign
plus domestic) used in the Government program alone, i.e., the Government pro-
gram has total supply costs of about LE 680,000. In FY 1971 the Government
had to supplement the foreign exchange made available through the UNFPA assis-
tance (i.e., US$ 400,000) with about LE 50,000 (US$ 120,000) of its own re-
sources.
3)        For transport only.  The FY 1971 figure proved inadequate; at the
end of the third quarter in FY 1972 the current figure appeared inadequate.
4)        This covers vehicles only, i.e., 75 vehicles owned by the Board and
stationed in the 25 Governorates, plus three cars and three motorcycles at-
tached to the Board's headquarters. The current amount is inadequate and the
Board hopes to finance the cost overrun by drawing on the UNFPA grant.
5)        This amount is considered very low; it is hoped but not certain that
UNFP/. will help with the purchase of books from IPPF.



ANNEX
Page 3 of 4
6)        This figure is considered adequate.
7)        Uonsidered adem1-ate.  A' ne-sw buiding (for train    c niLy?-
e  ec^ted tc be furnished by Dani il assistance.
8)        This covers vehicles, buildings, and office machines.  The figure
is considered too low and should be about LE 5,000.
9)        This activity is just starting and will have to be sharply in-
creased. A figure of LE 10,000 may be needed in FY 1973. The UNFPA funds
may be useable here.
10)       This covers communications and information activities.  The UNFPA
Agreement covers only LE 21,000 (US$ 50,000).
11)       Covers international travel including fares and per diems when out
of the country. The FY 1972 amount was nearly exhausted by January 31.
12)       LE 100,000 of the FY 1972 figure represents the Egyptian Govern-
ment's contribution to UNFPA. This is to be an annual contribution. The
remainder covers acceptor incentives, exhibitions, local conferences, and
training courses. The amount is considered inadequate.
13)       The amount is adequate for present uses.
14)       This covers a proposed eight month's study of the Boardl;D
organization and procedures. There was some doubt whether or not this con-
tract would be signed.
15)       This covers office accommodations, the rental of a few cars, and the
garaging of vehicles. It is considered adequate.
Funding and Flexibility of the Budget
1.        The preceding budget represents the Boardts budget as shown under
expenditures of the Presidency.  It is not clear to what extent the 1971
JNFPA Agreement, which will supply approximately US$ 2 million annuai"y
to Egypt over a period. of four years, will be additive to the Board's pre-
sent scale of expenditure or will provide relief to the GovernMent by
serving as a source of funding for carrying on present activities. The
UNFPA funds will probably be used in both ways, i.e., they will permit an
expansion of activities without requiring increased domestic expenditures
above the levels budgeted for FY 1972, at least for the next two or three
years, and because the grant is payable in foreign exchange, it will re-
lieve the Government of most or all foreign exchange costs.  At present,
the Board. is submitting certain past expenditures in FY 1972 to various of
the U.N. executing agencies under the UNFPA Agreement to see whether or
not the agencies will reimburse the Board from UNFPA resources.



ANNEXL
Page 4 of 4
2.        In recent years the Board has spent about 80% of its authorized
budget. The Treasury reportedly credits a bank account of the Board with
the latter's full budget figure at the start of each fiscal year (the
foreign exchange component is credited semiannually). These arrangements
make ordering and payments easy, at least in terms of the availability of
funds for the Government program. (The availability of foreign exchange
for the import of supplies needed for the private sector apparently works
much less smoothly.)
3.        Trust or Treasury rules permit the transfer of funds among budget
categories, provided the Board first secures Treasury permission.



Page 1 of 5
Arab Republic of Eat:  A Sector Revnew;
of the National Family Planning Program
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Participation rate attained: In its first six years of life
the Egyptian program has achieved a participation rate of 11-12%; this
is the proportion of married couples using some form of modern birth
control. Such a figure is in the middle range of countries with pro-
grams of comparable age; this is a creditable performance considering
the loss of momentum occasioned by the events of 1967. However, pre-
sent achievement levels are far below those needed to attain the Govern-
ment's population objectives. Despite the spread of family planning in
the past six years, the number of couples not practicing family planning
is still increasing.
ii.       The need to extend family planning services beyond the periph-
eral health-service units: Egypt already has a fairly extensive and
well-staffed network of health-service units of various kinds. The
family planning program relies primarily on this network, which it has
utilized well. However, the health delivery system has limitations in
reaching large numbers and the family planning program is constrained
by these 3tructural limitations of the health system. The program's pre-
sent ability to recruit and motivate women into becoming acceptors depends
almost entirely on the willingness and ability of women to come to health
facilities. There is at present no effective field structure to .ake fa-
mily planning services into peoples' homes. (The ANMs are not now able
to do this with any effectiveness.)
a.   Any significant increase in acceptors would seem
to require a system of "taking services to the peo-
ple instead of relying on people coming to the ser-
vices." Whether this can be accomplished by mounting
family planning house-to-house campaigns, by restruc-
turing the occupational roles of paramedical person-
nel, by reconsidering the role of the daya, by adding
new cadres of social workers to act as motivators and
recruiters, by providing more transport or by a com-
bination of these measures is not yet clear. What is
clear is that the present "passive" approach to re-
cruitment is insufficient.
b.   The recommended next step is to design one or more
experimental field structures -- i.e., new cadres of
home-visiting personnel with well-defined responsi-
bilities for health educatior, and family planning.
At least two urban and two rural pilot projects should
be designed and tried out during the next two years.
The Executive Board will need outside assistance --
Egyptian and foreign -- to design such experiments.
iii.      Making greater use of the private commercial sector:  There
appear to be important opportunities to make greater use of the com-
mercial distribution system. This offers a ready-made distribution net-
work at much lower cost than through health-service facilities. Pill



Page 2 of 5
distribution should probably be restricted to pharmacies (plus home
delivery by authorized home visitors), but other supplies (e.g. con-
doms, foams, and jellies) should be offered through other types of
outlets (e.g. barber shops, street peddlers, atar shops, and tobacco-
nists). To achieve the greater market penetration we believe possible,
an increase in the financial incentives to shopkeepers wiil probably be
necessary and will require subsidies. Specific promotional campaigns
should be prepared by commercially-experienced distribution organiza-
tions, including the preparation of one or more pilot projects.
iv.       Strengthening of training activities: 'While considerable pro-
gress has been made in training medical and.paramedical personnel in
family planning, the over-all performance is still weak.  The National
Family Planning Board recognizes this fact and has recently taken steps to
step up the volume and. range of training activities.  Late in 1971 a full-
time Director of Training was designated. and a "Plan of Training for Fam-
ily Planning" was drawn up.  Starting in 1972, new courses for opinion
leaders and.provincial trainers have been started.. A major need. is the
preparation of training materials (including audio-visual aids). The
preparation of training materials for the in-service training of medical
personnel has lagged. because of an unclear division of responsibility
between the Board and the Ministry of Health. More attention needs to
be given to national population problems, and especially to the relation
between family health and family planning, in the basic education of doc-
tors, nurses, pharmacists, and social workers. Training activities of
the Ministry of Social Affairs and of the (semi-private) Egyptian Family
Planning Association also need. strengthening.
V.        Education and motivation of some groups now being neglected:
While a fairly broad-based communications program is being mounted, this
does not seem to be paying enough attention to young people and adult
males. The former can best be reached by giving more attention to changes
in secondary school and university curricula; although the latter may be
more difficult it may include such measures as more internsive and effec-
tive use of religious leaders and mass media (radio, films, press, and
acceptable forms of public advertising).
vi.       Strengthening the National Family Planning Board:  The present
organization of the national family planning effort seems good, -- a central
planning and.programming agency that relies on the existing line ministries
to execute particular activities, and. particularly on the Mtinistry of Pub-
lic Health for the delivery of family planning services. However, the Ex-
ecutive Board for Family Planning is seriously deficient in high-calibre
senior staff. Although the Board. enjoys the preferential pay scale which
sa-.e priority agencies have been given, it is not yet clear that it can
offer able men the career prospects of some of the traditional ministries.
The present Chairman is fully aware of this problem; he will need. under-
standing and support from Government in overcoming this serious constraint
on program development.



ANNEX 15
Page 3 Of 5
vii.      Assuring the adequacy and continuity of contraceptive supplies:
This is partly a task of determining the optimum number and types needed,
partly a question of inventory and procurement management, and partly a
problem of foreign exchange availabilities. Shortage of exchange has in
the past caused variations in the supplies of raw materials for pill manu-
facturing and the procurement of inferior types of condoms from soft cur-
rency sources. There have been recent improvements in the availability
of exchange for the Government's own supplies -- thanks to the 1971 UNFPA
Agreement -- but not for the private sector requirements. A combination
of longer-term, more definite assistance agreements, plus explicit prior-
ities for contraceptives bought with untied exchange, is needed. The
possibility that pill supplies could be procured more cheaply if purchased
abroad rather than manufactured at home deserves study. At the time of
the mission's visit, contraceptive supplies were costing the country at
least 100% more than they should, measured by world prices.
viii.     Simplification of service statistics:  The present system of
statistical reporting is unnecessarily complex, although it is reason-
ably well maintained by field personnel. Too many forms are required,
the service statistics system is not reconciled with the separate sta-
tistics required by operation of the incentive system nor with the stock
control system, and little or no analysis is performed on the statistics
which the system makes available. These shortcomings all deserve atten-
tion.
ix.       Need for evaluation of program results:  Evaluation implies
the analysis of service statistics and, more importantly, the conduct
of special studies to establish measurements of key values which indi-
cate whether or not the program is accomplishing its fundamental objec-
tive of preventing unwanted births. No program of evaluation studies
exists in the Board at present. The Board needs assistance in planning
a series of evaluation studies, most of which would be conducted by uni-
versity personnel. The Board has two committees of consultants, the
Rio-Medical Research Committee and the Socio-Economic Research Committee,
which are developing programs of university-based research projects re-
lated to family planning which the Board will finance. While funding
of these research programs seems adequate, a small input of outside tech-
nical assistance appears needed to assure that the programs cover an ade-
quate range of topics including, especially, evaluation studies.
x.        Weakness of present postpartum activities:  With the notable
exception of Alexandria, there is at present very little attempt to
follow up recently-delivered women to try to interest them in family
planning. With the exception of 1-2 hospitals, the hospital-based post-
partum effort is notably weak. This is a gap in the program that de-
serves closing, especially if there is to be intensified action to in-
crease the number of lOop acceptors. It probably makes sense to encour-
age two or three additional groups to accept responsibility for an ex-
panded pilot hospital postpartum program. But there may also be possi-
bilities for transferring to other jurisdictions the successful non-



ANNEX 15
Page 1-of 5
hospital-based postpartum program (based on birth registrations) developed
by the Alexandria Family Planning Association. At minimum, an experiment
should be tried.
xi.       Ineffectiveness of the staff incentive payments scheme:  Since
its start the program has offered incentive payments to the medical and
paramedical staff. These have been based on the number of pill-strips
sold and loops inserted. Despite some inequities, the system seems well-
administered. However, the system appears to have little or no effect in
expanding or retaining acceptors: if the system were ended it is doubt-
,'ful that there would be any significant falloff in pill sales or IUD in-
|sertions. There would, of course, be protests from the staff, who have
naturally grown accustomed to these extra payments. There is thus a di-
le6   `rhether to-terminate -the syst-em be'cause it does not exercise any
real incentive effect or to continue it to prevent staff demoralization.
The'mission's feeling is that the- staff inc-entive''s'cheme should-be rtet-r
minated, perhaps at the next time Ministry of Health salaries are increased.
We also feel that cash acceptor incentives are unnecessary, expensive, and
difficult to administer.  However, we do recommend the design of one or
two pilot experiments with acceptor incentives, possibly linking months of
non-pregnancy to deferred benefits payable when women reach age 45 as is
being tried experimentally in India with promising initial results.
xii.      Establishment of national, Governorate, and unit targets:  There
are good reasons for believing that the establishment of targets for new
acceptors would exert a stronger incentive effect in the system than the
present scheme of incentive payments (the two approaches could of course
be used together). By providing people with specific annual goals, tar-
gets can help stimulate people to devise new ways of doing things, they
"legitimize" increased pressure from those with supervisory responsibi-
lity, they inject an element of healthy competition among units and Govern-
orates, and they provide a measure of achievement. However, if they are
to be taken seriously, targets must be set carefully, preferably with the
participation of those to whom they will apply. We suggest that the
Board consider commissioning one or two people to prepare a scheme for
the introduction of targets not later than January, 1974. Preparation
should probably include travel to countries that have experience with
program targets, plus a Workshop for key program personnel to test out
suggestions before they are formally adopted.
xiii.     Publication of an Annual Report on Population Activities: This
suggestion is made for two reasons, (i) to increase public awareness of
the country's population problem among the leadership group and (ii) to
add a sense of urgency to the Board's work by putting it under an ob-
ligation to make a report to the country on what has happened during
the past year. Such a report would help improve the service statistics,
increase the need for evaluation studies, and help the Board explain to
the public what it is doing, how much success it is having, and what its
main problems are. This should be an important national document each
year. Because of the country's International importance, the Report should
be published in both Arabic and English.



ANNEX 15
Page 5of 5
xiv.      The general need to plan and try experiments:  The Board has
moved cautiously into a few procedural and "pilot project" experiments,
but cannot be said to have a well-thought-out program of experiments to
determine what may increase program effectiveness.  The Board's general
weakness prevents any large or vigorous program of experiments, but
something more than is occurring at present is needed as an investment
in program development.
The World Bank, August 1972.






ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egyt:    pe, Number and Location of Physical Facilities
Gross
Floor
Type of Physi-  Area      Tto
cal Facility      m*m  Total    -en        Da-ietta    Qalubiya         Cairo   Assiut   Tanta
General
Health
Center            740        22      6          1          5          10       -
Governorate
Polyclinic      2,100         2      1          1          -           -       -
District
Polyclinic      1,500         8      5          2          1           -       -
Rurral Ioly-
clinic          1,120         2      2          -          -
Nurse Teacher
Training
Center          1,160         3      -          -          -           1       1
Demonstration
Training
Center          1,160         3      1          1          1           -       -
*  Approximate area per facility.






H ~ ~~~~                       ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o 'N  N  N                 N
N                   a                    Hc                                                                                 -
nN-NC        gN0    'N             NNNN                 Nrr'N               'N  'N              PN 0N
N ~        ~~~ N a  N            0- O                                                            a    O               a    O
HN NN NrNO                              'NNNN n'NN PNNNN                                              INNNN rIorPr         pN_rrgX wparor3nIroNrNg
10 P                 N    NNh           ON00    f ON                                                    Dmc;=-,  N1   NI0  ONY
r.   NO r          'N    NN .NN                 NN r.N               NO         aNN    ON ."N    NO NrN.                            NN .. r 
r~~~~NN                N 3aN                N                                                                         aN      "N 3    'trg Orw 3o>m           32 xp 3zN
g;~~~a.                N           aa       N                   N      P    aa=     PP ,r .N       Nr    N      .     aar.  rng
OW ~ ~ ~       O Nn                                      NOn rN  OO                                                    N"N                 - .  rrar
NO                     fa rN ON                                                                                                                                   r. a  i
O -----            - ----           |                                     - 0                                     -    v-  0  W0D 
N-          V         -                   aO                   a                    N                    N          >                                                      )H<w2  nffO      a  _  _P 
N                     N                   No                                       N N                   N                                        3               N
N                  N  n o                              N    N                     N      w       0                         N                                    N      
t~~~~~ a                                                   a                   a                    N                    a D      tm  sV  lo>f  loogV  fN nr
f N)                                                           00                   N'  Ul  ON           N   WNN)           1     9;N-Slf 
000                  n-W )O'N1                               oO ONON)            OaN)-                aNN)NC               'NN)NNN                 _             No_o~Vj  t
-- -lu                                                                            NjNNN) o                -_  v    so o7vo9JO|[O
|     OI   t-)O           a   .)                 .)                   |    )        N   Ni  _N)         vWHu'N  N)NaN)
N)-N'    S          wvN)-N   vO               W)  _NooN-   .    f ON_NO                           bON)1.'Ni.O                                                    N 
I4   NOON               -NON V)NN0 l .1)NN                                                              00000                                                       -  1wwvH        
l l i ~~~~I                                                                                  IN 1
I                                        N|   N)N)'NN         aNN'o           a   |>woCDl!|z 
NNNr ON)             I                    ON N'               'NNai-
i~~~~~~~~~~4 N 0 -0 N N                                                                                                               |) niNN 4
I-OO            INNO IOINN)N|)NO
t   t}          I                    I                    I                 ~          ~        ~           ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~)  a  "       N 
|~~~' a                                                   a Nw )N-  r           |                   |         r   I 
t s W > r > 1ad <                                           vN                                 aD'N)oNor osovMK K=    iwvooo3s-N)o Nc| 
-N)NN          i v NO-                                                                                  N-Nowo     1;o     I      wsvm+|>ooo~ON N     
jN)NN)'CoNr)V         "  >SW9                 So                      o1rV               oW WNNN~   aNNN'  aON-ONWWW         M_>0sO   
_)N 0N    )           _-ON C        _ _ _ .



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2
I EVALUATION                                                                    LE                  US$      II EXPERIMENTAL HOMEVISITING PROGRAM                                      LE             US$
1.  Acceptor Characteristics                                                                                  Planning and preparation                    LE   5,000
Analysts:                                                                                                 200 home visitors for 18 months each
9 x 3 x LE 35             LE  945                                                                         @ LE 15/month                               LE  54,000
Travel and per diem       LE  810                                                                         Evaluation                                  LE   5,000
Supervision:                                                                                              Overhead                                    LE   6,000
4 x LE 000 =              LE  400                                                                           Total . .            .............,.,.,,.. ....          70,000          178,500
travel and per diem       LE  100
Overhead:                 LE  745                                                               III PROL'UCTION OF HEALTH AND POPULATION;
EDUCATION MATERIALS
Subtotal                      LE 3,00Q = US$7,650
Equipment                                  us$ 70,000
Short term technical assistance:                                                                             Technical assistance (medium and            US$ 30,000
short term)        ______
3 man/months
@ uS$ 2,500/month       US$   7,500                                                                                                                 US$100,000
LE 39,216
60 days per diem
@ US$ 25/day            US$   1,500                                                                     Staff 10 man/years
@ llS$ 2$LE 2000                                       LE  20,000-
travel                    US$   3.000                                                                                                                 US$ 51,000
Subtotal                      US$  12,000  LE 4706                                                             Total ....,.,,,,.. ....,,,.,....                           59,216          151,000
Total ....... 7,706                                                                   19,650
IV SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT .       .............,,. .                      3,922          10,000
2.  Continuation rates   (Sample Survey)
V UNFORESEEN         ..............................          ....      6,980           17,800
Sample design             LE    500
field work (2,000 in-                                                                           GRAND TOTAL PROGRAM ACTIVITIES  ....... ..................            158,823          405,000
terviews)   LE  2,000                                                              S         P
Supervision               LE  1,000                                            I_II
Coding & tabulating       LE  2,000                                                                                                                                      ILE              US$
Analysis (4 staff &                                    l                ~~~~~~~~~~~SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS   (in thousands)                  t.
director 5 months)         2,500                                                                  Physical Facilities                                                2,584            6,592
Printing & translation           750                                                                  Vehicles and Parts                                                    235             600
overhead                       1,000                                                                  Consulting Architects                                                  98             250
Total             ..                                       ,  10,000                  25,500           Program Activities                                                   159              405
Contingencies                                                     1,051            2,679
3.  Damietta in depth analysis
elaborate in depth study based
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS . ..,,,.,.,,.,.,.,,.........                        4,127           10,526
on studies I and 2
covered by extra contingency ...........................   1,000                       2,55D



ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 3
Arab Republic of Egypt: Project Implementation
1.        The population project includes several components -- civil
works, furniture and equipment, and vehicles -- each of which will be
the responsibility of one or more than one Ministry. Physical realiza-
tion will require the joint work of the Ministries of Housing and
Construction and Health; furniture, equipment and vehicles will be the
main concern of a procurement unit in the Ministry of Health.
2.        To provide a locus of overall project coordination and liaison
with the Association, the Government will establish a Project Coordinat-
ing Committee (PCC), consisting of a Project Coordinator, an Assistant
Project Coordinator for the civil works part of the project, and an
Assistant Project Coordinator for the program activities. (See Chapter
IV, paras 4.01 to 4.03).
Civil Works
3.        The architectural work will be divided by geographical regions.
About three executive architectural firms will be retained, after pre-
qualification and on the basis of their experience in health and educa-
tional facilities, architectural talent and management capability. To
provide day-to-day site supervision of the construction, clerks-of-works
will be appointed by the Ministry of Housing and Constraction but will
work under the direction of the responsible executive architect. The
terms of reference for the executive architects will be prepared by the
consultant architects and approved by the Borrower and the Association
and will include:
a. a statement of design and planning philosophy;
b. the functional program and schedule of accommodations;
c. a target cost estimate;
d. a target completion date;
e. a requirement that each architect should prepare a
detailed construction progress control schedule (CPM,
bar chart, etc.); and
f. for the health centers, a requirement that each firm
should participate in a systems building study and cost
planning exercise to be coordinated by the APC (construction)
and the consultants.



ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3
4.        The functions and responsibilities of the consultants
and the APC (Construction) will include inter alia:
a.    coordination of the activities of the executive architects
and firms and the Ministries concerned with the implementation
of the civil works component of the project;
b.    all matters concerning the establishment of standards, user
requirements, equipment Jists, space schedules and the
preparation of schematic and final designs for construction
components and their cost estimates; adherence by executive
architects and contractors to agreed progress schedules;
c.    coordination of the systems building study;
d.    confirmation of the suitability of the sites selected
by the Ministry;
e.    collaboration with representatives of the Mirnstry of Health and
the Ministry of Housing and Construction:
i.   in the selection and appointment of executive
architects;
ii. in monthly meetings to review progress;
iii. in selections and prequalification of contractors; and
iv. in periodic site inspection of work in prograss;
f.    arranging for the review and approval of architactural and
engineering reports, plans, specifications, equipment lists
and other submitted material by appropriate authorities and
the Association at the following stages:
i.   schematic design;
ii. final design; and
iii. working drawings and contract documents;
g.    approval and supervision of bidding procedures and the
adjudication of the award of contract;
h.    processing of all certificates of payment submitted and
..orwa.rding to the Bank for reimbursement;
i.    ensuring that furniture and equipment is designed and
installed according to specifications, as well as ensuring
timely procurement for use according to schedule;



ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 3
j.    evaluation of progress, receipt of weekly progress
report, and submission of a monthly progress report
to the Minister of Health and to the Ministry of Housing
and Construction, and a quarterly report to the Association.
k.    at the completion of construction, participation with the
executive architectural firms in recommending acceptance of
the completed facility by the client Ministry.
1.    a study and strategic plan for the maintenance of MPH
buildings, furniture, installations and equipment.
5.        The APC (Construction) will be assisted by the consultants in
construction scheduling and will be responsible for preparing, and updating
as necessary, an outline implementation chart, using CPM or a similar method.
This chart will show the planned timetable of coordinated activities and
responsibilities, in the basis of which all aspects of the civil works will
be arried out and which will be the first step in implementing the project.
Packaging of Cbnstruction Contracts
6.        Contracts will be packaged regionally, on the basis of ease of
communication and terrain, and centered on governorates; the latter are of
course also the regional bases for building supplies and labor. Packages
will be delineated in agreement with the Association, and will be formed
in order to attract appropriately qualified contractors.
7.        In the event of non receipt of bids for facilities in remote
areas, the Government would, in consultation with the Association, negotiate
directly with local contractors.






ArabRepulic  f Egpt:Scheule  f I,pieentation For Civil Works                                              ANNEX 19
Page I of I
FACILITIES                                     YEAR I                                                    YEAR 2                                                  YEAR~ 3                                   YEAR, 4
12                  3      j      4              1     j       2             34                           12                          3             4                            2
District Polvc1inics (8)            sa                0-k         = =            XXX               XI    II XX   -          x      x x                x x  x   - ______   ______                    _____________
Covernorate PFolvclini,s (21        sa    : :        '                X         X X X         XX  N           X XE          X N         N  X           x N  XX        XE                            -
Nurse Traioing Center (31)          sa :   :     " -X                           N X X         X X X         X N N         X  X N                             -)                           +                           (
Rural Polyclinica  (Attached        so :  :R.o,                                 x x x         x x x         x x x         x x x         x x x          x N X             N
L0 a OHC)   (2)(--
Gooorat Health Centers (22)                                                         sa                      'xx                         x      X  XXX XX               XX                           - 
Demonstration Ceorors (3)                                                           sa             ~-                     xx x                 XX         XX           XX                           -
sa      selection and appointment of consultants and specialists
*:=design
.0=preparation of production information and bid package
==  bidding
XXX     construction
(-I)    ends defecrs liability period for oonstruotion
+       ends defects liability period for furniture and equipment
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(cost unit:LE)
Physical Facilities                   Totals                                 Year 1                                          Year 2                                              Year 3                             Year 4
US$         LE           1            2            3           4          1             2           3            4           1            2            3            4           1            2
civil works                     4 595 327   _ 801_368       ____         72,057    135,104       180,137      198,150   216,163       243,1t83     216,163      198,150    180,137   ______ 162,124    ____    _____
professional services              357,847      140,276     21,041       21,041      21,042       21,042                  21,042                    21,042                   14,027
farniture and equilpment        1,637,798      642,017                               57,764       64,194       70,623     80,260       86,690       80,260       73,838      64,194                                            64,194
-ve_hicles      ___________         600,000_- 235 294                                  14,118      25,882       32,941    37, 647        35,294       29,412       22353       14 1j18   ___-         _____            _-       23,529
Consultants                        250,000       98,039     16,340                   16,340   ___              16,340                  16,340                    16,340                ____         ________                   16,339
program activities                 405,000  1I58,824         9,804       14,706      17,647       24,51-0      20,980     20,980        18,628      15,882       13,687
contingencies                   2,681,877  1,051,296        13,647       54,658      73,587      105,134      115,630    130,373      136.682      124,081      109,341      92,516                   58,865                   36,782
TOTALS      10, 527,849  4,127,114    60,832        162,462   335,601        420,899     454,684    506,465       536,817      486,820    435,709   364,992                      220,989                  140,844






ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement at
IDA Fiscal Year and QuarterO                   End of Quarter (US$ '000)
1974
March 31, 1974                                       71
June 30, 1974                                       268
1975
September 30, 1974                                  674
December 31, 1974                                 1,184
March 31, 1975                                    1,736
June 30, 1975                                     2,350
1976
September 30, 1975                                3,003
December 31, 1975                                 3,594
March 31, 1976                                    4,124
June 30, 1976                                     4,569
1977
September 30, 1976                                4,569
December 31, 1976                                 4,844
March 31, 1977                                    4,844
June 30, 1977                                     5,000
V1 IDA fiscal year endsJune 30.






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW SCHEME FOR NURSING EDUCATION
HIGH INSTITUTE OF NURSING
B.SC. DEGREE - 4 YEARS
DIPLOMA IN                            +
CLINICAL SPECIALITIES               ENTER 2ND YEAR
DIPLOMA OF GENERAL NURSING
(2 YEARS)
SECONDARY TECHNICAL SCHOOL
HIGH SCHOOLS
CERTIFICATE OF GENERAL
GENERAL EDUCATION
NURSING
(3 YEARS)                                                           (3 YEARS)
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
(9 YEARS OF EDUCATION)
World Bank-7902






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
DISTRIBUTION OF ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES AND IUD INSERTIONS, 1966-1972
MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION PILLS
(SEE SCALE AT LEFT)                   +
MONTHLY IUD INSERTIONS
400,000                                                                                         (SEE SCALE AT RIGHT)
*      -p~0*
7000
300,000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 A                         '
300,000                                                                                                                                      6000
O A    J   O    J    A   J    O    J    A    J    O    J    A    J    O    J    A    J    O    J    A J O J A 5000
00  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30
2000
1000
100,000 
i   A    J   0    J    A   J    0    J    A    J    0    J    A    J    0    J    A    J    0    j           A    J    0    J    A
1966                1967                 1968                 1969                 1970                 1971                1972
World Bank-7903(R)






FIGURE 1
THE PROBABLE RANGE OF EGYPT'S POPULATION OVER THE NEXT TWO GENERATIONS
(rounded to nearest million)
Projection A: At Probable Maximum Fertility Decline
Projection B: At Present Trend in Fertility Decline
LEGEND:
-200
RffB    Population Size:
lBB    Projection B
- 180   w    Population Size:                                                               B
Projection A                                                                   13
Difference in Population
El   Size Between
-  160          Projections A and B
-140                                                                       139
-  120
0
-4   100
-80
-260                                                                                                               1972000 LEVEL
1970 LEVEL
1970        1980        1990        2000        2010        2020         2030                                   YEARS
INCREASE: in millions
A      B
1970 to 2000  +29    +41
2000 to 2030  +22    +65
1970 to 2030  +51    +106                                                                                    Vorid 13-k752(R)






'~~~~~~~3'1
10,001-r20,000
~~~~~ .00   1, 000XS ;'
Approoimo8e   omo.te BDoundari.,,,: ...  ,-\es
:::W:e-. ;I
BnEernational Bouda *e
PERSONS/54KM. ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ IILOETR                                    0            C t
=0           00012e0                                           20on-* 40         60
i      0S001-  R0,0N                                                                       .-___ _
I24 EL Main  IRAd      -'SLIYA M LES
60450  5LII~~~~~               L0-
3   -                                                                                            S-i.'  /7                               o
S,r UD   N                                                        K  E  Y                                                          ? -_-- -  ,W I-, I0   --
IAA5IPUL1>\weeaARAB  AREPUBLI               OF    EGYPT                                                                            |
ES YPr   \ '      (CENSUS  OF,1966).A 
PERSOl~1 >NS /(. SQ_ KM__._____ g






AGeneal  optl
-1 -    Wadis' '"'''0
0  0  [1 iLe '""' ''- \ ' '~~60 
Approalmte Goerusart   isudai
AtE INICATEDon niLsaS ALNGSIDESAIROL
[1~       ~AA   REPUBLI  OFlt                          EGYPTr                      SooaCt
AN  EXISTIN  HEALTH FAILTIS                                                                    9 
31~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~C
at .    n    3nes HoPhol 
Rood         lw                                   i 2e  00 50 5 
,=----W,dls                                                                             :9W,
-    -  Ia ea jt erSnoUt        IRAN on                     D        4        nurs2
ARE5 INDICATED BY                                  MILES ALNAIDEM8L
-24       ~               ~~~ ARABU~~   REULASFSGPTERooIy;
7--ILO  PROEC  AREA                                                                                   -, 
SAUD EXISING HELHFCLTE5
RS.PDonr LC o*                                                                                                                             'Vl     D U  '4
6  lOE    ,n UKE                                                                                                             - '-C e       
r0 p  I      -     L       I                                           CT -)  0  20  40 e- 
j L      D6 -(                                         -  -            I ;_              -    -                                               (A' ~  
l   .  :\      5 A U D       T'n: t                             e   '                                                   --A 
r   | REApU 81C  smo l a    AA1A           t                                                                                               D
O IOE E YPT \t _ _ . !o , . I UF-1 
Wi   J   ;   U   D6N  <  f  >( | _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Ls~~~~~~~~~~~T6,Q                               ,~,



