CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 437 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 6, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 437 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 6, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 1973, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿4
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972 as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
January 15, 1984, and ending July 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on July 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out and operate the Project through
its Ministry of Health with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, technical, financial, public health and family planning
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of overall management and coordination
in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall establish, within its Ministry
of Health, a project coordinating committee with such powers, responsibilities and
functions as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿5
(b)   The Project Coordinating Committee shall consist of a qualified and
experienced Project Coordinator and two qualified and experienced Assistant
Project Coordinators, all to be appointed in consultation with the Association, a
Project Accountant, and such other supporting staff as shall be required for the
efficient implementation of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A
and C(3) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ architectural consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(b)   In carrying out Part A    of the Project the Borrower shall employ
executive architects acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. In carrying out the construction of the facilities included in
Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Association for
its comments, not later than three months after the Effective Date or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Association, a detailed syllabus of population and
family planning materials included in the curricula for student-nurses as well as
those to be included in the curricula for nursing teacher trainees.
Section 3.06. In carrying out the experimental home-visiting program referred
to under Part C(2) of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) engage an institution,
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, to prepare the detailed plans for said program; and (ii) furnish such
plans to the Association for its comments, not later than six months after the
Effective Date or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, and
shall make such modifications to said program as the Association shall reasonably
request.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association for
its comments, not later than three months after the Effective Date or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Association, a program for the production of
health education and population-related materials and shall make such modifications
to said program as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (i) carry out, with the assistance of the
consultants provided for in Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement, the study of


﻿6
maintenance needs of health facilities and equipment referred to under Part C(3)
of the Project; (ii) provide the Association, promptly upon its completion, with
copies of the study and all related documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association
for its comments, not later than six months after the completion of said study
and on the basis of the recommendations therein, a detailed plan for administrative
and financial procedures for the purpose of such maintenance and thereafter
implement such procedures.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, not later than three months after the
Effective Date or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, enter
into agreement satisfactory to the Association with appropriate institutions,
acceptable to the Association, for conducting the studies listed under Part C(1)
of the Project under terms of reference to be prepared in consultation with the
Association, and shall complete and provide the Association, not later than fifteen
months after the Effective Date or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, with copies of said studies and all related documents.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿7
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire not later than six months after the date
of this Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construction
(and operation) of the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action as shall
be required to provide, promptly as needed for the efficient construction and
operation of the facilities included in Part A of the Project, all necessary road,
electricity, water and sewerage connections and such other supporting services as
may be necessary for the above purposes.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall conduct an evaluation of the home-visiting
program referred to under Part C(2) of the Project during the period from January
to June, 1976, or such other period as shall be agreed with the Association.
Section 4.03. In order to ensure the availability of oral contraceptives through
commercial channels, the Borrower shall make an annual allocation in foreign
exchange in an amount not less than US$200,000 equivalent in each of the years
1974, 1975 and 1976 for the importation of raw materials for the manufacture
of oral contraceptives to be distributed through the commercial sector.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the buildings, furniture and equipment
of the health facilities included in the Project to be adequately maintained and
shall cause all necessary renewals and repairs thereof to be made in accordance
with the procedures which shall have been established pursuant to Section 3.08
of this Agreement.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Developmo..t Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿9
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VH
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VHI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has engaged an institution acceptable to the Association
to prepare the detailed plans for the experimental home-visiting program referred
to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement pursuant to the provisions thereof;
(b)   the Project Coordination Committee referred to in Section 3.02(a) of
this Agreement has been established pursuant to the provisions thereof;
(c)   the Project Coordinator and the Assistant Project Coordinators referred
to in Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement have been appointed pursuant to the
provisions thereof; and
(d)   the architectural consultants referred to in Section 3.03(a) of this
Agreement have been employed pursuant to the provisions thereof.


﻿10
Section 8.02. The date March 6, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 and 4.04
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance, Economy and Foreign Trade of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance, Economy
and Foreign Trade
Lazoughly
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
ECOTRADE
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿I'i
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s / A. T. Khalil
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s   M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Civil Works                   1,615,000          30% of total
expenditures (re-
presenting the
estimated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
II.  Equipment and                 1,240,000
furniture
(a)  imported                                    100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  manufactured                                100% of the ex-
locally                                     factory cost
(c)  imported and                                70% of total ex-
procured                                    penditures (re-
locally                                     presenting the
estimated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
III. Vehicles and spare             570,000
parts
(a)  imported                                    100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  manufactured                                100% of the ex-
locally                                    factory cost
IV.  Program Activities             120,000           30% of total ex-
under Parts C(1)                                 penditures (re-
and (2) and D of                                 presenting
the Project                                      the estimated
foreign expenditure
component)


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
V.   Architectural                  175,000          70% of total ex-
Consultants'                                    penditures (re-
services                                        presenting the
estimated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
VI.  Unallocated                  1,280,000
TOTAL        5,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term   "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the  term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
1 above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:


﻿14
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have   reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
11(c) or IV or V shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to support the population and family planning
program of the Borrower and consists of the following:
A.    The construction, equipping and furnishing of:
(1)   Twenty-two General Health Centers;
(2)   Twelve polyclinics;
(3)   Three centers for nursing teacher training; and
(4)   Three demonstration training centers to provide in-service training in
family planning and environmental health.
The location and appropriate gross floor areas for each of the facilities listed
above are set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
B.    The purchase of 150 multipurpose vehicles to improve the mobility of family
planning services in the rural areas and to provide transport for the training
centers;
C.    The carrying out of:
(1)   the following studies on family planning acceptance:
(i)         a study   of the   characteristics of acceptors in the
Governorates of Cairo, Damietta, Qalubiya and Qena,
(ii)        a study of continuation rates in the Governorates referred
to under (i) above,
(iii)       a study of the acceptance rates in the Governorate of
Damietta,
(2)   an experimental home-visiting program; and
(3)   a study of the maintenance needs of health facilities and equipment.


﻿16
D.   The production of health education materials including demographic and
family planning materials.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


﻿I
17
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Gross
Floor
Type of Physi-   Area
cal Facility    in m2*     Total    Qena     Damietta  Qalubiya   Cairo  Assiut  Tanta
General
Health
Center              740     22        6          1         5       10
Governorate
Polyclinics       2,100      2        1          1         -        -
District
Polyclinic        1,500      8        5          2          1
Rural Poly-
clinic            1,120      2        2          -
Nurse Teacher
Training Cen-
ter               1,160      3        -          --                 1
Demonstration
Training Cen-
ter               1,160      3        1          1         1        -
*    Approximate area per facility.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Grouping of Contracts
Contracts for civil works, equipment and furniture shall, to the extent
appropriate, be grouped, in     consultation  with  the Association  and   after
consideration of the recommendations of the architectural consultants referred to
in Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement, so as to encourage international competitive
bidding.
B.    Contracts Subject to International Competitive Bidding
1.    All contracts for vehicles and equipment and any contract for civil works
or furniture estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $25,000 shall be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    With respect to civil works and furniture contracts referred to in paragraph
(1) above, and any contract for vehicles or equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $25,000:
(a)   Bidders shall not be required to prequalify.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the Project
Coordinating Committee referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, and the
consultants referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said Committee, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿I- _
19
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any contract for vehicles and equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $25,000 or less, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Asso-iation shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
C.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inlahd freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
the Arab Republic of Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in the Arab Republic of Egypt of not less than 20% of the ex-factory
bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in the Arab Republic of Egypt.
LO.


﻿20
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
3.    For goods included in Categories II and III of the table set out in paragraph
I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, a margin of preference may be granted by
the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by
adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred
Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal
to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                     Bids to be Compared                     Preference
I.         All Preferred Domestic Bids and Non-preferred         None
Domestic Bids.
II.        (a)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1, if           Add Domestic
Preferred Domestic Bid, with all Foreign        Preference
Bids;                                           Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, if           None
Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
III.       If lowest evaluated bid under Stage II is not         None
the lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, all
Foreign Bids.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
D.    Contracts not Subject to International Competitive Bidding
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works or furniture estimated to cost
the equivalent of $25,000 or less, the Borrower may award such contracts on the


﻿21
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with the procurement procedures
of the Borrower. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
2.    Contracts for the production of health education material or for the
procurement of equipment related thereto under Part D of the Project shall be
procured according to the procurement procedures of the Borrower.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Project Coordinating Committee
1.    The Project Coordinating Committee referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement will be responsible for the overall management and coordination in the
execution of the Project. It will have such powers and responsibilities as may be
necessary for, or incidental to, the proper execution and supervision of the Project,
and in particular, the following powers and responsibilities:
(a)   the coordination and integration of all Project activities with the
concerned ministries and agencies of the Borrower;
(b)   the arrangements for the selection of the architectural consultants
referred to in Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement, of the executive architects referred
to in Section 3.03(b) thereof, and of any other specialists, as shall be required
for the carrying out of the evaluation studies listed under Part C(1) of the Project,
and the preparation of their terms of reference and the administration of their
contracts;
(c)   the preparation with the assistance of the architectural consultants,
executive architects and other experts of a comprehensive implementation schedule
embodying a timetable of coordinated activities and responsibilities on which the
carrying out of all aspects of the Project will be based;
(d)   the preparation of all briefs and user data required by the architectural
consultants, executive architects and other experts to enable functional needs to
be established for the physical facilities of the Project;
(e)   the arrangements for the review and approval by appropriate authorities
of the proposals, reports, specifications and other material submitted by the
architectural consultants and other experts;
(f)   arranging for the preparation of detailed lists of equipment, furniture
and vehicles for the Project;
(g)   making arrangement to      ensure that all construction, equipment,
furniture and vehicles meet specifications;
(h)   arranging for inviting bids and awarding contracts related to the Project;
(i)   keeping of accounts for the Project and preparation of interim
evaluation and financial statement therefor;


﻿23
(j)   the preparation for submission to the Association through proper
channels of applications for withdrawals from  the Credit Account;
(k)   the preparation for submission to the Association of plans, programs
and reports related to the activities described in Part C(1) and C(2) of the Project;
and
(1)   preparation of quarterly progress reports for submission to the
Association.
2.    The Project Coordinating Committee shall consist of:
(a)   a Project Coordinator who shall be the head of the Committee and
who shall be appointed by the Minister of Health from among the senior officers
of the Ministry of Health. The Project Coordinator shall have overall responsibility
for the direction and supervision of the work of the Project Coordinating Committee
and shall be directly responsible to the Minister of Health;
(b)   an Assistant Project Coordinator for construction to be designated by
the Minister of Housing and Construction and to be responsible for all matters
related to the carrying out of Parts A and C(3) of the Project;
(c)   an Assistant Project Coordinator to be appointed by the Minister of
Health and to be responsible for the supervision of the carrying out of the program
components described under Parts C(l) and (2) and D of the Project. He shall
be responsible, in particular, for identifying and engaging institutions and/or
individuals for programming and carrying out these components, for monitoring
the progress in the carrying out of said components and for the supervision of
the procurement and assignment of vehicles to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(d)   a Project Accountant who shall be responsible for the setting up of
the accounting machinery and the technical and operational aspects of accounting
control relating to the Project pursuant to this Agreement. He shall also be
responsible for the preparation of interim evaluation and financial statements
relating to the Project; and
(e)   such other supporting staff as shall be required for the efficient and
proper discharge of the Project Coordinating Committee's responsibilities.


