                                                                    RP394

      Land Acquisition/ Involuntary Resettlement Policy Framework
                   for Romania Municipal Services Project
                        (Loan No. 4835-RO, P088252)




The Municipal Services Project involves construction of physical infrastructure
A. Project Background

in the area of Bucharest and Arad Municipalities, such as water supply, sewerage,
storm water drainage and road paving.

The Municipalities have identified a number of priority districts based on the
approved urban development plans. For Bucharest, the priority districts are in
sectors 1 and 6, and consist of built up areas which currently do not have water
and wastewater services and new residential areas.

Activities to be Financed for Bucharest Municipality

The population served by the project (residents and business demand) is
projected to exceed 133,000 by the year 2034 as per the General Urban Plan. The
main growth will come from the Otopeni North and the Baneasea regions which
are growing very fast and as a result the development of infrastructure in these
areas is included in Phase I of the urban development program.

1. Baneasa District (Sector 1). Baneasa is a new area under development by a
private developer to provide residential, business and commercial facilities. The
construction of commercial areas is finalized and the almost 3,000 housing units
were foreseen to be constructed in the area. An EU Phare financed project was
under implementation and brought in water to this district and also two 2500
m3 reservoirs and a water pumping station were built. The Bank's project will
help to build the water, sewerage, and storm water networks in the district. Road
paving will be done in the 20 hectares (ha.) of the publicly owned land in this
district.

2. Vatra Noua District (Sector 1) is a built-up area of 50 ha. where the
proposed investments are:
   (a)    Water: it will be supplied through the extension o f the 400 mm.
          pipeline along Ionescu Sisesti Street and 12.2 km distribution
          pipelines within the district;
   (b)    A combined sewerage and storm water system has been designed
          as the system is small and a part has already been constructed. The
          new wastewater network will be 9.6 km long and the wastewater is
          discharged by gravity through 5 outlet points into the existing main
          sewer along Gheorghe Sisesti Street; and
   (c)    Roads: 11.1 km o f roads (6 m wide) will be paved.

3. Straulesti District (Sector 1) is a built-up area of 115 ha. where the proposed
investments are:



                                                                                1
   (a)    Water: It will be provided through the main line being constructed
          under the Otopeni-North project and a 12.1 km distribution pipeline
          within the district;
   (b)    Sewerage: 10.7 km of sewerage will be constructed and the
          wastewater will discharge to the existing main sewer along the
          Bucharest - Targoviste road by gravity;
   (c)    Stormwater: 10.9 km of network will be constructed; and
   (d)    Roads: 9.5 km of roads (6 m wide) will be paved.

4. Otopeni North and Baneasa North Area (Sector 1) comprises an area of 570
ha for urban development for an estimated population of 80,000 to 95,000
people. Development of the area has not yet started, so the project will only
provide bulk water to the area without the distribution network and bring in the
sewerage connection points to the perimeter of the area. Investments include:
    (a)   Water: bulk supply through mains of 14.3 km,
    (b)   Sewerage: Extension o f a main sewer line by 2.9 km, and
    (c)   Stormwater - 0.6 km o f collector with outfall structure and discharge
          into a lagoon.

5. Odai District (Sector 1) is a green-field area of 32 ha. where social housing
will be built. Proposed investments are:
    (a)    Water: it will be provided from the Otopeni North and Baneasa North
           project and through the 1.1 km distribution system;
    (b)    Sewerage: 1.1 km of sewerage networks will be installed and the
           wastewater will be discharged to the sewer line in the Bucharest -
           Targoviste road;
    (c)    Stormwater: 1.3 km of collectors will be constructed which will allow
           1350. m3 o f underground and in-line storage;
    (d)    Roads: 1.5 km. o f roads (6 m wide) will be paved.

6. Chitila Triaj Area (Sector 1 ) is a built-up area of 70 ha. where the proposed
investments are:
    (a)    Water: It will be supplied through 1.7 km of distribution system;
    (b)    Wastewater: Since the area is small and near a combined system, a
           combined sewerage and storm water system has been designed. The
           proposed wastewater network has a length of 1.0 km and the
           wastewater will be pumped to an existing main collector; and
    (c)    Roads: 4.5 km. o f roads (6 m wide) will be paved.

7. Giulesti Sarbi District (Sector 6) is an area o f 200 ha and only part of the
area is built-up with partial drinking water and wastewater services. A large
portion of the district is regularly flooded. Proposed investments are:
    (a)    Water: construction of 10.3 km transmission main and 13.8 km
           distribution system;
    (b)    Sewerage: a separate sewerage system has been designed for this
           district, except for some small area where a combined system exists
           already. 10.6 km o f collectors will be constructed, the Boanca sewer
           line will be extended by 1.1 km, and a pumping station will be built;



                                                                               2
   (c)      Stormwater: 10.6 km o f storm water pipes will be installed. An
            additional drainage system of 2.3 km has been foreseen to lower the
            very high groundwater table in the south eastern part of the area; and
   (d)      Roads: 10.2 km. of roads (6 and 10 m) will be paved.



Activities to be financed for Arad Municipality

Arad is a medium-size city of 190,000 located in the west of Romania close to the
Hungarian border. It is situated on the Mures River which enters Hungary 50 km
downstream of Arad and flows into the Tisza River which in turn flows into the
Danube. The municipality has recently experienced rapid industrial growth


         Eligible expenditures under this component would be for: (a) Works for
stimulated by the automotive industry and border trade with Hungary and the EU.


         the provision of new urban services ­ sewerage, drainage and road


         surfacing ­ in priority neighborhoods; and (b) Technical Assistance to
         prepare bidding documents, for construction supervision, support to the
         municipality to implement the project, and complete financial audits.

         Arad is experiencing rapid industrial growth stimulated by the industrial
         zones created within the city and the border trade with Hungary and
         other EU Member States. Meeting EU standards through improved urban
         services is a high priority for the municipality, including the construction
         of a sewerage and storm water network to meet the growth needs. In
         Arad, the water and wastewater services are provided by Regional
         Autonomous Water and Sewerage Company (RAAC) Arad, a publicly-
         owned company that has a service contract with the County Council for
         the operation and maintenance of water and wastewater assets in five
         areas in the county, including the Arad municipality. RAAC is a public
         company and was not competitively selected. According to Romanian
         Law on State Aid, and in line with EU policy on State Aid, the operator that
         would operate the assets and benefit from the support provided by MoPF
         under this project should be selected on a competitive basis. To this end,
         Arad municipality will carry out a public tender to select and conclude a
         service or concession contract with an operator, by June 30, 2008, which
         will provide wastewater and drainage services through the assets created
         under the project. The national regulator for local services Autoritatea
         Nationala de Reglementare pentru Servicii Publice de Gospodarie
         (ANRSC) will regulate the selected operator.

         The project will cover three districts (Bujac, Gai, and Sanicolaul Mic) in
         Arad municipality and benefit a current population of 22,000,
         representing about 90% of the population in these districts, which does
         not have access to public sewerage and uses septic tanks that leak into the
         groundwater. The project areas also need proper drainage facilities as
         they are prone to flooding. The project investments are:




                                                                                   3
              Sewerage: Households will be connected to the sewer system,
              which will feed a new wastewater treatment plant being built with
       ·

              EU financing. This plant will treat the collected wastewater to EU
              standards;
              Stormwater drainage: Stormwater drainage will be installed,
              especially in the low lying project areas; and
       ·

              Road paving: Roads in which sewerage pipes and storm water
              drains are installed will be restored to at least their original
       ·

              quality. However, road paving has benefits for the traffic and the
              impact on vehicle maintenance and reduces siltation of the storm
              water drains.       The municipality will determine, prior to
              construction, whether or not roads in each district should be
              paved. This determination will be based on a satisfactory
              economic rate of return for the Bank to provide the no objection to
              road paving.

Summary of the investments in project districts

1. Bujac District is a residential district located in the north-western part of
Arad, with a surface area of 325 ha. Only 10% of the population is connected to a
sewerage system. Proposed investment are: (a) Sewerage: 40.3 km of sewerage
distribution network, collected by gravity and pumped by two pumping stations
into proposed collectors, which will discharge into the existing collector in
Targului Street; (b) Stormwater: 39.1 km network and two outlet points will be
constructed. The stormwater will be pumped into the lagoons and discharged by
gravity into the Muresel channel that flows into the Mures River; and (c) Roads:
35.3 km of roads (6 and 7 m. wide) will be paved. Currently only 4.1 km is
paved.

2. Gai District is located at the northern outskirts of the town and has a total
area of 720 ha. An industrial park is planned to be constructed to the north of
this area. At present, only one street in the south-east of the district is connected
to a public sewerage system. Proposed investments are: (a) Sewerage: 29.6 km
of distribution network connected; (b) Stormwater: 29.1 km of network
constructed along with 3 retention lagoons; and (c) Roads: 31.0 km of roads (6
and 7 meters wide) will be paved.

3. Sanicolaul District is located at the southern boundary of the town, with an
area of 240 ha and a population of 5,000 and expected to grow to 28,000.
Proposed investments are: (a) Sewerage: 15.4 km of distribution network plus
three pumping stations; (b) Stormwater: 12.9 km network and a lagoon,
functioning as a retention basin, to reduce the peak flow to the Mures river; and
(c) Roads: Paving about 17.5 km of roads where the sewerage and stormwater
investments will take place.

At the negotiation stage, the Municipalities both declared their intention to
exclude any infrastructure schemes that require land acquisition (land
expropriation for public purposes) from the Project.



                                                                                   4
Statements regarding the non-existence of any Environmental and Resettlement
issues as defined in the Loan Agreement no. 4835-RO with respect to all 3
contracts in Bucharest--B1, B2 and B3--and Arad--A1, A2, and A3--were
submitted to the Bank before the bidding process has been launched; in the
statement is mentioned the commitment of the implementing entity to solve any
unfortunate cases that might appear during execution without affecting the
performance of the Works. The Bucharest example is provided below:

"Without limitation upon the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Project
Implementing Entity states hereby that: [...]
    (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall be promptly informed of any developments in the
            legislation, rules or procedures of, or applicable to the Project Implementing Entity
            that may affect the implementation of Part 1/2 of the Project;
    (b)     the environmental impact assessment study and the environmental permits that may
            be required for the carrying out of Part 1/2 of the Project shall be sent to the Bank;
            and
    (c)     the implementation of Part 1(2) of the Project does not cause, or result in,
            Resettlement"


From the best knowledge of the Project Implementing Entity there is no any known land acquisition
issues related to the contracts B1/B2/B3 that may negatively impact the progress of the project. In
the unfortunate case that during the execution of Works such issues will occur the Project
Implementing Entity commit itself to solve them in the best way possible without affecting the
performance of the Works, itself."




The objective of the municipal services project is to directly improve the quality
B. Project and LAPF Objectives

of water and wastewater services and reduce flooding of low lying city areas
where new drainage networks will be built. The project also supports urban
services (water, sewerage, and storm water) which will support urban
development in Bucharest and Arad and allow water and wastewater services to
be provided as per EU directives.
Priority was given to infrastructure sub-projects on property already owned by
the Municipalities. When the issue of acquiring additional land appeared in the
case of Bucharest, the Municipality made every effort to minimize the land
acquisition necessary and to avoid residential property, proceeds by the
applicable law and duly informed the Bank, all in accordance with the above
mentioned Statement and the basic requirements of OP/BP 4.12, Involuntary
Resettlement.
This Land Acquisition Policy Framework is submitted for review and approval by
the World Bank because it is not possible to determine the number or location of
people to be affected by land acquisition. This Policy Framework establishes the
legal basis for land acquisition / involuntary resettlement and describes the
procedures that will be followed during implementation to ensure that the
process complies with OP/BP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement. This LAPF is
taking into consideration that a small number of owners are to be affected by
land expropriation, an Abbreviated Land Acquisition Plan will be prepared for



                                                                                                 5
each sub-project, according with the principles, objectives and processes stated
herein.


C. Legal Basis for Land Acquisition and OP4.12 Gap Analysis

C.1. Applicable Law

The Romanian Constitution (Art. 44, para. 3.6) protects the ownership of private
property and provides that "nobody may be expropriated unless for a cause of
public use, established according to the law, subject to a fair and prior
compensation." Implementation of this clause is the subject of the Expropriation
Law (33/1994) regarding the Process of Land Acquisition for Reasons of Public
Use, referred to as the "Expropriation Law." Procedures for establishing public
use are articulated in Government Resolution 583/1994 on "Regulation
regarding the procedure of the commissions for performing a prior investigation
to declare a public use for national or local interest works".

The Expropriation Law specifies conditions under which different governmental
authorities (national, country and local) can expropriate private land and
outlines procedures for doing so.
The Expropriation Law is detailed and particularized at the level of public
government and the sector (utilities and roads) by the following supporting
legislation:
       Law 215/2001 regarding local public administration
       Law no. 51/2006 with all its modifications regarding Community Services
   ·

       of Public utilities
   ·

       General framework regarding organization of public services for water
       supply and sewage, issued on February 18, 2003
   ·

       Law 213/1998 with all its modifications and regarding public property
       and its legal status
   ·

       Law nr. 198/2008 modified and updated, regarding some previous
       measures for construction of motorways and national, county and local
   ·

       roads
       Government Decision no. 434/2009 regarding the approval of
       methodological norms of application of Law 198/2004 regarding some
   ·

       previous measures for construction of motorways and national, county
       and local roads.
These laws establish the basis for investments to be classified as being of public
interest ("public utility") and gives to the Municipality of Bucharest the legal
tools to undertake an ex-ante assessment of land in question in order to
determine its public utility for works of local public interest, assessment which
will enable it to start the procedure for obtaining the property right on that land.
 The procedures for expropriation are specified in Law no. 33/1994 regarding
the Process of Land Acquisition for Reasons of Public Utility and the legal


                                                                                  6
framework established to undertake some previous measures before
construction of roads of national, county and local interest, as defined in art. 5
from the Government Ordinance no. 43/1997 regarding the roads regime,
republished with all its modifications and following additions.
In Romania, expropriation at all levels is governed by a general framework
Expropriation
Law 33/1994, the implementation of which is guided by Government Resolution
583/199425. The basic principles are straightforward: (i) expropriation must be
justified and minimized; (ii) compensation is in cash based on market value and
damages; (iii) contracts are subject to judicial review and ratification; (iv) failed
negotiations regarding compensation are settled by the courts, informed by an
expert valuation assessment; and (v) civil works can start only after the transfer
of the title is ordered by the courts and full compensation is paid.

Government Resolution 583/1994, a companion to Law 33/1994, sets
procedures and the functioning and membership of review commissions
involved in making the Expropriation Decision. These procedures apply to all
levels of government. The process consists of three stages that are described in
Law 33/1994. The following titles were assigned to these stages for clarification:
      1. Declaration of Public Use--based on a feasibility study and economic
          analysis, in the expropriation request the expropriator must
          demonstrate public need ("Public Use"); document that the investment
          is included in the urban or regional plan; and include a preliminary
          assessment of land acquisition and cost. Documentation is reviewed by
          a commission (county, local), which obtains inputs from utilities,
          agencies and interested parties. People who feel they may be affected
          can inquire and raise objections at this time. The commission either
          accepts the proposal and issues a Location Permit, or returns it to the
          expropriator. Minutes of the decision meeting are posted and
          distributed to affected parties. The Location Permit is posted in the
          County or Local Council and published in a local newspaper.
      2. Administration--based on the Technical Design, which specifies
          ownership of affected parcels (approved by the Cadastre office) and
          compensation levels set by authorized assessors, the expropriator can
          acquire land or rights-of-way. The design and proposed aggregate
          compensation is posted in the County or Local Council and published in
          a local newspaper, and owners are notified of the intent to acquire land
          or right of way. Interested parties can challenge the Technical Design by
          writing to the mayor, who appoints a commission to review and
          respond to all inputs. The minutes of the deliberation of the commission
          are posted and the commission either endorses the design or instructs
          the expropriator to modify it. Owners must provide documentation of
          ownership to negotiate. By law, the expropriator cannot offer an
          amount less than the assessed value of the property (Law 33/1994,
          Chapter IV, Art. 27). If the expropriator and owner agree on the
          compensation amount, a purchase contract is prepared and signed. The
          agreement becomes effective when it is ratified by the court and
          compensation is paid. If the two parties do not agree on a compensation
          amount, the expropriator or owner can submit the case for court


                                                                                   7
        adjudication.
     3. Adjudication--all agreements are reviewed by the court to determine
        whether or they followed proper procedures fulfilling legal
        requirements; if so, they are ratified and the transfer is immediate upon
        payment. In case of a dispute over compensation, the court
        commissions an expert valuation and sets the level of compensation.
        Ownership is deemed transferred when the transaction is registered in
        the cadastre and compensation is paid. The court also has the authority
        to sanction expropriation if owners cannot be located or ownership is
        disputed.

Land acquisition must be completed before a Construction License is issued,
after which civil works can start.

The process can be time consuming, particularly if ownership is unclear or
disputed, if owners cannot provide documentation of ownership or if owners
cannot be located. Compensation for disputed lands is decided by the court and
the expropriator deposits funds that are distributed once the dispute is settled.
In cases where documentation is incomplete, the expropriator helps legitimate
claimants acquire documents. If owners are not located, the expropriator follows
a prescribed notification procedure. The law does not clearly limit the time
required to complete expropriation or provide adequate guidance on how to
conclude the process for complicated cases. Consequently, the expropriation
process can be protracted.

Once the court ratifies the arrangement, and money is deposited in a bank
account, the transfer can take place. The owners of the land that was
expropriated have three years to challenge the compensation amount, but
cannot reverse the court decision to transfer ownership.

Disputes over ownership are resolved through a separate process outside the
scope of the Expropriation Law. The process involves the cadastre office as well
as courts, which make the final determination of the validity of conflicting claims
and the distribution of assets.

The Law no. 51/2006 provides for an exception to the general rules imposed by
Law 33/1994 such as, a formal agreement may be issued in authentic form by
the owner granting to the municipality to enter into the site and execute de
works before the procedure of transferring the ownership, by means of
expropriation or otherwise, including payment of money is completed.

C.2. Equivalence of the Romanian Applicable Law with OP/BP 4.00;
Analysis of Gaps and Differences

The expropriation system in Romania is broadly consistent with the objectives
and many of the operational principles of OP/BP 4.00. However a number of the
operational principles listed in Table A1 of OP 4.00 do not have specific
corresponding requirements in Romania.



                                                                                 8
                Analysis of Gaps

                There are no salient differences between Romanian expropriation laws and
                Table A1 of OP 4.00 in the objectives and principles 1, 3, 8, 9 and 11. Principle 10
                is not relevant for the pilot projects. The principles in which there are differences
                are discussed below, with abbreviated titles of the respective principles. (see
                detailed analysis in Attachment B).

Operational Principle 2.   The expropriation documents and Technical Design include information on household land ownership,
Census and Survey.         which constitutes a proxy for a household census. This operational principle also requires a baseline
                           household socio-economic survey to be carried out. However, Romanian expropriation laws and
                           procedures do not require a survey. The pilot projects primarily involve land acquisition, not physical
                           relocation, and would not require affected persons to change occupations, for which a socio-economic
                           survey might have some value. Therefore, this difference does not compromise the objectives or outcome of
                           the process and this is not a significant gap that would need to be filled in order for the projects to be
                           piloted under OP 4.00
Operational Principle 4.   The consultation and disclosure process is adequate, although a specific resettlement document is not
Consultation,              required. The documents prepared for the Expropriation Decision and the Technical Design can be
Entitlements       and     considered reasonable proxies for the plan specified in the principle. Eligibility for compensation is based
Special Groups.            on documentation of ownership or claims for damages. Within 15 days of the completion of the Technical
                           Design, which identifies affected persons specifically, these are notified by letter of the intent to
                           expropriate, along with a copy of the minutes of the Expropriation Decision. Negotiation for compensation
                           can be complicated if the land is not titled and ownership is contested, however. The estimated cost of
                           expropriation is included in the expropriation request and refined in the Technical Design, which includes
                           estimates of the value of each parcel. Affected persons must request compensation for "prejudice," during
                           negotiation or in the court, if they are not satisfied with the outcome of negotiations. The process does not
                           give special consideration to the vulnerable or excluded groups, but that difference is not considered to be
                           significant if (a) assessed valuation is adequate and consistent and (b) people are informed of their rights
                           and entitlements. Informants indicated little experience with the issue of illegal occupation and squatters,
                           and this needs to be monitored closely during implementation.
Operational Principle 5.   There are no provisions that require the expropriator to inform people of their rights. If information is
Inform People of Rights,   provided, however, it is cursory and appears to be inadequate. This is a salient divergence from the
Compensate          and    principle which could have significant impact if it results in compensation below market value and people
Support Transition.        are unaware of opportunities to contest the amount. This gap will have to be filled. Prompt payment of
                           compensation is required, and consistent with the principle, but violations of this principle in major
                           highway construction have been reported, thus the issue will need to be monitored closely during
                           implementation. Property values are assessed by certified assessors. Informants indicated some
                           discrepancies in the extent to which specific assessment reports are prepared and whether they are
                           prepared before or after negotiations. If the reports are prepared before negotiations, they are not
                           necessarily shared with owners, thus potentially disadvantaging them in negotiations. This is a salient
                           divergence which will be mitigated by standardizing the timing of assessments as well as requiring them to
                           be shared with owners at the start of negotiations. The quality and consistency of assessors appears to be
                           subject to dispute, which undermines public confidence in the valuation process and could result in under-
                           valuation, which would violate the principle. This divergence in practice will be mitigated. If people are
                           adequately informed about their rights, a combination of compensation for assets and prejudice should be
                           adequate for households to restore their assets, livelihoods and, if relevant, transition to another location.
                           Improving the dissemination of information will help reduce the likelihood that compensation is
                           inadequate, making the process and practice equivalent to the principle. To address the divergence in
                           practice related to information dissemination, the letter that announces the intent to expropriate will be
                           accompanied by a brochure that clearly describes the expropriation process and the rights of owners in the
                           process, including the scope of prejudice. If affected persons are compensated adequately for their losses,
                           there is land is available for owners to make their own adjustments, thus the divergence from the principle
                           of a land based strategy is not considered to be material. Special cases involving major land losses and the
                           loss of businesses and residences would need to be managed on a case-by-case basis in consultation with
                           the Bank.
Operational Principle 6.   The use of cash compensation for expropriation in Romania differs from the principle that compensation of
Preference for a Land      people displaced from land-based livelihoods and expropriation should be land based. Given the complex


                                                                                                                     9
Based Strategy.            landholding situation in Romania and the lack of availability of State land that could be traded, and given
                           the availability of private land for purchase and open access to the land market, the current arrangement
                           is adequate to enable affected households to pursue a land based solution on their own, if they so desire.
                           This difference from the principle is therefore not considered to be significant.
Operational Principle 7.   Informants indicated little experience expropriating land used by people who are without use or
Provide Resettlement       ownership rights. Romanian law does not make specific provision to compensate people without legal
Assistance to those        rights to land, although they may be eligible to claim damages (prejudice). It is not expected that the pilot
Without Formal Legal       projects will encounter such situations, and Bank and Romanian authorities will establish a mechanism to
Rights to Land.            address this issue in the unlikely event that people without legal title to land are affected by the pilot
                           projects. Each case should subsequently be monitored.




                  Current and Proposed Measures to Address Gaps

                  Two salient gap-filling measures were explored as a means to achieve
                  equivalence. They are as follows:

                  Notify Owners of Rights and Procedures. An information brochure acceptable
                  to the Bank could be prepared for each government level (national, county and
                  local) that outlines steps in the expropriation process; discusses the valuation
                  and negotiation processes; describes the steps in obtaining compensation for
                  damages (prejudice), including relocation costs and assistance to address impact
                  on livelihoods, if relevant; provides information on the rights of owners at each
                  step of the process and avenues of recourse at each step; and advises on how
                  owners can obtain legal assistance, if needed. The brochure could then be
                  distributed with each letter, notifying an owner of the intent to expropriate. The
                  practice should be specified in any guidance documents and manuals of the
                  respective agencies.
                  Monitor. A local independent monitor could report on expropriation activities
                  and their impacts. The Bank will then monitor the promptness and adequacy of
                  compensation, including prejudice, and the impacts of expropriation during
                  regular supervision missions and recommend steps to resolve significant
                  problems that emerge during implementation as identified by project officials
                  and independent monitors.


                  D. Transfer of the ownership rights for land affected by the Works




                  In view of carrying out the expropriation, in accordance with art. 4 of Law
                  D.1. Measures to be undertaken before starting the expropriation process

                  198/2004, a Government Decision should be adopted, which would approve the
                  works setting, the starting of the expropriation procedure for assets which
                  represent the site, the estimated global sum for compensation, the term within
                  which this amount is transferred in a bank account open in the Expropriator' s
                  name and the financing source.
                  The expropriation, namely the transfer of the ownership title over the land to the
                  municipality occurs immediately, that is at the moment when the owner is paid
                  or is registered a fair amount for compensation, specified in the judgment of the


                                                                                                                   10
committee provided by Law 198/2004. In case when the holder of the
ownership title and/or the holders of other real rights over the land do not agree
with the compensation amount they may address the law court to set out the
compensation amount, in accordance with provisions set by Law no. 33/1994.
Thus, the operating principles under existing law are the following:
       The public utility is declared by the effect of the law, namely Law
       33/1994, for all municipal infrastructure;
   ·

       The expropriation procedure is commenced by the approval of a
       Government Decision, which is based on a technical-economical
   ·

       documentation elaborated by the Expropriator (Municipality of Bucharest
       or Municipality of Arad);
       The compensation for private property including land, residential or
       commercial assets being acquired shall be based on real market value
   ·

       determined by authorized experts (ANEVAR) (Art. 26), i.e. shall be
       equivalent to the replacement cost of those assets;
       The mitigation for prejudice incurred by land expropriation is based on
       the principle of restoration of livelihoods caused by any land
   ·

       expropriation or involuntary resettlement for municipal infrastructure;
For the purposes of this project, prejudice shall include mitigation if the
declaration of public utility involves:
          o Expropriation of 25% percent or more of the agricultural land
            owned by a person(s); or
          o loss of commercial property; or
          o any other form of loss of livelihoods.
       the Expropriator shall declare the amount of mitigation based on an
       assessment of the impact of expropriation on the livelihood of the
   ·

       respective affected person, and declare the process through which that
       mitigation shall be made effective;
       Art. 15 of the law allows for the persons dissatisfied by the prejudice
       amount, to appeal before a Commission constituted of Court of Appeal
   ·

       (Art. 20) so established under Law 33/1994;
       The transfer of the ownership to the municipality becomes effective
       immediately after the payment is made or the compensation are
   ·

       registered. Eventual litigation regarding the ownership title will not
       suspend the expropriation procedure.




The people affected by the Project are people who own or have residence or
D.2. Project Affected People

simply live without residence on the land that falls in the alignment of municipal
infrastructure.
They will be identified during the design of the infrastructure, and notified by a
notice made in a local newspaper of administrative units affected by


                                                                               11
expropriation, regarding the date when the expropriation plan shall be made
public at the district council and the list with the affected owners.
In most cases, the land lost will be a narrow strip of land. If an absentee owner
cannot be determined or located, or if there is uncertainty regarding his/her
quality as holder of the ownership title, the amount representing the
compensation is registered in his/her name and shall be issued by the
Expropriator upon request, only to the person who shall make, according to legal
provisions, the ownership proof.
Subprojects involving informal users of properties (encroachers, non-registered
businesses, etc.) will not be eligible for Bank financing.
No land acquisition or resettlement will be undertaken that affects more than
200 persons.




The land acquisition process related to Project investments will be undertaken
D.3. Responsibility and Funding

by the Municipality of Bucharest or Municipality of Arad, based on topographical
surveys and expropriation plan. The Land Acquisition unit/ dept of the
Municipality keeps an evidence of the steps carried out, which will be available
for review during Bank supervision.
The Municipality registers the amounts representing the compensation and any
prejudice for the land being acquired from an amount approved by the Municipal
Council Decision for the commencement of the expropriation procedure, and
pays accordingly the amount set out on the basis of the evaluation reports
elaborated by the authorized experts.
The land acquisition transfer must be fully completed including payment of any
compensation owed, before any work can begin on such piece of land.


D.4. Description of an expropriation process undertaken by the
Municipality of Bucharest (similar to the process to be undertake by
Municipality of Arad)


   1. Government decision
The expropriation is started by approving a Government Decision, based on a
technical-economical documentation elaborated by the Expropriator
(Municipality of Bucharest).
   2. Expropriation Publicity
The plan with the works layout is made public by being posted in the Bucharest
Municipality and district council headquarters, where it must remain until the
compensation procedure is completely finished. The plan specifying the work
site shall be published also in a local newspaper. Within 15 days from
publication, the proposals for the expropriation shall be notified by letter to the
physical or legal entities, titular of real rights.



                                                                                12
   3. Submission of compensation requests
In connection with the expropriation proposals, the owners and titular of other
real rights over the properties in discussion may make appeals in a 45 days'
period after having received the notification. The request for payment of
compensation with all supporting documents shall be submitted within 30 days
since the Expropriation Decision entered into force, to the headquarters of
Bucharest Municipality (or the district council on the territory within which the
building is located).
The request shall be accompanied with all supporting documents requested by
the law. The request will include the following items:
          a) The name and the surname of interested person
          b) Home address
          c) The supporting documents to proof the existence of the real right
             over the property to be expropriated, in original or legalized
             copies;
          d) The proposed value for compensation;
In case there is more than one owner interested in the property to be
expropriated, the petition shall be signed by everybody, personally, or through a
special mandate, and the mandate shall be attached to the petition.
      4. Appointment of the expropriation committee and its activity
The Municipality shall appoint, through a decision of the expropriator, a
committee, without legal personality, which will analyze all the requests
received and all their supporting documents, submitted according to the
requirements of art. 5, will prepare a report, issue and communicate the decision
regarding the compensation awarded in order to start the payment procedure or
register the names of the names of persons entitled, according to the law.

The Committee is made up from 5 members, as follows:
   - the mayor of the local administration unit, or in his/her absence the vice-
      mayor;
   - a person representing the Prefecture institution;
   - a person representing the Cadastre and Land Registration Office;
   - 2 persons with legal background representing the expropriator.

After the members of the committee were appointed, the expropriator shall
submit its decision to the General Council of Bucharest Municipality, who has the
obligation to provide, through the secretary of Bucharest Municipality, the
secretary of the Committee, the person in charge with registration, filing and
archiving all the requests and attached documents submitted according to the
provisions of the law.
The Secretary of the Committee shall keep special registers and archives, in
which she/he shall register all the requests and documents in original or
legalized copies. The registers will contain the minimum information, as follows:
          a) date of registration of the request;
          b) name and surname of the petitioner(s);



                                                                              13
          c) the elements of identification of the property for which the
             compensation is requested, such as cadastral number, area, the
             local administrative unit in which the property is situated, the
             owner, or the beneficiary of any other right;
          d) the documents attached to the request.


Within 10 days from starting its activity, the Committee shall analyze all the
requests and documents attached and, depending on each case:
   a) finds the file complete and calls the petitioner(s) in writing, using postal
      services, with receipt confirmation, to sign the records.
   b) Finds the file incomplete and convokes the titular (s) of the petition, in
      writing, through postal services, with receipt confirmation within the
      period foreseen by the law, to provide all the missing documents and sign
      the records.


The Letter of Convocation will indicate the date, hours and the location where
the meeting in which the records will be signed and all the identification
elements of the property to be expropriated will be presented, such as: cadastral
number, the number of the land book, the value of the compensation, determined
on the basis of the evaluation, and, as case might be the analysis of all the
documents supporting the petition.
In case the owner of the property right, of any other real right is known ­ has
been identified based on the land book records, or extracts from the land book,
or on the cadastral records, property deed, the records of possession, on the
actual possession, on agricultural registers and / or any other documents /facts
which have a juridical effect according to the law ­ does not file a petition or
does not submits the documents requested to sustain the petition, after expiry
date of this obligation, the Committee will mentions this in its records, and shall
decide in this respect and communicate its decision according to article 7 of the
law. The amounts due as compensation will be recorded by the expropriator on
the name of the person / persons identified through the procedure described
above.
In case nobody submitted a petition, and the juridical ­ cadastral documentation
required by the law was based on the documents provided by the cadastral
offices and Land Registration Office and / or Local Councils of the administrative
units, and from these documents the addresses of the owners of property rights
cannot be identified, the Committee will record this, and decide in this respect
the amount due as compensation. The notification of compensation shall be
posted at the headquarters of the Local Council / Bucharest Municipality Council,
and the written records of the measures taken shall be performed according to
the procedure imposed by the law.
In the cases foreseen at articles (15) and (16), the person entitled has the option
to file its petition in front of the expropriator, supported by all the documents
required by the law, or through a final and irrevocable court decision, and to
request the compensation, according to the law.


                                                                                14
In case the interested person filed the petition, submitted all the documents
within the deadline imposed by the law, and agrees with the amount proposed as
compensation, a record shall be signed in this respect between this person and
the Committee, and the above mentioned amount shall be mentioned. The
records shall be signed by all the members of the Committee and the interested
person.
In case the entitled person does not agree with the amount proposed as
compensation, the Committee has the obligation to mention this in its records,
and also to indicate that the entitled person has the right to address the issue in
front of the court, according to the provisions of article 21- 27 of Law no.
33/1994. The records shall be signed by the members of the Committee and the
person entitled, or record shall be made on the fact that the entitled person
cannot sign or refuses to do so.
In case the person has filed a petition, but failed to provide all the supporting
documents proving its quality within the deadline imposed by the law, the
Committee shall record this fact, and decide according to the provisions of article
7 of the Law.
In case the co-owners agree with the amount proposed as compensation, a
record shall be signed between these and the members of the Committee. Based
on this record, the Committee shall issue its decision, and order the payment in
the account number indicated by these persons. In case the co-owner cannot
indicate an account number in which the payment shall be made, based on the
expropriator decision, all the amounts shall be recorded on everybody's name.
In case the co-owners does not agree with the amount proposed as
compensation, or some of them do not come in front of the Committee, a record
shall be signed between the present co-owners and the Committee in this
respect. In case the co-owners refuse to sign the record, a special mention shall
be made in this respect. Based on this record, the Committee shall issue its
decision, and the amounts due shall be recorded on everybody's name.
In case the same compensation is claimed contradictory by more persons who
considers themselves entitled, and between which there is a juridical file on trial,
the Committee shall require the parties to produce a Certificate of Court Registry
to attest the trial on going. A record shall be signed in this respect. Based on this
record, the Committee shall issue its decision, and the amounts due shall be
recorded on the names of the persons in dispute.
In case the owner of the right has alienated his immobile by simple trade of its
title, or by the trade of its title under private signature, the Committee, together
with at least on of the parties, shall draw a record in which all these aspects shall
be written, and shall advise the parties to proceed with drafting the legal
formalities of alienation. Based on this record, the Committee shall issue its
decision and the amounts due shall be recorded on the names of the parties.
In all the cases mentioned above, the records shall be registered in a unique
numbered and sealed register. The original copies of the records are attached to
the decision awarding the compensation.
In casa that, following, an identification process, it is found out that the owner of
the property right is deceased, and the inheritance procedure has not been


                                                                                  15
opened, or when the Committee is addressed by a person having the quality of
inheritor of the deceased, but does not have a Certificate in this respect, the
Committee shall mention this in its records, and an empowered representative of
the expropriator, in its quality of interested party shall require the opening of the
inheritance procedure in front of the notary in the territory of the last address on
the deceased.
The amounts due as compensation shall be recorded on the names of the
presumed inheritors, with the mention that the amount shall be part of the chart
of heirs. This amount shall be disposed on the expropriator request, based on the
Certificate of Inheritance or on a final and irrevocable court decision.
In case the inheritance procedure has already been opened, the expropriator
shall follow the procedure as described in article 27.
In case that, following an identification process, it is found out that the owner of
the property right is deceased, and the presumed inheritors cannot be known or
identified, the amount proposed as compensation shall be record on the name of
the public notary who has been requested to open the inheritance procedure,
with the mention that the amount shall be part of the chart of heirs. The amount
shall be recorded until the presumed inheritors are decided, and then the
procedure shall follow the provisions set in the second part of article (27), or
until the deadline for declaring the Inheritance Vacant has been met.


In all the cases, the Committee shall issue a decision regarding compensation
within 2 days from drawing date of the record, which shall comprise the
following information:
           a) issuance date and the members of the Committee;
           b) the elements of identification of the estate: county, city, cadastral
              number, land registry number, area, and name of the owner /
              titular;
           c) identification data of the titular of the petition, in case there is a
              petition, name and surname of the persons entitled to be awarded
              the compensation or the mention that no request has been filed
              according to the provisions of article 5 of the law;
           d) agreement or disagreement of the persons entitled to receive the
              compensation regarding the amounts proposed, written in the
              records, or the mention that the persons refused to present
              themselves in front of the Committee;
           e) the value of compensation and the payment method;
           f) the documents based on which the decision has been issued;
           g) the conclusions drawn and the legal provisions applied;
           h) the means of appeal against the decision and the period in which
              can be used.
The decision shall be communicated in original to the titular of the petition and
can be consulted at the headquarters of the expropriator.


                                                                                  16
In case that, according to the Committee decision, the Expropriator records the
compensation in an account number, a copy of the decision will be
communicated also the bank were the account number is opened.
     5. Assessment procedure before awarding the compensation
Within 5 days since the Expropriation Decision entered into force, the
expropriator appoints a committee in order to verify the ownership title or
another real right on the basis of which the request was made and it issues a
judgment regarding the amount of compensation, further to a mutual agreement
with the owner or with the holders of other real rights. This agreement is the
basis for issuance, by the committee, of a decision regarding the compensation
payment.
In case of incomplete documentation regarding the quality of the ownership
holder (or of other real rights), upon request made by the committee, the
compensation claimer is obliged to complete the submitted documentation
within 30 days. Otherwise, the committee will register the compensation in the
claimer's name, but its payment will be made only when the claimer proves
his/her right under provisions of the present law.
     6. Payment/registration of the compensation and transfer of ownership
Within 5 days, but not later than 15 days since the issuance date of the
committee's decision, the expropriator makes, by bank transfer or in cash, the
payment of compensation . The transfer of ownership operates upon
payment/registration.
In case of cash payment, the persons entitled shall present to expropriator
residence or in other place indicated by this, in order to receive the
compensation. The cash payment of compensation shall be done on the basis of
document identification and committee decision, in original or legalized copy.
In case that there is many persons entitled to receive compensation, the cash
payment shall be done to all real rights titular or to their authorized agents by
authentic and special proxy who shall sign for receiving. Many persons can be
represented by one authorized agent.
The registering of compensation shall be done by the expropriator to banks,
according the following procedure:
   (a)    in case that exist only one titular of real rights, who's right is
          recognized by the committee constituted by the expropriator, the
          expropriator shall register the compensation on this name;
   (b)    in case that exist many titular of real rights which not agreed
          regarding the compensation, the expropriator shall register the
          compensation on everyone's name. On demand of expropriator, the
          bank shall remit the compensation to the persons who proved the real
          right in front of expropriator, on the grounds of definitive and
          irrevocable judgment sentence or on the ground of other authentic act
          whereby legalize the agreement of all real rights titular, regarding the
          ratio/proportion of compensation to be do to each of them;




                                                                               17
   (c)     in case that exist many persons who claim contradictorily a real right,
           the expropriator shall register the compensation on the name of every
           parts found in litigation. On expropriator demand, the bank shall remit
           the compensation to the person who prove the real right on the
           grounds of definitive and irrevocable judgment sentence;
   (d)     in case that the one titular or one/some of titular of real rights is/are
           deceased and the inheritance procedure was opened, the expropriator
           shall register the compensation into account of succession in the
           account opened on the notary name who has been requested to open
           the inheritance procedure, with the mention that the amount
           represents a compensation according to the law. This amount shall be
           disposed on the expropriator request, based on the Certificate of
           Inheritance or on a final and irrevocable court decision.
   (e)     In case that the single titular or one/ some of the titular of the real
           right has/have deceased and the inheritance procedure has not been
           opened, the expropriator will require the opening of this procedure. In
           this case the procedure of establishing and awarding the
           compensation is the one described in letter d) above.
At the expropriator request, the bank shall open account on the names of the
persons expropriated, based on the information sent by the expropriator
regarding the names of the persons, elements of identification of the estate, such
as cadastral number, and land registry number. The bank shall pay the amounts
following the expropriator's request, to the person indicated by this.
     7. Appeal in front of the court
The petitions in front of the juridical court, according to art. 9, shall be addressed
to the Tribunal in whose area the property making the object of the cause is
situated. The causes having as object the petitions filed according to art. 9 of the
law are judged in contradictory with the expropriator.
     8. Transfer of the land in public property
The proof of transfer of the land from the private property to the public property
of the Bucharest Municipality, and then in the administration of the Bucharest
Municipality is the Committee decision, issued according to these norms, and at
least one of the following documents:
           a) the copy of the transfer order of the compensation in the account
              of the holder/holders of the real rights, in case on bank account
              transfer;
           b) the deed issued by the public notary in whose office it has been
              opened the procedure of inheritance by the expropriator, and the
              proof of compensation registration, according to legal provisions;
           c) the proof of registration of the compensation in a bank unit.
The expropriator enters into the possession of the land expropriated within 5
calendar days from the payment date, of from the date the compensation has
been recorded.




                                                                                   18
The Expropriator can enter into the possession of land affected by buildings
having the initial destination as homes within 10 days from the date in which the
payment obligation has been fulfilled.
The registration of the public property right, and its subsequent administration
right shall be based on the provisions of Law no .7 / 1996 regarding the Cadastre
and Land registration, republished, in special registries opened in Land Registry
Offices.
     9. Starting Works.
The Municipality will issue a construction permit to begin civil works after
registration of the ownership title over the expropriated land.
     10. Procedure for Administrative Dispute
The expropriated person unsatisfied by the amount of the compensation, as well
as any other person who considers herself entitled to receive compensation for
the expropriation of the building, may address the competent law court within 3
years since the date of entering into force of the Expropriation Decision for
starting the expropriation procedure, or within 15 days since the date of
notification of the committee's decision by which the compensation claim has
been rejected totally or partially.
The action is settled according to the provisions of art. 21-27 of the Law no.
33/1994 regarding the expropriation for reasons of public utility, concerning the
setting of compensation amount. In this case, the payment of compensation is
made by the expropriator within 30 days since the request was made, on the
basis of the legal decision for setting its amount, a decision being definite and
irrevocable.
The law court constitutes an expertise committee consisting of one municipality
representative, one from the Tribunal and one on behalf of the owner(s). The
committee makes an individual assessment of the compensation and of
compensation, compares the results with the offers made by the relevant
municipality and, correspondingly, by the owners, and recommends an amount
that is not less than the expropriator's offer or more than the owner's request.
The judgment of the instance may be carried further in the law court, according
to the common law, by appeal or petition for review.
If the expropriated land contains a dwelling inhabited by owners or renters, the
inhabitants cannot be evacuated until the concerned municipality ensures that
alternative housing has been secured for the inhabitants. Owner occupants can
request direct compensation for the dwelling being expropriated or insist that
the municipality obtain another dwelling to trade. Renters are transferred to
other rental properties on the expenses of the MOB.
**The procedures outlined above are similar to those undertaken by
Municipality of Arad as they are governed by national legislation, and for
purposes of this LAPF will be followed by both municipalities.


E. Compliance with OP/BP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement



                                                                              19
 The procedures described above are in full compliance with the objectives of OP
 4.12:
        the process is transparent and public;
        compensation for land and other assets acquired is fair, being at the
    ·

        replacement cost of affected assets, and paid prior to physical
    ·

        expropriation;
        mitigation for loss of livelihoods (prejudice) is based on the principle of
        restoration of livelihoods; the law allows for the persons dissatisfied by
    ·

        the prejudice amount, to go to law court
        the entire process is documented.
 For purposes of compliance, for each site, the final drawings and expropriation
    ·

 lists, which provide details on parcels, ownership and recommended
 compensation, constitute Land Acquisition Plans.
 Each Plan will be submitted to the Bank for review and No Objection. Until the
 expropriation process is fully completed in a site, the respective Plan will be
 updated every three months, and the municipality project management unit
 (PMU) will report to the Bank every 6 months on the status of land acquisition
 under the project.




                         F.   Eligibility and Entitlements


 The following entitlement matrix describes the eligibility for compensation
 and/or assistance for impacts/losses for different types of assets and categories
 of project affected persons.


                         Table 1: ENTITLEMENT MATRIX




ASSET                                ENTITLED
               TYPE OF IMPACT                    COMPENSATION ENTITLEMENT
ACQUIRED                             PERSON
                                                 · Cash compensation for affected land that it
               ·   Less than 70%     Owner/title   is equal to the replacement cost of the lost
                   of land holding   holder        asset
AGRICULTU
                   affected,
RAL LAND/
               ·   The remaining                     ·   Rehabilitation assistance such as job
 MEADOW                              User of
                   land remains                          placement, skills training and/or use of
  LAND                               land
                   economically                          alternative land/property to re-establish use
                                     without title
                   viable                                such as grazing




                                                                                      20
ASSET                               ENTITLED
              TYPE OF IMPACT                      COMPENSATION ENTITLEMENT
ACQUIRED                            PERSON
                                                  · Cash compensation for the assets at their
                                                    replacement value plus assistance
                                    Owner/title     comprising costs of shifting, allowance
                                    holder          until first harvest, cash compensation, job
              ·   More than 70%                     placement, or job training, transition
                  of land holding                   allowance etc,.
                  affected and                    · Rehabilitation assistance such as job
                  remaining land                    placement, skills training and/or use of
                                    User of
                  is not viable                     alternative land/property to re-establish use
                                    land            such as grazing
                                    without title



                                                    ·   Cash compensation for entire structure and
                                                        other fixed assets without depreciation
                                                    ·   Right to salvage materials without
              Entire structure
BUILDINGS                                               deduction from compensation
              affected
                                                    ·   Rehabilitation assistance if required
                                                        (assistance with job placement, skills
                                                        training)
              Crops affected by
STANDING
              land acquisition or                   ·   Cash compensation equivalent to the
              temporary             Owner               market value for the affected crops
CROPS
              acquisition or
              easement
                                                    ·   Cash compensation based on type, age and
TREES         Trees lost            Owner
                                                        productive value of affected trees
                                                    ·   Cash compensation for any assets affected
TEMPORARY     Temporary
ACQUISITION
                                    Owner               (e.g. boundary wall demolished, trees
              acquisition
                                                        removed)
                                                    ·   Compensation for loss of assets at
                                    Owner               replacement cost
              Bans and                              ·   Cash compensation for loss of income
LAND
              restrictions on                       ·   Rehabilitation assistance such as job
              activities in         User of             placement, skills training and/or use of
              affected area         land                alternative land/property to re-establish use
                                    without title       such as grazing




                                                                                     21
                              Land Acquisition
                              Reporting Format


The Municipality PMU will report to the Bank every 6 months on the status of
land acquisition under the project.

The reporting format to the Bank will be:

                              Date of Report _______

 Name of      Transaction     Physical          Any      Status of Land     Comments
   Sub-       Information     Relocatio     Tenants or    Acquisition
 project                        n of         Informal
                              Property         Users

Investment    Size of land;                              Factual
                              Owners?        Affected?

name          Assessed                                   reporting on:
              price;                                     - the need for
              Negotiated                                 LA,
              price;                                     - the status of
              Actual price                               the LA process
              paid;                                      such as: under
              Transfer date                              negotiations,
                                                         concluded
                                                         (date), awaiting
                                                         court judgment,
                                                         under appeal




                                                                               22
Attachment A

LAW No. 33 of MAY 27th 1994 - Expropriation for the Purpose of Public
Utility

ISSUER: THE PARLIAMENT OF ROMANIA; Published in the National Gazette of
Romania No. 139 of July 2nd 1994

The Parliament of Romania adopts the present law.

For the purpose of some works meant for public utility and keeping in mind the
exceptional character conferred to conceding by means of expropriation of the
private property by the Constitution of Romania and by the Civil Code, right
whose protection is actually accomplished by its being granted and protected the
law equally, irrespective of the titular, the present law is adopted. It consists of
provisions meant to grant both the legal framework adequate to expropriation
and the establishment of compensations and the protection of the right to
private property.

CHAPTER 1
General provisions

ART. 1

Expropriation of properties, totally or partially, may be done only for the cause
of civil service, after a right and former compensation, by means of legal
decision.

ART. 2

Expropriated may be properties owned by physical or legal entities, with or
without operational objects of activity, as well as those privately owned by
communes, towns, municipalities or counties.

ART. 3

Competent courts shall decide upon expropriation only after the public utility
has been declared according to the present law.

ART. 4

Those interested may convene upon the way of transfer of the right of property,
as well as upon the quantum and the nature of the compensation, with the
observance of the legal provisions regarding the content, form and publicity
conditions, without starting the expropriation procedure provided for by the
present law.

In the case when the volition agreement of the party regards only the way of
transfer of the property right, but not the quantum or the nature of the
compensation, the courts shall take note of the understanding of he parties, and


                                                                                 23
they shall establish only the quantum or the nature of the compensation,
according to chapter IV of the present law.

CHAPTER 2

Public utility and its being declared

ART. 5

Public utility is declared for operations of national or local interest.

ART. 6

The following operations are of public utility: geological prospecting and
exploring; extraction and processing of useful mineral substances; installations
for electric power production; communication routes, opening, aligning and
widening streets; systems providing electric power, telecommunications, gas,
thermal power, water sewerage; installations for environmental protection;
installations for embanking, regularizations of rivers, dams for water sources
and attenuation of freshets; derivations of debits for water supply and for
freshets deviations; hydro-meteorological, seismic stations and systems warning
and preventing dangerous natural phenomena and systems warning the
population, irrigation and draining systems; operations combating deep erosion;
properties and properties necessary for social care, public administration and
court headquarters; safeguarding, protecting and valuing monuments, historic
ensembles and sites, as well as national parks, natural reservations natural
monuments; preventing and eliminating the follow-ups of natural disasters ­
earthquakes, floods, land slides; defense of the country, public order and national
security.

ART. 7

The Government, in the case of national interest operations, and the county
councils and the Local Council of the Municipality of Bucharest, in the case of
local interest operations, shall declare the public utility.

For the local interest operations developing on the territory of several counties,
a commission consisting of the presidents of the respective local councils shall
declare public utility. In cases of disagreement, the Government may declare the
public utility.

For operations, other than the ones provided for in Art. 6, public utility shall be
declared for each case, by means of law.

It is also by law that public utility may be declared in exceptional situations, in
the case when ­ irrespective of the operations ­ cult sites, monuments, historic
ensembles and sites, cemeteries, and other locations of special national value,
urban or rural locations are subject o expropriation.

ART. 8



                                                                                24
Declaring public utility may be done only after a preliminary investigation and
under conditions of registering the operation in the urban planning and land
planning, approved according to the law, for localities or areas where the
execution is intended.

ART. 9

Commissions nominated by the Government shall accomplish the preliminary
investigation for the operations of national interest and commissions nominated
by the permanent delegation of the county council or by the Mayor General of
the municipality of Bucharest shall accomplish the preliminary investigations for
operations of local interest.

The commissions nominated by the Government, for operations of national
interest, shall consist of: the representative of the central public administration
coordinating the field of activity for which the public utility operation takes
place, the representative of the Ministry of Public Works and Land planning, he
representative of the Ministry of Finance, the president of the county council and
chiefs of departments involved, as well as the mayors of the localities where the
public utility operation develops.

The commissions for operations of local interest shall consist of: the
representative of the county council or of he Local Council of the Municipality of
Bucharest, as well as representatives of the interested local councils.

The working procedures of the commissions for the preliminary investigations
shall be established by means of regulations approved by the Government.

ART. 10

The preliminary investigations shall establish the existence of elements
justifying the national o local interest, the economic, social, economic advantages
or those of any other type, supporting the need of operations that cannot be
accomplished by any other means than expropriation, as well as the meeting of
the urbanism and land planning plans, approved according to the law.

The results of the preliminary investigations shall be registered in minutes that
shall be submitted to the Government or to the county council, respective to the
Local council of the municipality of Bucharest, accordingly.

ART. 11

The document declaring the public utility of national interest shall be made
public by means of posting it up at the headquarters of the local council on
whose territory the respective property is located and by publishing it in the
National Gazette of Romania, and the document declaring the public utility of
local interest shall be posted at the headquarters of the local council on whose
territory the respective property is located and it shall be published in the local
media.




                                                                                25
Documents through which the public utility for operations regarding the
country's defense and the national security shall not be published.

CHAPTER 3
Measures preliminary to expropriation

ART. 12

After having declared the public utility, the expropriated shall produce plans
consisting of the lands and the constructions to be expropriated, indicating also
he names of the owners, as well as the compensation offers. These documents
shall be deposited at the local council of the commune, town or municipality on
whose territory the properties, subject to the expropriation approval, are
located, with the view to being consulted by the interested ones. Excepted shall
be the documents regarding the country' defense and the national security. In
such cases, it is only the list consisting of the properties proposed to be
expropriated, their owners and the compensation offers that shall be deposited
at the local council.

ART. 13

The proposals for the expropriation and the minutes provided for in Art. 10,
paragraph (2) shall be notified to the physical or legal entities, titular of real
rights, a 15 days' period since the publishing.

ART. 14

In connection with the expropriation proposals, the owners and titular of other
real rights over the properties in discussion may make appeals in a 45 days'
period after having received the notification. The appeal shall be deposited with
the mayor of he commune, town or municipality on whose territory the property
is located.

The mayor shall receive and register the appeal and put down the owners' offers
for compensations as well as their requests or those of the persons titular of
other real rights. In a 30 days' period, the whole file, consisting of all the
documents provided for in Art. 12, as well as the event of the appeal, shall be
submitted to the General Secretariat of the Government, for operations of
national interest, and the ones of local interest shall be submitted to the local
councils or to the Local Council of the Municipality of Bucharest, accordingly.

ART. 15

Appeals shall be solved in a 30 days' period by a commission constituted by
means of Governmental decision for the operations of national interest, and by
means of the decision of the permanent delegation of the county council or by
the instruction of the mayor of the municipality of Bucharest for those
operations of local interest.




                                                                               26
The commission shall consist of 3 experts in the field of activity the operation of
public activity shall be accomplished for, 3 property owners of the municipality,
town or commune in which the expropriation properties are located, selected by
means of drawing of lots of a minimum of 25 owners, as well as by the mayor of
the locality. The commission shall work under the management of a delegate of
the Government, in the case of operations of national interest, or of a delegate of
the county council or of the Local Council of the Municipality of Bucharest, in the
case of operations of local interest, in the capacity as president.

Members of the commissions may not be the property owners in discussion,
neither relatives of theirs up the fourth degree included, nor persons having
capacities in the local or central public administration nor persons having
interest in the execution of the operations, nor members of the commission
having declared the public utility.

ART. 16

The commission constituted according to Art. 15 validly work in the presence of
at least 5 of its members. The decision of he commission shall be taken by means
of ballot. The president does not have a voting right, since he/she ensures the
organizational framework of the activity of the commission. In case of parity, the
mayor's vote shall be preponderant.

ART. 17

The commission shall analyze the displayed documentation, interviewing the
interested ones, having the right to ask for supplementary information and data,
on the request of those having appealed to the commission or ex officio. The
expropriator's offer, owner's claims or of those titular of any other legal rights, as
well as their back-ups shall be formulated in writing and shall be deposited,
being also mentioned in minutes.

ART. 18

After deliberations, the commission may accept or reject the point of view of the
expropriator and they shall mention this in a motivated decision.

The commission will record, if the case, the understanding between the parties,
under their signature. The decision shall be communicated to he parties in a 15
days' period since its adoption.



ART. 19

In the case when the commission rejects the expropriator's proposals, the latter
shall have the possibility to come back with new proposals, with the
corresponding new plans.

The new proposals shall follow the procedure already established in the present
chapter.


                                                                                   27
ART. 20

In the case when the new proposals are rejected, then the expropriator, as well
as the owners or the other persons titular of real rights on the property
proposed for expropriation may contest the decision of the commission,
constituted according to Art. 15 at the Court of Appeal responsible for the
territory where he expropriated property is located, in a 15 days' period after
the communication of the decision, according to the provisions of the Law no.
29/1990, on the administrative contentious.

Any appeal is free of any fee and it shall mainly be solved under emergency state
mainly.

CHAPTER 4
Expropriation and compensation settlement

ART. 21

Expropriation requests shall be solved by the County Courts or by the Court of
the Municipality of Bucharest, according to the location of the property proposed
for expropriation.

The court shall be notified by the expropriator in order to pronounce an opinion
in connection with the expropriation, in the case when no objection has been
deposited in connection with the expropriation or in the case when this appeal
route has been rejected under he circumstances of Art.18 and 20.

ART. 22

The President of the Court shall decide on a term and shall order summoning the
owners, the possessors, other persons titular of real rights or any other known
persons hat can justify a legitimate interest over the properties proposed for
expropriation.

ART. 23

The request of expropriation shall be solved with the obligatory participation of
the Prosecutor. The court shall verify whether all the legal conditions are met for
expropriation and it shall establish the quantum of compensations and the
amount due to each and every party provided for in Art. 22. The decision is
subject to appeal routes provided for by the law.

ART. 24

In the case when the parties reach an understanding in connection with the
expropriation and the compensations in the court, the latter shall take note and
shall pronounce a final decision.

When the parties or only part of them reach an understanding only in connection
with the expropriation, but not in connection with the compensations, the court



                                                                                28
shall take note about the understanding and shall decide upon the
compensations.

In the case when one or several parts titular of rights on properties do not show
at the court, though legally summoned, then the court shall decide in their
absence.

In the case when the expropriator requests only part of the property, land or
building, and the owner requests total expropriation, the court shall decide,
depending on the real situation, whether the partial expropriation is possible. If
not, total expropriation shall b decided.

ART. 25

In order to establish the compensations, the court shall constitute a
commission consisting of an expert nominated by the court, one nominated
by the expropriator and one nominated by the persons subject to
expropriation.

ART. 26

The compensation consists of the real value of the property and of the
prejudice caused to the owner or other persons set to rights.

When calculating the quantum of the compensations, the experts, as well as
the court, shall take into consideration the prices the properties of the
same type in the administratively territorial units currently have, on the
date of the expertise report, as well as the compensation brought to he
owner or, accordingly, to other persons in due right, taking into
consideration the proofs presented thereto.

Experts shall list the compensations due to the owner and those due to
other persons, titular of real rights.

In the case of partial expropriation, if the part of property left un-expropriated
will gain added value consequently to the operations implemented, experts,
keeping in mind the provisions of the former paragraph, shall have the
possibility to suggest a certain reduction of the compensations to the court.

ART. 27

On receiving the results of the expertise, the court shall compare them with the
requests formulated by the parties and shall take a decision.

The compensations granted by the court shall not be smaller than the one
offered by the expropriator and neither larger than the one requested by the
expropriated or by the interested person.

ART. 28




                                                                               29
The transfer of the right of property over the goods subject to expropriation in
the expropriator's patrimony shall take place immediately having fulfilled the
obligations decided upon by the court.

The mortgage and the privilege shall rightfully pass over the established
compensations, the provisions of Art. 22 remaining applicable, and he servitudes
by man's deeds shall no longer exist, in the measure they become incompatible
with the natural and legal situation of he objective intended by means of
expropriation, the obligatory relationships between the former and the new
owner of the property being subject to common law.

The use, the life interest, the habitation and the superficies and any other real
rights, as well as the lease and the forwarding to use shall be stopped by means
of the effect of expropriation, the titular persons having the right to
compensations.

The expropriation decision shall be established keeping in mind the provisions
of Art. 26, for real rights provided for in paragraph 3.

ART. 29

Any location shall lawfully stop on the date of its final expropriation decision.

In the case of expropriation of a building for habitation, the evacuation of the
persons occupying the building legally, in their capacity as owner and of the
tenant, whose tenant contract has been legally drawn, before registering the
building in the urban and land planning plans, shall be possible only after the
expropriator having granted a habitation, according to the law, on the request of
these persons, in the ways provided for by the legal decision of expropriation,
with the observance of the provisions of Art. 26.

CHAPTER 5
Payment of compensations and putting into possession of the expropriator

ART. 30

Payment of compensations shall be done in any way convened upon by the
parties; in lack of an agreement of the parties, the court shall decide, establishing
the payment term, that will not be lager than 30 days, after the date of the final
decision.

ART. 31

The execution document issuance and the putting into possession of the
expropriator shall be done only on the basis of a decision of the court, notifying
the accomplishment of the obligations regarding the compensations, no later
than 30 days after the date of the payment.




                                                                                    30
The putting into possession for cultivated lands or of those with plantations shall
be done only after having gathered the crops, except for the cases when the value
of the compensation includes also an estimate value of the un-gathered crops.

ART. 32

In cases of extreme emergency, imposed by he immediate execution of some
operations important for the defense of the country, of the public order and the
national security, and in cases of national disasters, the court, taking note about
the fact that the public utility has been declared, may order the immediate
putting into possession of the expropriator, with the obligation to register, in a
30 days' period, the amounts established for compensations, according to the
procedures provided for.

ART. 33

In situations when there are privileged creditors or any other type of creditors
established by means of court decision, they shall be paid from the rights of
compensations. For their payments, the expropriator shall register the amounts,
and they shall be distributed according to the civil sentence.

CHAPTER 6
The right to use and retrocede

ART. 34

If the expropriated property is offered to lease before its use for the purpose of
its expropriation, and the expropriator is in the position to use it, the
expropriator has the prior right to become tenant according to the law.

ART. 35

If the expropriated goods have not been used in a one-year's period according to
the purpose they have been taken from the expropriated, that is the operations
have not started yet, the former owners may request for the property to be retro
ceded, unless a new declaration of public utility has been drawn.

ART. 36

The request for retroceding shall be addressed to the court, which shall order the
retroceding, after having checked its accuracy.

In such a situation, the price of the property shall be established as in the
situation of the expropriation and it may not be larger than the up-dated
compensations.

ART. 37

In the case when the operations, for which the expropriation was done, have not
been accomplished, and the expropriator wishes to alienate the property, the
expropriated former owner has a prior right to obtaining it at a price that should


                                                                                31
not be larger than the updated compensation. To this purpose, the expropriator
shall notify the former owner in writing, and if he later does not wish to
purchase the property back or if he/she does not answer the notification in a 60
days' period after having received the notification, the expropriator may use the
property the way he wishes.

CHAPTER 7
Final provisions

ART. 38

All expenses for the accomplishment of the expropriation and retro ceding
procedures, those for the court included, shall be in the charge of the
expropriator.

ART. 39

The plans due to be executed, according to the provisions of Art. 12 of the
present law, by the expropriator shall be advised by the territorial cadastre
offices, for authentication and non-changing, for each and every case.

ART. 40

The provisions of the present law shall be completed with the ones of the Civil
Code and those of the Code for Civil Procedure, in that measure in which they are
not contrary to the present law.

ART. 41

The Decree of the State Council no. 467/1979 regarding the evaluation of
buildings, lands and plantations that are to be taken in the State ownership by
means of expropriation and of other cases provided for by the law, published in
the National Gazette of Romania no.3 of January 4th 1980, as well as any other
contrary dispositions shall be abrogated.

The present law has been adopted by the Senate in its meeting of April 28th 1994,
with the observance of the provisions of Art. 74, paragraph (1) of the
Constitution of Romania.

PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE professor dr. OLIVIU GHERMAN

The present law has been adopted by the Chamber of Deputies in its meeting of
May 3rd 1994, with the observance of the provisions of Art. 74, paragraph (1) of
the Constitution of Romania.

PRESIDENT OF THE CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES ADRIAN NASTASE




                                                                              32
Attachment B

Equivalence of the Romanian Applicable Law with OP/BP 4.12

The similarities and differences between principles in OP/BP 4.12 and Romanian
legal requirements and practices are highlighted below.
                                                       OBJECTIVE
OP/BP 4.12 Objective: To avoid         Romanian Law : The Romanian Constitution protects private property and
or      minimize        involuntary    provides that "nobody may be expropriated unless for a cause of public use,
resettlement and, where this is        established according to law, subject to a fair and prior compensation" (Art.
not feasible, to assist displaced      44, para.3.6).
persons in improving or at least        These provisions were further elaborated in the Expropriation Law (Law
restoring their livelihoods and        33/1994) and Government Resolution 583/1994, which establish a standard
standards of living in real terms      that applies to all levels of government. Each act of expropriation is based on
relative to pre-displacement           a request for an expropriation decision, which must justify "the national or
levels or to levels prevailing prior   local interest, the economical-social, environmental or any other kind of
to the beginning of project            advantages that justify the necessary character of works and could not be
implementation, whichever is           carried out except by means of expropriation (Art. 10 Expropriation Law).
higher.                                The Expropriation Law is based on the assumption that compensation at
                                       market value and "prejudice" (real value of the premises and the prejudice
                                       caused to the owner or other entitled persons (Art. 26, Expropriation Law)
                                       should be adequate to enable the affected people to maintain the value of
                                       their assets and, if relevant, to re-establish themselves under similar
                                       circumstances.
                                        Article 26 of the Expropriation Law loosely characterizes prejudice as
                                       "damages caused to the owner or, if the case may be, to other entitled
                                       persons, also considering the justification submitted by them." The Civil Code
                                       defines prejudice as "damage effectively suffered and unrealized benefits."
                                       Expropriation cancels tenancy agreements and the tenants are "entitled to
                                       compensation" (Art. 28, Expropriation Law). It appears that prejudice thus
                                       covers impacts on income and livelihoods beyond the cost of affected assets,
                                       including impacts on third parties.

     OP/BP 4.12 Operation                                             Romanian Law
           Principles
Operational Principle 1. Assess        Article 10 of the Expropriation Law requires a project
all viable alternative project         proponent/expropriator to justify the need for expropriation and to
designs to avoid, where feasible,      demonstrate that the investment cannot occur without expropriation. A
or      minimize     involuntary       commission (at national, county or local level) is set up to review each
resettlement                           proposal, obtain technical inputs from government agencies and inputs from
                                       interest parties, and recommend an expropriation decision or return the
                                       proposal to the project proponent. Various agencies and ministries also
                                       append specific requirements that must be fulfilled in the Technical Design.
                                       The process is essentially repeated when the Technical Design is completed
                                       and affected persons are identified.
Operational       Principle     2.     The Expropriation Law does not require a baseline census or socio-economic
Through census and socio-              survey. The expropriation request must identify economic and social benefits
economic surveys of the affected       of the investment, however, and the Technical Design includes detailed
population, identify, assess, and      information about land ownership and use (confirmed by the Cadastre Office)
address the potential economic         and estimated value of the land to be expropriated (Art. 12, Expropriation
and social impacts of the project      Law). This constitutes a de facto household census. Cases involving physical
that are caused by involuntary         relocation and loss of access to assets are identified through the process of
taking of land (e.g. relocation or     collecting information for the Technical Design. The loss of income sources or
loss of shelter, loss of assets or     means of livelihood and transition costs can be included in calculations of
access to assets, loss of income       compensation for "prejudice," but they must be claimed by the owner or other
sources or means of livelihood,        affected person.
whether or not the affected            No socio-economic surveys are required for expropriation.
person must move to another


                                                                                                     33
location)     or     involuntary
restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected
areas.

Operational        Principle      3.   Legal expropriation standards and procedures and compensation standards
Identify and address impacts also      apply equally to all aspects of an investment
if they result from other
activities that are (a) directly
and significantly related to the
proposed project, (b) necessary
to achieve its objectives, and (c)
carried out or planned to be
carried out contemporaneously
with the project.
Operational        Principle      4.   Investments must be embedded in urban or regional spatial plans, which are
Consult project-affected persons,      adopted and revised through open meetings. Documentation related to
host communities and local             justifying an investment and implementing it, to obtain a Location Permit
nongovernmental organizations,         and then Construction License, must be posted in County and Local Councils,
as appropriate. Provide them           offices of the expropriator, the official gazette and local newspapers. The
opportunities to participate in        documentation constitutes both expropriation and construction plans,
the planning, implementation,          owners and proposed compensation. The documentation prepared to request
and      monitoring       of     the   an expropriation decision and to obtain a Location Permit, is reviewed by
resettlement program, especially       officials from different agencies. The process is relatively open, although no
in the process of developing and       public meetings are required. Affected persons are not specifically contacted
implementing the procedures for        at this point, but they and all other interested parties have access to officials
determining       eligibility    for   to discuss various aspects directly or submit written questions or objections,
compensation       benefits     and    which are considered in making the decision.
development       assistance     (as   Once the Location Permit is issued, the Technical Design is completed and
documented in a resettlement           posted in the country or local government offices, as well as the office of the
plan), and for establishing            expropriator. Interested parties who have questions or objections can express
appropriate      and      accessible   their reservations in writing to the mayor or head of the county, who
grievance mechanisms. Pay              establishes a commission to review and address each petition and consult
particular attention to the needs      with interested parties. These consultations can lead to revisions of the
of vulnerable groups among             Technical Design. Although there are no resettlement plans, as such, the
those displaced, especially those      documentation for the expropriation decision and the Technical Design can
below the poverty line, the            be seen as a reasonable proxy for a land acquisition or resettlement plan,
landless, the elderly, women and       especially since the system is almost exclusively based on paying cash
children, Indigenous Peoples,          compensation to affected persons for lost assets and opportunities. Grievance
ethnic minorities, or other            mechanisms exist at successive stages in preparation and design of the
displaced persons who may not          investment. Prior to the issue of the Location Permit and completion of the
be protected through national          Technical Design, interested parties can address their concerns regarding
land compensation legislation.         location, alignments and the scope of expropriation to agencies involved in
                                       the decision-making process, the mayor, and negotiation representatives of
                                       the expropriator (Art. 12-19 Expropriation Law).
                                       Expropriation must be concluded before the Construction License is issued.
                                       Once that occurs, affected persons can challenge the level of compensation in
                                       the courts, but cannot reverse the expropriation process. There are no regular
                                       mechanisms for public participation in monitoring the implementation of the
                                       investment and the impact of expropriation, although controversial projects
                                       are generally actively scrutinized by the press.
                                       Eligibility for compensation is consistent and straightforward, including
                                       owners, tenants and other individuals who occupy land to be expropriated
                                       (Art. 28 Expropriation Law). Tenants are compensated for damages and
                                       illegal occupiers can claim compensation for the loss of above ground assets
                                       (Art. 29 Expropriation Law) ("value-added").
                                       There are no special provisions for the vulnerable, minorities or others and,
                                       with the exception of squatters, there appear to be no displaced persons or
                                       minorities who are not protected through national land compensation



                                                                                                      34
                                      legislation.
Operational Principle 5. Inform       Owners are notified by letter of the intent to expropriate, which includes a
displaced persons of their rights,    copy of the minutes of the expropriation decision. Since compensation is in
consult them on options, and          cash, affected people are not given different options; rather, it is assumed that
provide them with technically         they can use the compensation to choose their own options.
and       economically     feasible   (a) Land acquisition must be completed--compensation must be paid and
resettlement alternatives and         titles transferred--before a Construction License is issued for the investment.
needed assistance, including (a)      Compensation must be paid within 30 days of court judgments. Compensation
prompt compensation at full           is at market value, plus prejudice, which is considered sufficient to replace
replacement cost for loss of          assets and restore incomes, and therefore equivalent to replacement cost.
assets attributable to the project;   Occupants without legal titles to affected land can be compensated for their
(b) if there is relocation,           lost above-ground assets, expressed as "value added." Affected persons and
assistance during relocation, and     third parties who seek compensation for prejudice must present their cases to
residual housing, or housing          negotiators or the court. Crop loss is the only form of damage that is explicitly
sites, or agricultural sites of       stated in the law; claims for other losses must be documented by affected
equivalent potential, as required;    persons on a case-by-case basis. They must claim compensation as
(c) transitional support and          "prejudice."
development assistance, such as       (b) Residences are rarely affected. If they are, the residents of expropriated
land        preparation,     credit   properties move to housing arranged by themselves, following negotiation,
facilities,    training   or    job   compensation and the transfer of titles. If they ultimately need to be evicted,
opportunities as required, in         the expropriator must provide another "dwelling space, in conformity with
addition       to     compensation    the law" (Art. 29 Expropriation Law). Tenants and illegal occupants of
measures; (d) cash compensation       expropriated residences, even more rare, will be provided with acceptable
for land when the impact of           alternative housing to which to move (Art. 29 Expropriation Law).
land acquisition on livelihoods is    (c) Relocation costs will be included in compensation for "prejudice." Owners
minor; and (e) provision of civic     and others who have cause must make the claim for damages during the
infrastructure and community          negotiation process or, in court, if their claim is not resolved to their
services as required.                 satisfaction. The court renders final decisions on compensation levels that are
                                      under question. In the absence of strict guidelines, "prejudice" can cover a
                                      range of impacts, but it is up to the claimant to make the case.
                                      (d) Cash compensation is the norm. If most of a parcel is subject to
                                      expropriation, and the remainder is not viable or without value, the owner
                                      can appeal to have the whole parcel expropriated (Art. 24 Expropriation
                                      Law).
                                      (e) No community-wide involuntary physical relocation that would require
                                      the development of new urban infrastructure and services is envisioned under
                                      the pilot projects. The expropriation law will apply to all expropriation
                                      related to project investments. In the unlikely event that an investment
                                      entails the relocation of individual households, people would move to
                                      residences with appropriate infrastructure and community services, rather
                                      than to green field sites.
Operational Principle 6. Give         Expropriation laws and procedures are based on cash compensation at
preference       to     land-based    market rate, which is assumed to enable owners to purchase land to replace
resettlement      strategies   for    the expropriated land. Land replacement is not prohibited by the law, but it is
displaced      persons       whose    not expected and it would be impractical in the Romanian context to make
livelihoods are land-based.           administered land substitution a standard policy, given limited amounts of
                                      state land and the prevalence of ownership issues related to re-privatization
                                      and restitution of previously nationalized lands. Land can be bought and sold
                                      freely in urban and rural areas. The rural land market is open, but it is not
                                      really active, as sales are very limited. All informants claim that owners are
                                      generally
                                      amenable to sell land and buyers can find land easily. Reportedly, those who
                                      lose land to expropriation can readily purchase alternative land from others
                                      who would like to sell. Consequently, as the land market is open and active on
                                      the supply side, affected persons use the market for land and housing, if
                                      needed, and there is sufficient supply of land and housing, a land-based
                                      expropriation strategy is not necessary. Municipalities and local self-
                                      government authorities may own land that can be sold and/or exchanged to
                                      owners of expropriated land on a case-by case basis. When this occurs, if the



                                                                                                     35
                                     alternative plot is either more valuable or less valuable than the expropriated
                                     land, the difference is settled in cash.
Operational Principle 7. For         The expropriator/project developer advises owners about the registration
those without formal legal rights    process for unregistered lands. This is a mutual interest, as lands have to be
to lands or claims to such land      registered to be purchased. People who have been using state land for 30
that could be recognized under       years can apply for ownership and registration (governed by the Civil and
the laws of the country, provide     Civil Procedure Codes). Households living on or using land they do not own
resettlement assistance in lieu of   are only compensated for their "value added" contributions (lost above-
compensation for land to help        ground assets) (Art. 26 and 28 Expropriation Law). There is no specific
improve or at least restore their    provision for resettlement assistance in lieu of compensation for land, except
livelihoods.                         as it would be claimed and included under "prejudice."

Operational       Principle     8.   Proposals for expropriation and Location Permits and Technical Designs are
Disclose draft resettlement plans,   prepared in the local language and made available in the respective county
including documentation of the       or local council office and the expropriator's office and are posted in the
consultation process, in a timely    official gazette and local newspapers before expropriation is initiated.
manner,      before      appraisal   Interested parties, including actual or potential affected persons, can register
formally begins, in an accessible    their concerns verbally or in writing when the expropriation decision is under
place and in a form and              consideration and later, after the Technical Design is completed. No formal
language          that         are   resettlement or land acquisition plans are issued in addition to the
understandable         to     key    documentation required to justify expropriation and the Technical Design,
stakeholders.                        but these documents are essentially equivalent to the plans specified in the
                                     principle. Documentation of the consultation process includes the minutes of
                                     the expropriation decision and the findings of the commission established by
                                     the mayor respond to complaints and objections.
Operational Principle 9. Apply       The principles apply to all aspects of an investment involving expropriation,
the principles described in the      at each level of government, including all subprojects.
involuntary resettlement section
of this Table, as applicable and
relevant, to subprojects requiring
land acquisition.
Operational       Principle    10.   Romanian law and practices do not require monitoring or assessment of the
Design, document, and disclose       impact of expropriation. This is a divergence that will be addressed through
before appraisal of projects         independent monitoring and regular Bank supervision.
involving involuntary restriction
of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, a
participatory process for: (a)
preparing and implementing
project      components;       (b)
establishing eligibility criteria;
(c) agreeing on mitigation
measures that help improve or
restore livelihoods in a manner
that maintains the sustainability
of the park or protected area; (d)
resolving conflicts; and (e)
monitoring implementation.

Operational      Principle    11.    Expropriation must be completed before a Construction License is issued,
Implement        all     relevant    which enables the project proponent/expropriator to start civil works. There
resettlement plans before project    are no restrictions on access that require mitigation.
completion       and      provide
resettlement entitlements before
displacement or restriction of
access. For projects involving
restriction of access, impose the
restrictions in accordance with
the timetable in the plan of


                                                                                                   36
actions.

Operational      Principle    12.   No ongoing monitoring of the expropriation process is required. Similarly, no
Assess whether the objectives of    follow-up assessments are undertaken, as compensation is assumed to be
the resettlement instrument have    adequate unless it is revised by a court decision in response to a challenge.
been achieved, upon completion
of the project, taking account of
the baseline conditions and the
results      of      resettlement
monitoring.




Analysis of Gaps

There are no salient differences between Romanian expropriation laws and
Table A1 of OP 4.12 in the objectives and principles 1, 3, 8, 9 and 11. Principle 10
is not relevant for the pilot projects. The principles in which there are differences
are discussed below, with abbreviated titles of the respective principles.




Operational    Principle       2.   The expropriation documents and Technical Design include information on
Census and Survey.                  household land ownership, which constitutes a proxy for a household census.
                                    This operational principle also requires a baseline household socio-economic
                                    survey to be carried out. However, Romanian expropriation laws and
                                    procedures do not require a survey. The pilot projects primarily involve land
                                    acquisition, not physical relocation, and would not require affected persons to
                                    change occupations, for which a socio-economic survey might have some
                                    value. Therefore, this difference does not compromise the objectives or
                                    outcome of the process and this is not a significant gap that would need to be
                                    filled in order for the projects to be piloted under OP 4.12
Operational     Principle    4.     The consultation and disclosure process is adequate, although a specific
Consultation, Entitlements and      resettlement document is not required. The documents prepared for the
Special Groups.                     Expropriation Decision and the Technical Design can be considered
                                    reasonable proxies for the plan specified in the principle. Eligibility for
                                    compensation is based on documentation of ownership or claims for
                                    damages. Within 15 days of the completion of the Technical Design, which
                                    identifies affected persons specifically, these are notified by letter of the intent
                                    to expropriate, along with a copy of the minutes of the Expropriation
                                    Decision. Negotiation for compensation can be complicated if the land is not
                                    titled and ownership is contested, however. The estimated cost of
                                    expropriation is included in the expropriation request and refined in the
                                    Technical Design, which includes estimates of the value of each parcel.
                                    Affected persons must request compensation for "prejudice," during
                                    negotiation or in the court, if they are not satisfied with the outcome of
                                    negotiations. The process does not give special consideration to the
                                    vulnerable or excluded groups, but that difference is not considered to be
                                    significant if (a) assessed valuation is adequate and consistent and (b) people
                                    are informed of their rights and entitlements. Informants indicated little
                                    experience with the issue of illegal occupation and squatters, and this needs
                                    to be monitored closely during implementation.
Operational  Principle   5.         There are no provisions that require the expropriator to inform people of
Inform People of Rights,            their rights. If information is provided, however, it is cursory and appears to
Compensate  and     Support         be inadequate. This is a salient divergence from the principle which could



                                                                                                      37
Transition.                       have significant impact if it results in compensation below market value and
                                  people are unaware of opportunities to contest the amount. This gap will
                                  have to be filled. Prompt payment of compensation is required, and consistent
                                  with the principle, but violations of this principle in major highway
                                  construction have been reported, thus the issue will need to be monitored
                                  closely during implementation. Property values are assessed by certified
                                  assessors. Informants indicated some discrepancies in the extent to which
                                  specific assessment reports are prepared and whether they are prepared
                                  before or after negotiations. If the reports are prepared before negotiations,
                                  they are not necessarily shared with owners, thus potentially disadvantaging
                                  them in negotiations. This is a salient divergence which will be mitigated by
                                  standardizing the timing of assessments as well as requiring them to be
                                  shared with owners at the start of negotiations. The quality and consistency
                                  of assessors appears to be subject to dispute, which undermines public
                                  confidence in the valuation process and could result in under-valuation,
                                  which would violate the principle. This divergence in practice will be
                                  mitigated. If people are adequately informed about their rights, a
                                  combination of compensation for assets and prejudice should be adequate for
                                  households to restore their assets, livelihoods and, if relevant, transition to
                                  another location. Improving the dissemination of information will help
                                  reduce the likelihood that compensation is inadequate, making the process
                                  and practice equivalent to the principle. To address the divergence in practice
                                  related to information dissemination, the letter that announces the intent to
                                  expropriate will be accompanied by a brochure that clearly describes the
                                  expropriation process and the rights of owners in the process, including the
                                  scope of prejudice. If affected persons are compensated adequately for their
                                  losses, there is land is available for owners to make their own adjustments,
                                  thus the divergence from the principle of a land based strategy is not
                                  considered to be material. Special cases involving major land losses and the
                                  loss of businesses and residences would need to be managed on a case-by-case
                                  basis in consultation with the Bank.
Operational    Principle  6.      The use of cash compensation for expropriation in Romania differs from the
Preference for a Land Based       principle that compensation of people displaced from land-based livelihoods
Strategy.                         and expropriation should be land based. Given the complex landholding
                                  situation in Romania and the lack of availability of State land that could be
                                  traded, and given the availability of private land for purchase and open
                                  access to the land market, the current arrangement is adequate to enable
                                  affected households to pursue a land based solution on their own, if they so
                                  desire. This difference from the principle is therefore not considered to be
                                  significant.
Operational    Principle     7.   Informants indicated little experience expropriating land used by people who
Provide         Resettlement      are without use or ownership rights. Romanian law does not make specific
Assistance to those Without       provision to compensate people without legal rights to land, although they
Formal Legal Rights to Land.      may be eligible to claim damages (prejudice). It is not expected that the pilot
                                  projects will encounter such situations, and Bank and Romanian authorities
                                  will establish a mechanism to address this issue in the unlikely event that
                                  people without legal title to land are affected by the pilot projects. Each case
                                  should subsequently be monitored.




December 2009




                                                                                                38
