Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22443-ID
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38010; SCL-3801A; SCPD-3801S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25.0 MILLION
TO
INDONESIA
FOR
ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT II
June 27, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 million = US$ 89.29
US$ 1.00 = Rp 11,200
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAKUN         State Financial Accounting Agency
BAPEPAM    Capital Markets Supervisory Agency
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DJLK          Directorate of Supervisory for Accountant and Appraisal
IAI           Indonesia Accountancy Institate
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
GAS           Government Accounting System
GFS           Government Financial Statistics
KARs          Regional offices of BAKUN
KPKN          Treasury Office
KTUA          Budget Administration Office
MOF           Ministry of Finance
PAN           Budget Realization Report
PSSU         Project Management Office
ROSCs         Report on the Observations of Standards and Codes
SGV          A consulting firm based in the Phillippines
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:    Mark Baird
Sector Director:    Honil Kharas
Task Manager:    Nancy Chen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
ACCOUNTANCY DEV H
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   8
6. Sustainability                                                                       9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     15
9. Partner Comments                                                                    16
10. Additional Information                                                             16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  26
Annex 7b. Comments By Bakun on the Government Accounting System                        27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Evaluation Summary
The Second Accountancy Development Project was a follow-on project to a number of projects initiated since 1979.
The Project negotiations started in late 1993 and culminated in Board approval in September 1994. The Project
became effective in December 1994. At project closure, the total cost was $19.63 million compared to an estimate
of $25 million at Project appraisal.
Overall Ratings
The Project had two components: the modemization of the Government accounting system (GAS II) and the
enhancement of accounting and auditing standard-setting and enforcement. The first component is rated
unsatisfactory, while the second component is rated satisfactory despite some weaknesses in enforcement. The
overall rating for the Project is unsatisfactory because performance indicators relating to factors such as (i)
outcome, (ii) sustainability, and (iii) institutional development impact are either unsatisfactory, unlikely, or
modest, while the Bank's overall performance is unsatisfactory. The Borrower's performance is the only factor
that is rated satisfactory; however, it is a borderline rating as there are some reservations about the leadership
quality of the implementing agency and the commitment by the Government of the resources necessary for a full
rollout of the first component. In addition, approximately three fourth of the project funds were spent on the first
component-the modemization of Government accounting system.
For these reasons, the Evaluation Summary focuses mainly on issues raised and lessons leamed from the first
component, although some of the lessons are equally applicable to the second component.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the Project were (i) to support the Govemment's strategy to modemize govemment accounting
systems, and (ii), to enhance the credibility and usefulness of financial information for private and public sector
enterprises through the implementation of rigorous qualifying examinations for public accountants, a
comprehensive set of accounting and auditing standards, and the enforcement of these standards.
The Project's overall objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Indonesia.
The Project supports the thrust of the CAS with its emphasis on modemizing government accounting information
systems, and enhancing the credibility and usefulness of financial information for both the public and private
sector enterprises.
The modernization of the Government accounting system component aimed to improve the timeliness, accuracy
and completeness of accounting reports available to agencies' management, the Government, and Parliament to
strengthen their decision-making capacity and accountability. Although this component has been consistently
rated as satisfactory in the Project Status Reports (PSRs) until the December 2000 PSR, it did not and still has not
achieved its original objective of improved timeliness, accuracy and completeness of financial reports to the
primary users, namely, the Govemment and the Parliament. This is due to the fact that the design was flawed
from its inception, when the concepts and scope of the new government accounting system were proposed by SGV,
the consultants who prepared a report as part of the First Polytechnic Project (1979-1984). The ambitious and
impractical nature of the proposal went unnoticed in subsequent years through the Second Polytechnic and First
Accountancy Development Projects. This deficiency was not recognized because of a number of factors:
I. Inappropriate skill mix of the team during the design and supervision stages of the First and Second
Accountancy Development Projects. The team did not include staff with experience in public sector accounting
who would have realized that while the proposed concepts of double entry bookkeeping and balance sheet
accounting are appropriate for private sector organizations, their application in a public sector environment,
especially in a large and geographically diverse country like Indonesia, was a very high risk proposition. This
was particularly true given the scarcity of human resources who have the skills to undertake such a task in
Indonesia.



2. The Second Accountancy Development Project was treated as a pure Information Technology (IT) project,
namely, the conversion of programs and hardware onto a more modem, flexible, and nonproprietary platform
and application software.
3. Even if it could be argued that the design was initially appropriate because the system was a 100 percent
manual system, the potential for significant problems to develop began as far back as 1989, when the decision
was made to convert this manual design to a computerized system without a thorough review of its scope and
structure, and of the risks involved in such a large computer development project.
4. The lack of such a review may have reflected the general belief at the time that information technology was the
solution for improved efficiency through the development of systems that can handle large volumes of similar
transactions. While this may be correct as a generalization, the importance of controls over input processing,
such as account coding in a centralized computer system, was overlooked, and an understanding of basic
accounting controls was lacking by operators of the proposed system.
The second component achieved its stated objectives satisfactorily despite some reservations regarding the
enforcement of standards, particularly relating to nonlisted private sector enterprises. However, it should be noted
that enforcement of standards is a common problem everywhere. The design should have allowed time to
"socialize" the new standards before enforcement.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
As the objective of the first Accountancy Development Project component was shifted from one of accounting
modernization to a pure IT focus in the Second Accountancy Development Project, the performance indicators used
for monitoring purposes became input and process oriented such as deadlines for specifying users' requirements,
number of consultants' days and delivery of system/users training. No mention was made in the performance
indicators of the original objective of timely, accurate and complete accounting reports to meet users' needs.
T'he modernization of the Government accounting system has not been realized after since 1988, 12 years of
implementation. The old pre-GAS I manual system is still in use by BAKUN to produce the PAN (State Budget
Realization) reports to the Government and the Parliament. The plan is to have GAS II ready to produce the PAN
reports for the year ending 31 December 2002. This is a long implementation period for an accounting system that
is intended to be simple in its functionalities. There is, however, no guarantee that this plan will be achieved,
given the current uncertainties arising from the potential impact on systems of a number of recent decisions made
by the Government regarding decentralization, the adoption of full Government Financial Satistics (GFS)
classification framework, and the recent reorganization of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) with its planned changes
to IT systems for the MOF.
It is therefore important that the focus be shifted back to meeting the needs of GAS II's main users, namely, the
Government and the Parliament. Timeliness, accuracy and completeness of PAN reports should become the focus
of activities, to make the system operational as soon as is practicable. It was recommended that BAKUJN be asked
to produce the PAN reports for the period from April to December 2000 by both the GAS II and the pre-GAS I
manual systems. Only bugs relating to PAN reports should be fixed. Once this is done, another interim
performance indicator will be the production of the half-year PAN reports from 1 January to 30 June 2001 using
GAS II. This will be a very useful indicator because it will facilitate the preparation of the actual and forecast
receipts and payments for the year 2001 as the basis for Parliamentary consideration of the 2002 State Budget.
Lessons Learned
Lessons learned arise from a combination of factors that existed at point of entry and during the implementation:
1. There should be an appropriate mix of skills in the design and implementation monitoring teams, to ensure
that project design is appropriate to the needs of users and the country environment and that it remains
relevant throughout the project cycle. It appears that none of the team members at the various stages of the
project had the requisite public sector experience and understanding that would have been helpful in realizing
the ambitious design scope and the risks of implementation of such a project in a public sector environment.



2. Supervision of all projects, especially those involving multi-year systems development, should be frequent and
rigorous. Objective assessments of project status and potential problems should be developed and reported in
aide memoires in a timely manner within the Bank and to the Borrower.
3. Large, complex IT projects should be avoided. For accounting systems, off-the-shelf accounting packages are a
preferable alternative. Modifications to the software and related business processes may be needed to meet user
requirements. For significant changes to the off-the-shelf packages, pilot testing should be required as a risk
mitigation strategy when implementation capacity is limited.
4. Comprehensive risk identification and mitigation strategies should be in place and effectively monitored in
any large and complex information systems project.
5. The definition of "system implementation" for an IT project should specify that software consulting services
must cover, at a minimum, one full production cycle of not less than three months of "live" production, and
that system acceptance should not be signed off until the system has been implemented in a production
environment.
6. The key objective of a project should be reflected in its performance indicators. The performance indicators
used for monitoring purposes should focus on output and outcome rather than input and processes.
7. It is important to acknowledge that there are no explicit Bank procedures which require that follow-on projects
with complex functionalities should be approved only after successful completion of an ICR. This lack of
Bank procedures may have resulted in perpetuating an unsatisfactory project design for an unacceptably long
time.
8. High-level government commitment is crucial for success in any major reform program. This commitment is
needed not only from ministries but also from senior Government officials, who can make or break any reform
efforts simply through their participation,or lack of participation.
9. Human resource capacity of the country should be carefully evaluated prior to the provision of Bank advice on
modernization and reforms.
In summary, managing risks associated with complex financial management projects, particularly those in the
public sector, calls for:
-   stronger commitment at the top;
?   better initial project planning as well as ongoing effective supervision;
*   strong public sector experience in disciplines relevant to the project; and
v   more rigorous risk mitigation strategies.



Project ID: P004019                                        Project Name: ACCOUNTANCY DEV II
Team Leader: Nancy Chen                                    TL Unit: EASFS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: September 18, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ACCOUNTANCY DEV II                              L/C/TFNumber: CPL-38010;
SCL-3801A;
SCPD-3801 S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: FK - Capital Markets Development; FS - Financial
Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/08/1993                               Effective:  12/20/1994
Appraisal:  01/04/1994                                MTR: 11/15/1997
Approval:  09/22/1994                               Closing:  12/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOI
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Guatam S. Kaji
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                 Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Jacques Loubert                            Peter R. Scherer
Team Leader at ICR:   Nancy Chen                                Albert Kennefick, SITA Ramaswani
ICR Primary Author:   Nancy Chen; Thuy Mellor
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context. The Govemment of Indonesia (GOI) had recognized the importance of setting and enforcing standards,
and of generally enhancing the quality and reputation of the accounting profession. The GOI had also recognized
the need for comparable and reliable financial information. Although the Indonesian Accountancy Institute (IAI)
had been active over the past few years in drafting accounting and auditing standards, and in strengthening the
accounting profession, its effectiveness had been limited. The underlying reasons for the ineffectiveness are
complex and include such factors as a lack of strength in its professional membership and a lack of
well-established processes for drafting, reviewing, and approving standards to be issued.
The First Accountancy Development Project (Loan 2940-IND) was designed to (i) modernize the Government's
accounting system; (ii) improve accounting education and training; and (iii) initiate actions for meeting the
financial information requirements of capital markets. Near the end of the implementation phase of the first
project, it was determined that the computerized Govemment Accounting System (GAS), though suitable at the
time, should be enhanced to take advantage of new technology. Specifically, the hardware and application software
should be transferred onto an open system platform and relational database management system using fourth
generation language to ensure its future operational and maintenance viability.
Original Objectives. The objectives of the Second Accountancy Development II project were to support the
Government's strategy to modernize government accounting information systems, and to enhance the credibility
and usefulness of financial information for private and public sector enterprises through the implementation of
rigorous qualifying examinations for public accountants and a comprehensive set of accounting and auditing
standards, and through the enforcement of these standards.
Assessment of Objectives.  The project's overall objectives were appropriate and consistent with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Indonesia, presented to the Executive Directors on 12 April 1994. The
project supported the thrust of the CAS with its emphasis on modernizing govemment accounting information
systems, and enhancing the credibility and usefulness of financial information for both public and private sector
enterprises.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
Assessment of design/components. The project comprised two components: (i) the modernization of the
Govemment Accounting System and (ii) enhancement of private and public sector accounting and auditing
standard-setting and enforcement. Primary activities in the first component included the enhancement and
continued implementation of the Govemment Accounting System, which was originally designed under the First
Accountancy Development Project. The second component addressed the Government's need to ensure that
internationally accepted accounting and auditing standards are issued and enforced for private and listed
companies. This component was also intended to further develop the quality and credibility of Indonesia's
professional accountants through more rigorous testing, licensing and continuing professional education programs.
Component 1: Modernization of Government Accounting System
The objective of this component was to be achieved through the enhancement and continued implementation of a
new accounting system that was originally designed in 1985/1986 and implemented under the First Accountancy
Development Project and through addressing the Ministry of Finance's (MOF) need to better plan and manage its
data communications capabilities. As the project was a follow-on to the First Accountancy Development Project,
the assumption was that the delivery of new software based on then current Information Technology (IT) tools
- 2 -



would achieve the (by this time, unstated) objective of improving timeliness, accuracy, consistency, and
completeness of accounting reports that was first envisaged in 1984 in the proposals prepared by SGV, a consulting
firm based in the Philippines. (Section 11 contains additional background information.)
As the project became effective in December 1994 prior to the closure of the First Accountancy Development
Project (30 June 1995), the project accepted as a given the functional arrangement, accounting framework and
complex accounting and reporting requirements that were developed in 1985-1987. The fact that it took five years
to develop and test the first version of the computerized system with very limited implementation and no
observable improvements apparently did not trigger any question about the system's design or the complexity of its
business requirements.
A number of design and implementation weaknesses in the design of Government Accounting System I (GAS I)
under the First Accountancy Development Project were carried over in a detrimental manner to the design of the
Second Accountancy Development Project. The unresolved GAS I problems can be summarized as follows:
*   Complex functionalities-GAS I was designed as a system with complex functionalities to handle large
volumes of transactions. As such, tight controls should have been developed, but were not, over such activities
as account coding, timely transmission of data from thousands of local agencies to the Central Accounting
System and reconciliation of detailed accounting records with cash balances per bank records. Moreover, GAS
I requires the establishment of a Central State Treasury Accounting System in parallel with the Central
Accounting System. As these two systems maintain records relating to cash balances of the central
Government, it is a fundamental control weakness to place them under the control of two different agencies
without a clear requirement for reconciliation. Consequently, cash balances as shown in the Central
Accounting System may be out of balance with those recorded by the Central State Treasurey Accounting
System.
*   Accounting basis-GAS I required the use of double entry bookkeeping and balance sheet accounting. The
Parliament and Government use the single-entry/cash basis of accounting for budgets and appropriations.
Since the primary purpose of GAS I was to facilitate the preparation of timely, accurate, consistent and
complete reports to the Parliament and Government on actual revenues and expenditures for comparison with
the budgeting and appropriation, and since the Parliament and Government expressed no intention of
changing their single-entry/cash basis of accounting, GAS I should have utilized the same basis. Therefore,
the design of GAS I did not reflect a fundamental management principle-namely, that accounting and
reporting systems are tools for control and accountability by management. Accordingly, they should follow the
same accounting basis as that adopted by Parliament and the Government in its planning and control of
operations. It is not sensible to account and report on a different basis since the recipients of the reports do not
have comparable information to judge performance or accountability.
*   Level of information-GAS I required that expenditures be distinguished between capital and current items at
the program/project level, whereas the budget appropriations to agencies do not require that detailed
distinction be made.
*   Delay in implementation-GAS I was to have been implemented by 30 June 1994. However, the
implementation was delayed.
The design and preparation of GAS II took place before GAS I had been fully implemented and, as a result,
the Second Accountancy Development Project became effective in December 1994 prior to the closure of the
First Accountancy Development Project in June 1995. None of the above problems with GAS I were
highlighted in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the First Accountancy Development Project.
It appears that the above inadequacies in the design and implementation of GAS I were not taken into
consideration in the design of GAS 11, and thus the inadequacies were carried over to GAS II. During the design
and preparation of GAS II, no one questioned:
- 3 -



*   The appropriateness of the functionalities, accounting basis, or level of detail in GAS l; or
*   The reasons for or implications of the delay in implementation of GAS 1.
Rather than reviewing the adequacy of the underlying framework of GAS 1, it was accepted as the starting point for
GAS II, even though it had not yet been implemented. Given the lack of public sector accounting and IT expertise
in Indonesia at the time GAS II was designed, the Bank should have recognized the problems inherent in GAS I
and should have advised the Government appropriately during the design of GAS II.
Component 2: Enhancing the Accounting and Auditing Standard-Setting and Enforcement
The objective appropriately responded to Indonesia's political and economic environment with an increasing
demand for transparency and accountability. Issuance and enforcement of accounting and auditing standards are
one of the most cost-effective means of promoting transparency and good governance.
One noticeable design weakness was the requirement that the development of each set of standards could begin
only after satisfactory issuance of the previous set. Given the heavy reliance on volunteers in the review and public
hearing process, delays in the approval of new standards had eventually led to the cancellation of phase 4 of the
consultant's contract.
3.4 Revised Cormponents:
Not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Not applicable.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Component 1: Modernization of Government Accounting System
The stated objective of this component was the enhancement of GAS I for
asset, liability, and investment accounting, and the continued nation wide
implementation of the new GAS II. The operational objective was the delivery
of hardware, software, communications capabilities and the nation-wide
implementation of GAS II, user training, and specialized training for MOF
technical staff. Within these limited terms of reference, it can be said that the
project achieved its objective. The consultant delivered GAS II software,
installed the software in 17 BAKUN offices, and delivered user and technical
training as specified in the contract by the due dates. Hardware has been
delivered to BAKUJN regional offices and some agencies (hardware was
available in only about 20 percent of agency offices due to budget cutbacks).
However, the facts that the system has not worked as planned 18 months after
the consultants formally completed the contract, the reports are incomplete,
some reports are still awaiting agency confirmation and/or clarification and,
more importantly, the old manual system (that is; the system before GAS I ) is
still in use 12 years after the initiation of the First Accountancy Development
Project indicate serious deficiencies in the planning and execution of the First
and Second Accountancy Projects. The reasons for this state of affairs appear
to be many:
-4-



*   The system requires data from the lowest levels of govemment (namely, program/project) to flow upward
several levels to the central govemrnent accounts. Without stringent control of coding and clear assignment of
responsibility for this control, data becomes unreliable when there are changes to program/project codes either
because of changes in the govemment structure (such as merging or splitting of departments or provinces) or
changes in the uniform chart of accounts structure to comply with Govemment Financial Statistics (GFS)
requirements.
*   The changes in the govemment structure since 1998 and the effects of these changes on the workability of the
system were not recognized or taken into account during the relevant development phase. The current
decentralization moves and the implementation of the full GFS classification framework will ensure an
unstable environment in which the system is likely to be unreliable or perhaps even unworkable for the next
three to five years.
*   Data is currently received by BAKUN's regional offices (KARs) from the relevant regional offices of budget
administration (KTUAs) about one and a half months after payments are made by the regional offices of the
Central State Treasury (KPKNs). An additional minimum of one month is required for processing by the
KARs if there are no major errors or unusual transactions. Thus, timely reporting is almost impossible right
from the start of the process.
*   The design of the system requires the timely cooperation of all units of all agencies to verify data and to
provide prompt feedback to KARs for data correction purposes. Unless this cooperation is forthcoming, the
outputs of the system are unreliable or incomplete; in some cases the whole reporting process may not be
completed if data from the lowest level is wrongly coded. This cooperation has been patchy, resulting in
incomplete and untimely reporting. It is understood that BAKUN has been working on improving this
cooperation and that some improvement has been achieved.
*   The consultants did not deliver standard operating procedures or reconciliation programs for the reporting unit
in the BAKUN head office because of a difference of opinion as to whether this was part of the contract. Thus,
the reconciliation and verification of PAN reports (PAN report is a budget realization report to Parliament, an
ex post account of the result of funds for govemment operations) with other independently prepared reports,
such as those produced by the Directorate General, Budget, or by agencies, have been manually undertaken by
BAKUN head office staff. This is time consuming and has generated a lack of confidence in the accuracy of
GAS II reports.
*   To date there are still program errors that need fixing. This may be a bigger challenge when the system is
rolled out to all agencies. At present, only about 20 percent of the agencies have computers to enable usage of
the system at the lower levels.
*   The Terms of Reference allowed the consultants to formally conclude their deliverables under the contract at
the end of March 1999. This was well before the start of live implementation in August 1999. The procedures
for the acceptance testing were inadequate in detecting any programming/systems errors. Scarce IT skills and
resources in BAKUN have made implementation progress and correction of bugs identified during live
production very slow.
Component 2: Enhancing the Accounting and Auditing Standard-Setting and
Enforcement
As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the objective of this component
was to address the Govemment's need to ensure that intemationally accepted
accounting and auditing standards are issued and enforced for private and
public sector enterprises. The principal means of enforcing accounting and
auditing standards are applied through the Capital Markets Supervisory
Agency (BAPEPAM). It can be said that while the objective of issuing
accounting and auditing standards has been largely achieved, the objective of
- 5 -



enforcing the standards has not been met. Key performance indicators with
respect to enforcement were not built into the project design, and consequently
there appears to be a disconnect between the actual output and project
objectives with respect to enforcement of standards.  The performance
indicators (Annex 1) clearly indicate that the goals of this subcomponent are to
assist BAPEPAM in the production of capital markets rules and in the training
of its staff with respect to their supporting role in self-regulation of the capital
markets through overseas short-term courses and a masters degree program.
In other words, the focus was on development of regulations and the technical
competency of BAPEPAM staff. It could be interpreted that an assumption
was made that the existence of rules and standards and better skill sets by staff
would automatically lead to enforcement. In reality, existence of standards and
regulations does not by itself ensure enforcement.
A recent study (funded by the Asian Development Bank, ADB) was carried out
by a reputable international consulting firm that examined the extent of
compliance by listed companies with the Indonesia accounting standards and
BAPEPAM rules on accounting. The study found evidence to suggest that
noncompliance with a number of disclosure items has the potential of
distorting the financial statements of most of Indonesia's listed companies and
misleading the users of financial information.  A process is yet to be
established to ensure that all necessary steps are taken so that listed companies
fully comply with the current accounting standards and BAPEPAM rules.
Furthermore, since the objective is to enhance the credibility and usefulness of
financial information of private and public enterprises and the enforcement of
the standards, it could be assumed that the enforcement should cover both the
private and public listed enterprises. The design of this component assumed
that the principal means of enforcement is applied through BAPEPAM only,
which automatically excludes the private enterprises. Consequently, there are
no performance indicators addressing the enforcement of accounting and
auditing standards for the private enterprises. On balance, however, this
project component appears to have achieved its major objectives despite the
weaknesses in enforcement.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Modernization of Government Accounting System
Specific outputs include:
*   Hardware, software, and communications capabilities;
* Nation wide implementation of Government Accounting System II (GAS II);
*   User training; and
*   Specialized training for MOF technical staff.
On the basis of the project design and the related contractual terms to carry out
the implementation, the above mentioned outputs were satisfactorily delivered.
However, as the emphasis was placed on IT elements, the performance
indicators and contract agreement with the consultants focused on the process
and inputs, such as how many consulting days were needed for software
development, how many computers were to be purchased, and deliverables
such as the work plan, a system requirements specifications document or
system documentation (technical manual) and source programs. The delivery
- 6 -



of a working production system seems to have been lost in the process.
Therefore, the project's outcome is considered unsatisfactory, as it failed to
achieve the development objective of modemizing the Government Accounting
System.
Component 2: Enhancing the Accounting and Auditing Standard-Setting and
Enforcement
Specific outputs include assisting IAI to:
* Issue 10 accounting standards and 4 auditing standards per year;
* Design and deliver a Professional Accountant's Examination (USAP);
* Design and deliver continuing professional education; and
* Prepare and publish an accountancy magazine.
The above activities covered a period of four years, after which IAI must be
able to continue as the standard-setting and the accounting professional
development body within its own resources.
The component was also intended to support the enhancement of a regulatory
fi-amework, investment fund regulations, and the capacity of BAPEPAM to
carry out its role by improving the technical qualifications of staff through
training.
A number of specific quantitative and qualitative outputs have been delivered:
(i) Accounting and auditing standards
A total of 25 accounting standards and 17 auditing standards have been
approved and issued, compared to 40 accounting standards and 16 auditing
standards required under the project implementation plan. The variance in
accounting standards was due to the cancellation of phase 4 of the consultant's
contract and the reduction of phase 3 to deliver 5 rather than 10 accounting
standards. The cancellation is due to the lack of sufficient time to complete the
contract requirement by project closure. Though a single contract was awarded
with four phases, the development of each set of 10 accounting standards and 4
auditing standards was to begin only after satisfactory issuance of the previous
set.  Since most of the members of the IAI Standards Committee are
volunteers, the review, public hearing, and approval process took longer than
expected. It was generally agreed among DJLK, IAI, and the consultants that
the original objective of completing 40 accounting standards was too
ambitious.
A listing of accounting and auditing standards issued is attached in Appendix
2 (to be prepared).
(ii) Professional Accountant's Examination
Since the design of the Professional Accountant's Examination in 1997 under
the project, USAP has been delivered twice a year, in Jakarta and Surabaya,
respectively. It is mandatory for accountants in public practice to sit for the
examination. IAI has taken ownership of this activity and independently
delivered a USAP in November 2000, with a total of 225 participants, 17 of
whom successfully passed the examination. A total of 184 candidates have
- 7 -



been accredited by the IAI as Certified Public Accountants.
A listing of the number of participants by year and by location is attached in
Appendix 3 (to be prepared).
(iii) Continuing Professional Education
This activity entails the design of continuing professional education (CPE)
courses and delivery of a CPE program to public accountants. Since the
completion of the CPE design in March 1998, CPE programs have been
offered in Jakarta and 19 other cities. IAI became involved in the CPE activity
at an early stage of project implementation. CPE programs conducted outside
Jakarta have been facilitated by IAI branches. The total number of CPE
programs offered in 1998, 1999 and 2000 were 35, 75, and 14, respectively.
Though the program is intended for public accountants and IAI members, the
CPE program attracted many non members and even non accountants in 1999,
as evidenced by a total of 3,277 participants attending the CPE programs in
1999, out of a total of CPE participants of 5,622 between 1998 and 2000. CPE
has become a mandatory requirement for the maintenance of a license to
practice public accounting. As a result of this project sub component, members
of IAI in public practice are expected to complete 120 hours of continuing
professional education within a period of three years. Compliance with this
requirement is closely monitored by IAI.
(iv) Accountancy Magazine
The project has supported the publishing of 24 issues of an accounting
magazine titled Media Accountancy, which is intended to be the main
reference for the accounting profession in Indonesia. At project closure, 49
issues had been published, with approximately 6,000 copies of each edition
distributed. The November 1999 edition was the last edition financed by the
project. To ensure sustainability, IAI established a business unit in April 2000
to publish Media Accountancy on a monthly basis.
(v) Technical Consultancy and Technical Training Program for the Capital
Markets Supervisory Agency (BAPEPAM)
This project sub component has supported BAPEPAM in:
*   Preparing rules on operational procedures and business practices with respect to securities exchanges, broker
dealers, investment funds, investment managers, underwriters, custodians, central depositories, clearing and
settlement institutions, transfer agent services, and investment advisory services.
*   Preparing rules on enforcement and regulatory matters and on the transfer of related technology, focusing on
rules and procedures on criminal investigations of securities fraud, market manipulation, insider trading, and
other violations of securities laws and investigations leading to administrative sanctions. The consultancy also
dealt with rules and policy recommendations regarding licensing, appeals, compliance monitoring, and
handling complaints from investors.
*   Providing long-term and short-tern educational program materials relating to the securities industry, market
surveillance, and securities regulators; conducting in-house training for BAPEPAM officials and staff by
inviting capital markets experts and resource persons, and coordinating with training institutions, foreign
regulators, and securities exchanges in arranging for specialized training programs to suit the specific
requirements of BAPEPAM.
Of the 225 rules drafted, 191 have been issued. The number of rules drafted is
- 8 -



slightly higher than the target under the project implementation plan.
BAPEPAM has benefited from a total of 371 staff-months of technical
consultancy, having developed specialized in-country training for capital
markets professionals.
The number of BAPEPAM staff who participated in the overseas short-course
training is 76, more than the targeted 60. Of the 32 BAPEPAM staff who
attended the masters degree program, 31 graduated.
The outcome of this sub component has increased public awareness and
support for the capital markets regulations and their related implementation,
strengthened the concept of transparency and disclosure for capital markets
players, such as issuers, securities companies, investment managers, and
broker-dealers, and improved the rule-making function of BAPEPAM.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact has been substantial in strengthening the Indonesian accountancy profession,
namely in standard-setting, issuing professional accountancy magazines, conducting professional accountancy
examinations and providing continuing professional education. BAPEPAM, the Capital Markets Agency, has also
benefited from the project in terms of establishing a capital markets framework and enhancing the technical
competency of its staff. The institutional impact was limited, however, for BAKUN because the project failed to
achieve the development objective of modemizing the Govemment Accounting System. Overall, the institutional
development impact is considered to be moderate.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Because the design of the First Accountancy Development project was
conceived in 1987-1988, when the Government was stable and the economy
was going well, it seemed reasonable to assume that the future shape of the
Govemment and its requirements would be similar to the immediate past.
Events such as the 1997 Asian economic crisis and its subsequent impact on
the political environment in Indonesia culminating in the 1998 change of
Govemment made the original assumption of organizational stability
unrealistic.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Component 1: Modernization of Government Accounting System
There seemed to be no leadership at the highest bureaucratic level to consider
the likely impact of environmental or political changes and of consequential
government decisions on day-to-day business operations. It appears that one of
the key lessons leamed from the First Accountancy Development Project had
not been applied in this project. This was the need for high-level intervention
-9-



and leadership "in performing a major task such as implementation of a
government accounting system that encompasses all independent cabinet level
government agencies" [Implementation Completion Report, dated 4 January
1996, of the Accountancy Development Project (LOAN 2940-IND)].
It is understood that the creation of BAKUN as a high-level office followed the
recommendation of the SGV 1984 report. It was intended that BAKUN would
have the responsibility for introducing and maintaining accounting standards
throughout the Government.  It is reasonable, therefore, to assume that
BAKUN would be the source of instruction, advice and guidance on all
accounting matters, and a key player in influencing other offices within MOF
and other agencies to adopt measures that were necessary to ensure the
operational capability of its system. The reality was otherwise, because
BAKUN appears to have reacted to events rather than attempting to influence
them; BAKUN seems to have been a marginal participant in the
decision-making process.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Component 1: Modernization of Government Accounting System
Management effectiveness by BAKUN was also lacking in that the contract
allowed the consultants to claim full performance and disappear from the
project six months before "live production" of the system. It is generally
accepted that live production of a system almost always produces "bugs"
despite intensive testing during development. To have a contract that enables
the consultants to finish before "live" implementation indicates insufficient
attention given to contractual negotiation and inadequate subsequent contract
management.
The ICR of the First Accountancy Development project suggested that a pilot
implementation  by all units and agencies in one province should be
undertaken to ensure that the reports emerging from the new system could be
used as the basis for comprehensive evaluation prior to a full-scale
implementation. It is not apparent that this suggestion was adopted in the
implementation plan prepared by BAKUN.
Component 2: Enhancing the Accounting and Auditing Standard-Setting and
Enforcement
The start-up phase of the project suffered from implementation delays in
finalizing the major consultancy contracts. The component experienced delays
in the review, public hearing, and approval of the standards because of the
heavy reliance on volunteers, who had other commitments.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Discrepancies between the appraisal estimates and actual project costs are
mainly attributable to the cancellation of the loan proceeds (US$ 2.3 million or
9.2%) by the Ministry of Finance, in an effort to reduce the amount of overall
borrowing by the country.
Total amount withdrawn from loan account is $19.63 million leaving
unutilized balance of $1,957,577.24 to be cancelled. Loan cancellation is
- 10 -



delayed owing to an amount of $7,591.32 remaining in the Special Account
which is yet to be recovered.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Government commitment
Component 1: Modernization of Government Accounting System
It is unlikely that the Govemment Accounting System 11 (GAS 11) will be
sustainable in the future, given the current uncertainty regarding the structure
of the Government following decentralization, the lack of control over coding
of accounts to ensure compliance, and the apparent lack of commitment or
appreciation by the Government and high-level bureaucrats to the importance
of this task.
Although decentralization has been announced as Govemment policy since
mid-1999, to date no plan has been provided to enable implementation to be
undertaken at a working level. This is very important for the operational
capability of GAS II because the merging or splitting of programs/projects and
the control relationship between different levels of Government at the
program/project level will have a significant impact on how and what data is
collected. Additionally, as GAS II was created to account and report for all
central Government revenues and expenditures from the lowest level, the
establishment of districts and provinces with their own parliament, budget, and
reporting mechanisms will curtail the scope of the system compared with its
current design.
Policy Environment
Component 1: Modernization of Government Accounting System
The latest reorganization of MOF adds more uncertainty to the future of the
Government accounting system. It is understood that BAPEKSTA has become
the Office of Information Technology and Financial Systems (Badan Informasi
dan Teknologi Keuangan). It is further understood that this office will have the
responsibility for developing a number of financial systems including a
"general financial information system." Some discussions have taken place in
recent months on the concept of "data warehousing" as the depository of all
data on revenues and expenditures of the central Government and its agencies.
According to current planning, this proposal is expected to be realized within 3
years; thereafter, rationalization of all current financial systems will be
undertaken to ensure that data will be collected and stored in one place and
that this will be the only source of data for all applications within MOF. It has
been said that GAS 11 is expected to be part of this proposed system. If this
plan eventuates, impact on GAS II will be very significant because it may not
be an appropriate mechanism for data collection purposes. In addition, work
will be needed to turn GAS II into an application software only that will result
in changes to the system's data structure and operational rules.
Technical Viability
-11-



Component 1: Modernization of Government Accounting System
The adoption of the full GFS classification framework will necessitate changes
to the system's coding and reporting formats. Despite the commitment given
by the Government in its Letter of Intent to the IMF, there has been no
significant development work to implement the decision to adopt GFS with
respect to the budgeting and accounting systems. A ministerial decree was
issued in June 2000 to establish a team to prepare guidelines for conversion of
the State Budget format; the report of this team is not due until April 2001 (or
later).
Component 2: Enhancing the Accounting and Auditing Standard-Setting and
Enforcement
Though IAI has taken the ownership in (i) standard-setting; (ii) the
Professional Accountant's Examination; (iii) continuing professional
education; and (iv) publishing Media Accountancy Magazine, the
sustainability of its activities depends largely on successfully recruiting a
sufficient number of permanent technical staff who can work on the above
mentioned activities on a full-time basis. It is difficult to attract qualified
personnel due to the low remuneration offered by IAI.  Standard-setting
requires the commitment of time and resources of technically competent staff.
At present, there are only three full time staff working on standard-setting.
Given the fact that the staff who are involved in the review, public hearing,
and approval process are mostly volunteers, there is no compelling evidence
that the standard-setting subcomponent will be sustainable.
With regard to the other subcomponents, it is likely that the CPE and
Professional Accountant's Examination subcomponents will be sustainable
because of a designated full time training manager, who became involved in
the activities at the early stage of project implementation and who continues to
be involved. It is also likely that Media Accountancy Magazine will be
sustainable, owing to the establishment by the IAI of a business unit in April
2000, to publish Media Accountancy on a monthly basis.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Component I. Modernization of the Government Accounting System
Given the current lack of confidence in the reports generated by GAS II, the
fact that only 20 percent of agencies have computers on site, and the lack of a
concrete funding plan to overcome this shortage, the old pre-GAS I manual
system is still in use to produce PAN reports. The last reports submitted to
Parliament were for the financial year I April 1998 to 31 March 1999; the
reports for the financial year from I April 1999 to 31March 2000 have been
completed and submitted for audit. There is no plan to check the manual
reports with GAS II outputs, as the new system did not go "live" until August
1999. Thus, the first opportunity to verify the accuracy of GAS II PAN reports
is for the period April to December 2000. It is understood that a decision was
made by BAKUN to continue with the old pre-GAS I manual system for the
period April to December 2000 and for the year 2001. PAN reports for the year
2002 are to be produced by GAS II. This plan was confirmed in the State
Budget Law 2001. This results in a very long implementation period. Some
measure may need to be considered to shorten this timeframe to obtain some
-12-



benefits from the considerable investment in GAS 11 as soon as possible.
Additionally, given the current uncertainty regarding the implementation of
full GFS and of decentralization decisions, and given that the majority of
agencies and units do not have access to suitable computers, a decision may
need to be made to focus on the timely reporting objective to Parliament in the
current year, namely PAN reports for the period April to December 2000.
Unless priority is given to this objective, it is likely that day-to-day fixing of
system and data errors may take precedence over reporting to the primary
client of BAKUN, namely, the Government and the Parliament. It is
understood that this reprioritization does not mean that no reports will be
available to agencies or that work on assets/ liabilities will stop. It means that
accuracy of data at the program/project level will be less important as a
determinant of system operations. Timeliness, accuracy and completeness of
PAN reports will become more important than other elements of the system,
such as asset/liability information and information for program/project
managers. It is also understood that BAKUN has undertaken a brief feasibility
review to determine if such reprioritization is workable. Preliminary
indications are positive and there should not be any major impact on the
operations of the system.
This reprioritization is a reasonable interim step to obtain some benefits from
the investment in GAS II to date. It is also a reasonable decision given the
current uncertainty about decentralization and about linkages (if any) between
reporting by different levels of Government and the impact of the recent
reorganization of MOF, especially in view of the plan to implement a "general
financial information system."
Regarding the interim performance indicators, BAKUN should be asked to
produce a PAN report using GAS II for the six months to 30 June 2001. Then
they should compare the June report with the current manual report to identify
any discrepancies. The reconciliation between the computerized report and the
manual report is necessary to test the interim work.
A public sector financial management reform mission took place from 12 to 15
February 2001. It was recommended by the Bank to the Government that a
diagnostic review be conducted prior to undertaking any future work on the
Government Accounting System.
Component 11: Enhancing the Accounting and Auditing Standard-Setting and
Enforcement
Indonesia could be a good candidate for the Report on the Observations of
Standards and Codes (ROSCs) review which is currently being undertaken by
the Bank. ROSCs review focuses on corporate governance, accounting, and
auditing standards.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Component 1: Modernization of Government Accounting System
- 13-



As this was a follow-on project, it became effective in July 1994 before the
closure of the First Accountancy Development Project on 30 June 1995. Thus,
the objective and scope of the project were unchanged-namely, the
enhancement and continued implementation of a new Govemment accounting
system, which was originally designed under the First Accountancy
Development Project. There is no evidence to suggest that any attempt was
made to determine whether the basic requirements determined back in 1985-86
were still appropriate, namely a centralized accounting system to collect and
account for receipts and payments incurred at the lowest level. The fact that it
had taken nearly ten years to develop a modern Government accounting system
without any tangible benefit appears to have been lost in the effort to get the
loan and the project off the ground.
Another possible explanation for the lack of critical analysis was the focus on
the power of IT as a solution. Bank staff appeared to assume that given that
the implementation of the system under the First Accountancy Development
Project was slow because of the use of old technology, the conversion to newer,
more flexible technology would solve the problem. This may reflect the
inadequate skill mix of the project team at the time; the team did not appear to
include accounting expertise, especially public sector accounting knowledge,
even though this was essentially an accounting project. This IT focus also
manifested itself in the fact that no review was thought necessary in either
1989 or 1994, even though the system was originally designed for manual
operations. The scope and functionalities designed for manual operations may
have been suitable in the original 1985-1986 design because the control over
data collection and classification was undertaken by supervisory staff at
successive reporting levels. It might not have been necessary to have tight
control over coding of each transaction in a manual system, whereas stringent
control over account coding for each transaction is critical in a centralized
computer system.
This bias was also reflected in the contractual and monitoring arrangements
adopted for the project.  Both the contract with the consultants and the
milestones and key performance indicators focused on the delivery of hardware
and software, user and technical manuals, inputs, and processes (that is;
staff-months, number of software licences purchased, and number of training
sessions delivered). The initial objective of improving accounting practices
through the timely, accurate, consistent, and complete reporting to the
Parliament, Government, agency heads, and program/project managers (that
is; the desired outcome) was not reflected in any performance indicator for
monitoring purposes.
This may also be a factor in the inadequate assessment of the implementation
risk. The description of services included in the contract with the consultants
emphasized various deliverables and their timing, while implementation was
defined as "a phased GAS II installation and production start-up in all regional
sites to be covered during a given implementation period." Given the delay in
finalizing the contract, the focus was therefore on the deliverables, with
software installation being carried out in the last few months of the contract.
Thus, there was no testing of the software in a live production environment
prior to the conclusion of the contract.
A pilot implementation of the new accounting system covering all agencies
(using live data) in a selected province was recommended in the ICR of the
- 14 -



First Accountancy Development Project. However, this does not seem to have
been taken into account in the initial planning or subsequent mid-term review
or supervision missions.
Component 2: Enhancing the Accounting and Auditing Standard-Setting and
Enforcement
The project design substantially reflected the Government's accountancy
development strategy recognizing the importance of setting and enforcing
standards and enhancing the credibility and usefulness of financial information
for private and public sector enterprises. However, it appears that the design
assumed that the principal means of enforcing the standards is applied through
BAPEPAM, while BAPEPAM, as the capital markets supervisory agency, is
responsible only for the enforcement of standards for public listed companies,
not private enterprises. Thus, the design did not include the enforcement of
standards for private enterprises.
Another design weakness that was not detected at the preparation stage is the
lack of performance indicators regarding the enforcement of standards by
BAPEPAM. Section 4.1 contains a more detailed discussion of this matter.
7.2 Supervision:
Component 1: Modernization of Government Accounting System
In terms of the stated objectives and agreed monitoring arrangements,
supervision by Bank staff is rated as satisfactory. However, the decisions made
in the earlier project regarding the scope and functionalities of the system and
the faith in IT seemed to color judgments, even when there was evidence that a
successful conclusion of the project might be in jeopardy; that is, the
implementation of the system in a live production environment was passed to
the implementing agency's staff without help from the specialist consultants.
There should have been concems about the risk of such a plan in early 1999.
The supervision team should have worked more closely with BAKUN to
address the issues that surfaced during the live implementation in 1999, rather
than rating project implementation as satisfactory in the Project Status Report.
The fact that the "new" Government Accounting System has not produced
reliable, timely, and complete reports almost 15 years after its initial
development supports the contention that it is an accounting and management
issue and not just an IT issue.
Annex 7 indicates that there seems to be no mission aide memoire prepared
between October 1995 and February 1999. The project would have benefited
from more regular supervision missions and frequent reporting for both the
Government and Bank management, and from a candid assessment of project
performance.
Component 2: Enhancing Accounting and Auditing Standard-Setting and
Enforcement
Prior to mid-1998, the Bank had engaged an expert in accounting to supervise
the standard-setting and enforcement component. Both the 1997 supervision
report and mid-term review report rightfully pointed out the key issues such as
- 15 -



delay in standard-setting due to heavy reliance on volunteers and sustainability
of IAI, owing to difficulties in attracting qualified personnel. However, from
the period of mid-1998 to the end of 1999, the Bank supervision team did not
include any staff with relevant experience in accounting and auditing. As a
result, the accounting and auditing standards drafted were not reviewed by the
Bank on a timely basis, to ensure that the standards drafted were in harmony
with intemational standards. The supervision team had not conducted any
impact evaluation of the new accounting/auditing standards, Professional
Accountancy Examinations, CPE, Media Accountancy Magazine, and capital
markets rules.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's performance is judged to be unsatisfactory during the preparation
and supervision of the Modemization of Govemment Accounting system
component because of its failure to address a series of design weaknesses in the
prior project. The performance rating given in PSR was not realistic.
The Bank's performance is judged satisfactory for the Enhancing Accounting
and Auditing Standard-Setting and Enforcement component.
Overall, the Bank's performance is judged to have been unsatisfactory on the
basis of issues discussed above in paragraphs 7.1 and 7.2, especially those
relating to the Modemization of Govemment Accounting System component.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Within the scope of the terms of reference agreed with the Bank in the 1994
SAR, the performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory. Like the Bank
staff, the Govemment agreed too readily to the conceptual proposals made by
the SGV consultants in 1984 on the modemization of Government accounting
practices and systems. A study of public sector accounting practices of
countries in the region and around the world might have provided a reality
check on the feasibility and hidden complexity of what was proposed at the
time. When the decision was made to computerize a system designed for
manual operations, a further opportunity existed to raise questions about the
appropriateness of the system's original scope and structure. None of this was
done by the Govemment.  However, it is considered reasonable for the
Govemment to have relied on advice of Bank staff on technical matters, given
that it was acknowledged by both the Bank and the Government that there was
inadequate accounting and IT expertise and experience within the Indonesian
public sector.
7.5 Government implementation performance.
There is evidence that the Govemment's commitment to modernize its
accounting practices existed initially.   However, political and economic
uncertainty and confusion arising from events in 1998 and 1999 diverted
attention away from "non-core" reforms such as those of this project. Thus,
funding for the acquisition of computers to enable a full rollout of the system
has not been forthcoming in the current year's budget. It is not known when
this funding will be made available, even though by the closure of the project
the Government had already cancelled $2.3 million of the loan balance, with
- 16 -



another $1.45 million (unutilized balance) to be cancelled. The decision to
cancel the loan proceeds, as stated in paragraph 5.4, was to reduce the amount
of borrowing. This decision was not based on the status of the project
implementation.
Similarly, decisions on decentralization and GFS presentation of the State
Budget need to be implemented through changes in the budgeting and
accounting systems. It is not evident, however, that any implementation
planning has been undertaken or that additional resources will be made
available for this purpose. The political uncertainty at the time of this ICR
preparation could once again divert attention from this reform effort.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
BAKUN devoted the resources necessary to ensure that the project was carried
out as planned. However, given that this project encompasses all Government
agencies, high-level management and leadership were needed for successful
implementation. It is difficult to say whether any other agency could have been
more effective, given the economic and political environment of the past few
years.
Except for initial delays in finalizing the consultants' contracts (which were
not exclusively the responsibility of the implementing agencies), BAKUN,
DJLK, and BAPEPAM were effective in project management, including
compliance with audit requirements, procurement, and progress reports.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above analysis, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory for
the Enhancing Accounting and Auditing Standard-Setting and Enforcement
component, but it was unsatisfactory for the Modemization of Government
Accounting System component.
Overall, the Borrower's performance is judged to have been satisfactory,
although the ICR team has reservations about the Govemment's commitment
to implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
Lessons learned arise from a combination of factors that existed at point of entry and during the implementation:
1. Given that the objective of the project was to improve public sector accounting, there is a lesson to be learned
in terms of the Bank's allocation of human resources to design, implement, supervise and evaluate such a
macro financial management-oriented project. There should be an appropriate mix of public sector accounting
and IT skills at various stages of the project cycle, to ensure that project design is appropriate to the needs of
users and the country environment and that it remains relevant throughout the project cycle. It appears that
none of the team members at the various stages of the project had the requisite public sector experience and
understanding that would have been helpful in realizing the ambitious design scope and the risks of
- 17-



implementation of such a project in a public sector environment.
2. Supervision of all projects, especially those involving multi-year systems development, should be frequent and
rigorous. Objective assessments of project status and potential problems should be developed and reported in
aide memoires in a timely manner within the Bank and to the Borrower. It appears that no aide memoires were
prepared for this project between October 1995 and February 1999.
3. Large complex IT projects should be avoided. Experience elsewhere would suggest that the likelihood of large
multi-year systems development initiatives being completed on time, within budget, and with desired
functionality is low. For accounting systems, off-the-shelf accounting packages are a preferable alternative.
Modifications to the software and related business processes may be needed to meet user requirements. For
significant changes to the off-the-shelf packages, pilot testing should be required as a risk mitigation strategy
where implementation capacity is limited.
4. Comprehensive risk identification and mitigation strategies should be in place and effectively monitored in
any large and complex information systems project.
5. The definition of "system implementation" for an IT project should specify that software consulting services
must cover, at a minimum, one full production cycle of not less than three months of live production, and that
system acceptance should not be signed off until the system has been implemented in a production
environment.
6. The key objective of a project should be reflected in its performance indicators. The performance indicators
used for monitoring purposes should focus on output and outcome rather than input and processes.
7. It is important to acknowledge that there are no explicit Bank procedures which require that follow-on projects
with complex functionalities should be approved only after successful completion of an ICR. This lack of
Bank procedures may have resulted in perpetuating an unsatisfactory project design for an unacceptably long
time. If there had been such explicit Bank procedures and if they had been followed for the Second
Polytechnic and the First and Second Accountancy Development Projects, the flaws and hidden complexity of
the original design might have been revealed sooner.
8. High level government commitment is crucial for success in any major reform program. This commitment is
needed not only from ministries but also from senior Govemment officials, who can make or break any reform
efforts simply through their participation or lack of participation. In the Government of Indonesia, the Director
General of Budget (DG Budget), who controls receipts, payments, cash management, and budget reporting,
was not involved in the project. As a result, a key player did not have ownership and accountability of the
project.
9. Human resource capacity of the country should be carefully evaluated prior to the provision of Bank advice on
modemization and reforms. The project objective was far beyond the technical and human resource capacity of
the Government. High-tech solutions will not work without the capacity to operate these systems.
It is important to note that some of the lessons learned (that is, Government commitment and risk mitigation
strategy) were also mentioned in the ICR of the First Accountancy Development Project in 1995. However, there is
no evidence that these lessons had been considered either in the design phase or in the mid-term review of GAS 11
in 1998. It is to be hoped that these and other lessons learned arising from this project will have more impact on
future similar projects.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Please refer to Annex 7b for comments by BAKUN, the implementing agency
for Government Accounting System component.
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 18 -



Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
An understanding of how the GAS II component was developed and evolved is
necessary to understand the current state of its progress.
The idea of modernizing government accounting practices was first mooted in
1979 when the First Polytechnic Project (Cr 869-IND 1979) to improve
accounting education and training was under discussion between the Bank and
the Government. A component of this project called for an extensive study of
the need to modernize Government accounting practices. A report was
prepared by the consultants, the SGV Group, in October 1984 titled "Study on
Government Accounting and Auditing Modernization in Indonesia: Major
Findings on the Existing Budgeting, Accounting and Reporting System."
This study developed a detailed program of proposed measures to modernize
Government accounting. The most important changes called for in the report
were:
*   Double entry accounting in order to improve accuracy and completeness of
Government accounts;
*   Consolidation of central accounting to improve timeliness, accuracy,
consistency, and completeness of reports on overall Government revenues
and expenditures. The responsibility to maintain a Government wide
accounting and reporting system was to be given to a State Financial
Accounting Center of the Ministry of Finance;
*   Improved agency accounting to provide better support to agency programs
and project managers. This meant that the responsibility for maintaining
basic agency accounts was to be decentralized to the lowest level, namely,
programs via spending units and projects. Expenditures were to be
classified in agency accounts by program/project and category of
expenditure;
*   Introduction  of balance  sheet accounting  to  support enhanced
accountability for State investments through the notion of Government
equity by distinguishing capital items from Government revenues and
expenditures and by reporting them as assets and liabilities; and
*   Introduction of a Uniform Chart of Accounts to ensure consistency of
recording and reporting.
This project was followed up in the Second Polytechnic Project (Loan
2290-IND), in which the proposals were further developed and tested in
1987-1988 in three provinces and covered expenditures and revenues effected
through the relevant Central State Treasury offices and selected spending units
of three agencies and the Special Fund (Bagian Anggaran 16). The program
that was developed and tested was on a fully manual basis.
The First Accountancy Development Project (Loan 2940-IND) was proposed in
April 1988 and included a component to fully implement the measures
developed and partially tested under the Second Polytechnic Project. This
component involved four main accounting subsystems:
- 19 -



*   The Central Accounting System (CAS) to enable the preparation of reports
of budget realization and statements of assets, liabilities, and government
equity in an accurate and timely manner and without dependence on the
prior completion of reports by the agencies.
*   The Central State Treasury Accounting System to provide MOF with
centralized accounting for all of the Govemment's cash resources.
*   The Agency Accounting System (AAS) to provide agency management
with better information to monitor and control budget implementation at
the program and project level.
*   The Special Fund System (Bagian Anggaran 16) to provide accounting for
the special fund managed by the Minister of Finance through the
Directorate of Budget Administration. This fund includes budget
allocations for pension payments, subsidies to local governments,
investments in State enterprises, and receipts and payments of foreign
loans.
This project was designed to result in a new Government accounting
framework and systems with 100 percent manual operations, although the
feasibility and desirability of computerization was to have been evaluated
during the life of the project.
The project was amended in 1989 when it was realized that computerization
was necessary because of the need for extensive reconciliation of data from
different sources, the volume and complexity of transactions, and the
duplication of processing activities between CAS and AAS.
The computerization was undertaken in stages commencing in financial year
1990-1991 and was due to be completed in June 1994. In late 1993, it was
realized that the technology used in the development of the Govermnent
Accounting System   would restrict its long-term  viability and future
procurement activities. GAS I was developed and implemented using
DEC-VAX computers that used proprietary platform and operating systems.
The Second Accountancy Development Project was proposed and negotiated in
late 1993 and early 1994, culminating in a loan agreement in October 1994.
The project had a narrow focus on the GAS component. Its aim was to provide
funding to transfer the hardware and application software onto an open system
platform and relational database management system using fourth-generation
language to ensure its future operational and maintenance viability. The basic
accounting arrangements and business processes, for example, the roles,
functions, and relationships of various parties within the recording, processing,
and reporting processes were accepted as given. Thus, project management and
Bank supervision activities under GAS II focused on meeting the deadlines of
various subcomponents culminating in the delivery of the software and
software installation in BAKUN's regional offices. Consideration of the
original objective, namely, the improvement of timeliness, accuracy,
consistency, and completeness of reports to Parliament, Government, and
agencies, is not in evidence. The possible or potential impact of changes in the
political environment and Government structure was not discussed in either the
staff appraisal report or the midterm review in November 1997.
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex la. Outcome/lmpact Indicators
A. Major Technical Assistance Contracts
Al. GAS R.2.0 Development and          549 staff months         524 staff months
Implementation and Acctg. System
Information Management
A2. GAS R. 1.0 Management and          89 staff months          112 staff months
Maintenance
A3. Capital Markets Regulation and     387 staff months         371 staff months
Development
A4. Accounting/Auditing Standards      797 man months           598 man months
Development and Accounting
Profession Development
B. Overseas Degree Program
B1.Computer/information Sciences
-BAKUN                                 4 Students               2 Students
-BAPEPAM                               1 Student                0
B2.Business Administration
-BAKUN                                 0                        1 Student
-BAPEPAM                               7 Students               17 Students
B3.Accounting
-BAKUN                                 0                        1 Student
-BAPEPAM                               12 Students              2 Students
B4. Law
-BAKUN                                 0                        0
-BAPEPAM                               4 Students               13 Students
B5. Statistics
-BAKUN                                 0                        0
-BAPEPAM                               1 Student                0
Annex lb. Output Indicators
Detailed approach and work plan for           Adopted in January 1997 and the first
professional accountant qualifying            examination took place in October 1997
examinations adopted by 30 June 1996
GAS R.2.0 requirements documents              Completed on 30 June 1997
-21-



completed by 31 July 1996
At least 15 accounting and 15 auditing      4 standards adopted on 6 October 1997
standards officially adopted by 31 May 1997
At least 18 (18-29)overseas degree program  8 candidates enrolled in September 1996
candidates enrolled by 30 September 1997    9 candidates enrolled in September 1997
At least 30 new rules and 10 disclosure     Completed on 31 October 1997
guidelines for regulation of capital markets
adopted by 31 October 1997
Pilot data communication system             Completed on 30 September 1998
implemented by 30 November 1997
Acceptance test of GAS R.2.0 successfully   Completed on 31 August 1998
completed by 30 November 1997
40 accounting and 15 auditing standards     A total of 25 accounting and 17 auditing
officially adopted by 31 July 1999          standards were adopted by project closure
-22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a Pro-ect Cost by Component (in US$ million eouivalent)
Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Proect costs by Component         Estimte0         Estimate        ApDpraisal
(UiSS mitlion)    (S Minlion
BAKUJN                                   15.30         13.50              88.28
BAPEKSTA                                  0.73          0.19              26.49
DJLK                                      5.31          1.37              25.79
BAPEPAM                                  10.62          4.70              44.30
EKKU                                      0.24          0.01               0.00
PSSU                                      1.75          3.64             207.47
OTHERS                                    0.00          0.58               0.00
Total Baseline Costs                     33.95         23.99              70.66
Total Project Costs                    33.95         23.99              70.66
Total Financing Required               33.95         23.99              70.66
Annex 2b. Pro iect Costs by Procurement Arran2ements (in US$ million equivalent) /a
Expenditure   Procurem0ent method                       Procurement Method actual/latest estimate
Oategories
Ap raisal Estimate________
ICB    Other    NCB   NBF   Total   ICB          OtherLb  NCB    NBF   Total
Equipment:     4.1                             4.1      1.72     0.15     0.61    0.21    2.48
Data          (4.1)                            (4.1)   (1.72)   (0.15)   (0.61)           (2.48)
Processing
Equipment
Data            1.2                             1.2     1.35     0.52     0.14            2.01
Processing     (1.2)                           (1.2)   (1.35)   (0.52)   (0.14)           (2.01)
Software
Technical
Assistance:
Foreign               16.2                     16.2             10.18     0.11    0.02   10.31
&Local               (12.8)                   (12.8)            (10.18)   (0.11)         (10.31)
Specialists
Provided by
Firms
Foreign                0.4                     0.4               0.91                     0.91
Individuals           (0.3)                   (0.3)             (0.91)                   (0.91)
Local                  0.7                     0.7               0.01                     0.01
Individuals           (0.6)                   (0.6)             (0.01)                   (0.01)
Overseas               6.0                     6.0               3.94                     3.94
Training              (6.0)                   (6.0)             (3.94)                   (3.94)
In-Country                       1.6            1.6                                0.27   0.27
Training
Miscellaneou                    3.7            3.7                                 3.85    3.85
s                                                                                       I
Total          5.3   23.3       5.3           33.9      3.07    15.71      0.86    4.35  23.99
_  (5.3)  (19.7)                (25.0)   (3.07)   (15.71)   (0.86)          (19.64
/a Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
/b Consists of direct contracting of firns/individuals.
- 23 -



Annex 2c. Pro-ect Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component       AP ralsal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of Appraisal
Bank   Govern-  Co-       Bank   Govern-  Co-        Bank    Govem-  Co-
ment    financier          ment    financier          ment    financier
BAKUN        10.9   4.40     N/A       10.68   2.81     N/A       97.98    87.81    N/A
BAPEKSTA   0.4   0.33        N/A        0.14   0.05     N/A       35.00     -       N/A
DJLK         4.9   0.41      N/A        1.24   0.13     N/A       25.31    130.00   N/A
BAPEPAM      8.6   2.02      N/A        4.50   0.20     N/A       52.33    11.76    N/A
EKKU          -     0.24     N/A         -      0.01    N/A       -        10.00    N/A
PSSU         0.2    1.55     N/A        3.07   0.56     N/A       1,535     -       N/A
MISC.         -     0.00     N/A         -      0.59    N/A       -        15.95    N/A
TOTAL        25.0   8.95               19.63   4.35
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performarnce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
January 1994                 2   1 Financial Sec. Specialist
1 Auditing/Accting Advisor
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 1994                   2   1 Financial Sec. Specialist
I Auditing/Accting Advisor
Supervision
November 2000                 1   Financial Mgmt Officer              S              S
February 2000                 4   1 Princ. Fin. Economist             S              S
1 Financial Mgmt. Specialist
I Systems Advisor
I Inst. Dev. Spec.
August 1999                   1   1 Systems Advisor                   S              S
May 1999                      2   1 Princ. Economist                  S              S
I Systems Advisor
April 1998                    4   1 Sr. Financial Specialist           S             S
1 Database Coordinator
2 Consultants
November 1996                 4   1 Technology Specialist              S             S
2 Financial Specialists
I Auditing/Accounting Advisor
October 1995                  4   1 Financial/Accouting Advisor       S              S
1 Information Tech. Specialist
1 Operations Officer
I Financial Sector Specialist
ICR
January 2001                 2    Financial Mgmt.Specialist
Consultant
Notes: 1. Performance Ratings for "Identification" and "Appraisal" stages are not available.
2. November 2000 mission, Implementation Progress was rated "U" for the GAS II Component.
(b) Staff'
Stage of Project Cycle  !                 Actual/Latest Estimate
|___ __ _   No. Staff weeks         US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                17.1                         77.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                     22.6                        122.4
Supervision                               77.6                        375.7
ICR                                   14.0 (est)                       45.7
Total                                    131.3                        621.7
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
E Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                       OH  OSU*M  O N  O NA
E Physical                              O H  OSUOM  O N  *NA
O Financial                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development             O H  O SUO M  O N  0 NA
O Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
0 Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
, Public sector management              0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
a Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
F Lending                                             OHS OS   *U  OHU
E Supervision                                         OHS OS   *  u  O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS * U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
? Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  U  O HU
F  Government implementation performance              O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  O  U  O HU
N Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
Note: Bank overall performance is rated satisfactory for Component 2: Enhancing the
Accounting and Auditing Standard-Setting and Enforcement.
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 7a
1. Implementation Completion Report:
Indonesia Accountancy Development Project
(LOAN 2940-IND)                            4 January 1996
2. Minutes of FEPS Review Meeting            23 December 1993
3. Minutes of the Yellow Cover Review Meeting    25 April 1994
4. Pre-Negotiation Package                           5 July 1994
5. Aide Memoires:
* 16-19 October 1995
* 21-29 February 1999
* 30 April- 4 May 1999
* 1-16 February 2000
* 30 October-2 November 2000
* 22 January-l February 2001
6. Mid-term Review Report                            23-28 March 1998
7. Draft Strategic Plan for the Technical Development of Ministry of Finance (MOF)
8. Draft Government Regulation on Financial Information
-29 -



Annex 7b
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTING SYSTEM
COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT ICR
No.           ISSUES IN ICR             COMMENTS FROM BAKUN COMPONENT
1.    1. Proiect Data                  No comment.
2.     2. Principal Performance Ratiny s   Please refer to the comments in items 4.7 and 6 of this Comments on the Draft ICR.
Outcome: Unsatisfactory
Sustainabi]ity: Unlikely
3   3. Assessment of Development       Firstly, we do not agree with some of the weaknesses identified with GAS I for reasons
Obiective and Desien. and of      explained in the following paragraphs. Secondly, on the problems that did exist (lack of
Oualite at Entry (P.3)            control over account coding and transmittal of data) , we do not agree that these problems
A number of design and            were weaknesses in GAS I design, and subsequently in GAS 11. Instead they should be
implementation weaknesses in the  viewed as organizational constraints which impact on the design of GAS I and GAS II.
design of Government theountmg    However, we agree that this is a matter which has to be addressed and resolved by the
System I (GAS I) under the First  goenntithim daefur.
Accountancy Development Project    goverment in the immediate future.
were carried on in a detrimental
manner to the design of the Second    System Complexity:
3.1   Accountancy Development Project.   * Because of the way the Ministry of Finance is organized and the manner in which
The unresolved GAS I problems can  functions are delegated, BAKUN (I) has very little influence over account coding, (2) has
be summarized as follows:        no control over the accuracy of the actual coding of accounts in the accounting source
* System complexity-GAS I was    documents, and (3) has no control over the bank account statements/records.
designed as a large complex system.   ,
As such, tight controls should have  ... timely transmission of datafrom thousands of local agencies to the Central Accountin
been developed, but were not over   Svstem". This statement is not accurate because the basic data being processed by BAKUN
such activities as account coding,    comes from the Budget Administration Offices(KTUA) in the regions and the Directorate
timely transmission of data from  General of the Budget Head Office. Data from the agency accounting units (less than 1000
thousands of local agencies to the    present because only 4 departments require regional accounting units in provinces outside
Central Accounting System, and   Jakarta, compared with about 23 departments before the reorganization - other departments
reconciliation of detailed accounting  have offices only in Jakarta) are needed only (1) if there are corrections to be made in data
records with cash balances per bank  generated by BAKUN at the KARs, and (2) to post the fixed asset data from the agencies to
records.                        the Central Accounting System. The delay in transmission of data from the Budget Treasury
Administration Offices (KTUA) to the Regional Accounting Offices (KARs) is due to
existing organizational arrangements where transactions of the State Treasury Offices must
be verified by the KTUA before documents are forwarded to the agencies and BAKUN. Thi
set-up cannot be changed now because the procedures performed by KTUA still support th
existing single entry system in the agencies. Changes in this arrangement can be made only
after the single entry system is replaced by GAS II.
* GAS I did not address the cash reconciliation aspect because at the time it (GAS I) was
being implemented, not all agencies and provinces were covered. Since many cash
transactions were not yet being processed, cash reconciliation was not possible and would
have been a futile exercise.
3.2   * Accounting basis - GAS I required  . The budget of the Central Government is formulated based on the cash principle. Both
the use of double entry bookkeeping  GAS I and GAS II accounts for budgetary transactions based on the cash principle. Thus the
and balance sheet accounting. The    budget realization reports give a comparison between the budget and actual results using
Parliament and Goveoment use tnihe  cash basis. The capture of actual fixed asset data in GAS II (this feature was not yet presen
single entry/cash basis of accounting  in GAS I) aims to supply the system with fixed asset data needed for the balance sheet.(Th
for budgets and appropriations.  decision to include fixed assets in the balance sheet was a govemment decision.) This adde
...The design of GAS I did not reflect feature does not in any way impact on the budget accountability reports.
a fundamental management
principle-namely that accounting and * The decision to develop an accounting system using double entry bookkeeping was made
reporting systems are tools for  by the government at the urging of the World Bank. This was a requirement in the Terms ol
control and accountability by    Reference for the initial study. During the early stages of GAS development, the
management (i.e., Parliament and the government was half-hearted in supporting this effort, but through the years the Governme:
- 30 -



Government in this instance) in its   had come to accept it as the better alternative to single entry. The decision to adopt double
planning and control operations. It is entry is more urgent now with pressure from the IMF and the WB for the government to
not sensible to account on a different adopt the new GFS (which calls for the use of double entry) . We believe questioning the
basis since the recipients of the  use of the double entry system for GAS I and GAS II is not appropriate at this time because
reports do not have comparable   it will only generate confusion and doubt in the minds of people about what really is the
information to judge performance or  best practice. Moreover, it will simply throw back the criticism on the WB, since it was the
accountability.                  original sponsor of this move.
"It is not sensible to account on a different basis since the recipients of the reports do not
have comparable information to judge performance or accountability. " This argument is ni
accurate because, if a government is using single entry at a given time, it does not follow
that it cannot decide to shift to double entry in the future. At any given time, the govemmer
or any institution for that matter, can only have one official accounting system. Today it is
the single entry system. Hopefully, in year 2002 it will be the double entry system.
We therefore suggest that this item be deleted from the draft ICR.
3.3   * Level of detailed information- GAS When GAS I was developed, the budget system did not yet have a standard chart of accoun
I required that expenditures be  for revenue and expenditure. The accounts and codes used in accounting documents ar
distinguished between capital and    reports generated by the state treasury in the head office were different from those used b
current items at the program/project  treasury offices in the regions and from codes used in budget documents. But, without
level whereas the budget         standard chart of accounts there can be no accounting system. GAS I proposed a chart
appropriations to agencies did not    accounts which distinguished between capital outlay and current operating expenditures. Tt
require that detailed distinctions be   proposed chart of account was adopted to a large extent and has and standard accounts hax
made.                            been used for budget, treasury, and accounting purposes since 1994. Before that, GAS I ha
to convert the budget codes into the proposed accounting codes. Since this problem wE
corrected before GAS II development started,we suggest that this item be deleted from th
ICR.
3.4   * Delay in implementation of GAS I - The delay in the implementation of the 2nd and 3rd Priority Accounting Modules of GAS
GAS I was to have been implemented was brought about by the modifications  in the documentation of budget and treasui
by 30 June 1994. However, the    transactions as a result of the decision to adopt the new chart of accounts (item 3.3). Th
implementation was delayed.      move necessitated changes in many programs which had already been completed.
The design and preparation of GAS II However, apart from delays caused by the late start-up, it should be recalled that, from th
took place before GAS I had been    very start, the implementation of GAS I was planned to be a phased implementation (fi
Implemented and, as a result , the    reasons that are too many to explain in this paper), where each year 5 to 6 new Departmen
Second Accountancy Development   and 4 to 5 new provinces were to be added to area covered by the implementation. (Trainin
Project became effective in      of agency accounting and computer operations personnel in each province is necessary befoi
December 1994, prior to the closure  implementation could start.) As of FY 1994/1995 only 12 of 27 provinces and 18 of 3
of the First Accountancy         agencies have been covered by the implementation.
Development Project in 1995. None
of the above problems with GAS I    The phased implementation plan for GAS I was approved by the WB and was adhered X
were highlighted in the          from the time GAS I was implemented as a partially computerized. Before the decision t
Implementation Completion Report.  develop GAS II, it was planned that by year 1997/98 all agencies and provinces would hax
(ICR) or the First Accountancy   been fully covered by GAS I implementation. When GAS II development started, the W
Development Project              Supervision Mission urged BAKUN to not to expand the implementation of GAS I in tt
remaining agencies and provinces, but continue GAS I implementation in the agencies an
regions already been covered as of FY1995-96. However, by FY 1997-98, the govermne
resumed training and implementation in the remaining agencies and provinces (usir
govemment Rupiah funds) to hasten the leaming process, particularly on basic accountinl
and so that the momentum and enthusiasm of agencies will not be lost.
GAS I was routinely producing the monthly, quarterly and annual financial reports for tl
agencies (for all levels), the central government and the Central State Treasury when i
implementation was discontinued in 1998 and GAS II was phased in. We wish to emphasi,
that during the time GAS I was being implemented (after it was completed and debugged i
1994-1995 and 1995/96), with the exception of intermittent problems brought about by tlb
two issues on account coding and data transmission,  there were no significai
implementation problems that should have been considered serious concemns during tf
development of GAS II.
- 31 -



3.5  It appears that the above         Out of the many issues raised in this section 3 of the Draft ICR, the only ones that trul
inadequacies in the design and   had a continuing impact on GAS II are: (1) BAKUN has very little control over the accoui
implementation of GAS I were not   coding, (2) BAKUN has no control over the quality of data in the accounting sour(
taken into consideration in the design documents, and (2) delay in the transmission of data from KTUA to the KARs.
of GAS II, and thus inadequacies
were carried over to GAS II. During  In view of these observations, we feel there is a need to revise this section of the report so
the design and preparation of GAS II, that it will reflect the real situation.
no one questioned:
* The appropriateness of the system
complexities, accounting basis or
level of detail in GAS I; or
* The reasons for or implications of
the delay in implementation of GAS I
Rather than reviewing the adequacy
of the underlying framework of GAS
I, it was accepted as the starting point
for GAS II, even though it had nor yet
been implemented. Given the lack of
public sector accounting and IT
expertise in Indonesia at the time
GAS II was designed. The Bank
should have recognized the problems
inherent in GAS I and should have
advised     the      Government
appropriately during the design of
GAS 11.
4   4. Achievement of Obiective and
outputs (P.4)                    The system has not worked as planned 18 months after the consultants formally completed
the contract for the following reasons:
4.1 Para. 2 : The fact that the system 1 Modifications had to be made in the programs because:
has not worked as planned 18 months lBudget formulation and approval was decentralized, and budget data had to be obtained
after the consultants formally   from and processed in the provinces. Before, these activities were centralize, and budget
are incomplete, some reports are still data was obtained by BAKUN from only one source, the DGB Head Office.
awaiting agency confirmation and/or  * The budget format was changed from the balanced budget to the deficit budget format.
clarification and, more importantly,  This affected the chart of accounts, posting rules, reports and validation rules.
the old manual system (i.e., the  * Interface programs to transfer data from the DGB (KTUA) to BAKUN had to be modified
system before GAS I) is still in use   because there was no consistency in the format/data structure of data coming from the more
12 years after the initiation of the    than 30 KTUJA.
First Accountancy Development    2. The regional and fiscal autonomy laws came into effect with the following impact:
Project indicate serious deficiencies  * There was a series of reorganization resulting in the dissolution of many departments.
in the planning and execution of the  Master data as well as data processing problems resulted because there was confusion as to
First and Second Accountancy     which remaining/new agencies are responsible and should be charged for expenditures of
Projects. The reasons for this state of projects / offices which previously belonged to the dissolved agencies.
affairs appear to be many:       * Budget allocation documents oftentimes did not contain all the relevant codes (particularl,
for offices/projects which used to be under the dissolved agencies). Thus, both the budget
and cash disbursement data received by GAS 11 either did not contain all the necessary code
or were assigned the wrong codes.
* It was not clear which new agencies/departments should be credited for revenue which
used to be credited to dissolved agencies.
* Account codes which have already been removed from the chart of accounts were still
being used.
* Since GAS II validates the data received from the DGB against the master data,
erroneously coded transaction received from the DGB were automatically rejected by the
system.
3. There were bugs in the system which had to be corrected. (This is a contributing factor n.
the only cause of the delay.)
- 32 -



With regard to the use of the old system, it has already been explained earlier that from the
start of GAS I implementation, the plan had been to undertake a phased implementation.
The original target of FY 1997/1998 was set back when the decision to develop GAS II was
made. GAS II development used up another 3 years. We should therefore not gauge the
performance of GAS II against the 12 years which has transpired but in terms of the revised
implementation plan, which is 1997/1998 plus 3 years.
4.1  * The system requires data from the  If the statement (in Italic) means that data is received from the lowest level agency spendinl
lowest levels of government (i.e.  units for processing and posting to the central government accounts , this is not accurate as
program/project) to flow upward  mentioned in section 3.3. However, if it means that data is captured by the system to provid
several levels to the central   details for reporting to the lowest level agency spending units, and aggregated upwards foi
government accounts. Without    higher level reporting, then your statement is correct.
stringent control of coding and clear
assignment of responsibility for this  Why was the system designed to capture data from the lowest level agency spending unit?
control, data becomes unreliable  The manually designed GAS called for the maintenance of agency general ledgers by the
when there are changes to       agencies themselves, while BAKUJN will maintain the general ledger for the central
program/project codes either because government accounts. BAKUN was to provide both systems List of Transactions and the
of changes in the government    journal voucher to minimize discrepancies in the posted data.
structure (i.e. merging or splitting of
departments, provinces) or changes   When the decision to computerize the system was made, a Senior Adviser recommended,
in the uniform chart of accounts  and BAKUN, the World Bank and SGV Consultants agreed that accounting data processing
structure to comply with GFS    from data entry to the maintenance of the general ledger be centralized in BAKUN (KAR).
requirements.                   BAKUN shall provide the agencies with the GL details needed for verifying posted data an(
for preparing their financial reports. In view of this, it was necessary for the system capture
all details needed for reporting on the budget realization of the lowest level spending units
of agencies, namely offices and projects. This decision was made for the following reasons:
1. Centralization of the GL maintenance activities at BAKUN will reduce the cost of
systems development maintenance and implementation because only one system had to be
developed. This would not have been the case if the agencies had to have their own
accounting system separate from the central accounting system that would be run by
BAKUN. Furthermore, control over the maintenance of the agency accounting system wouli
have been difficult if not impossible because each agency can make changes in its own
accounting system.
2. The primary source documents for the accounting system came from the DGB. By
centralizing the data processing in BAKUN the government will save a lot by performing
only one data entry operation instead of two, which would have been the case if the agencie
maintained and implemented a separate agency accounting system.
3. Agencies did not have the capability to develop, implement and maintain a full scale
computerized and decentralized agency accounting system. Very few agencies had
accountants in the agency Head Offices and definitely there were none in the regions. The
government did not have the capability and resources to simultaneously develop and
implement two separate systems.
4. Separate data processing for the agencies and the central government (Ministry of
Finance) would result in serious reconciliation difficulties. In fact it would be almost
impossible to trace the cause of any differences between data reported by agencies and data
reported BAKUN because each one can make errors in any stage in the accounting cycle.
It is worthwhile to note that contrary to the custom in other countries where discrepancies
between reports generated two separate systems are tolerated, auditors, government report
users, and decision makers in the country make a case against unreconciled figures in
reports. This explains the emphasis placed on the need to produce reconcilable accounting
reports.
4.2    The changes in the government    When the changes in the government and budget structure took place, 2 and 1/2 years
structure since 1998 and the effects I 
structure hanges 199and the workaity  design, programming and testing work had been completed. At the time the specificatiox
of these changes on the workability  and designs were developed no one could have known that changes were going to take plac
of the system were not recognized or much more anticipate where it was going. It would have been too much for anyone to expe
taken into account during the   the Consultant to make changes at that time, especially since in  1998 no one knew tI
relevant developmentiphase. The  direction the government was going . Most of the changes only occurred when fie]
the implementation of the fill GFS   implementation was already taking place.
- 33 -



classification framework will ensure
an unstable environment in which the
system is likely to be unreliable or
perhaps even unworkable for the next
3 to 5 years.
4.3   * Data is currently received by  Please refer to the comments on item 3.1 on timely transmission of data (page 3).
BAKUN's regional offices (KARs)
from the relevant regional offices of
budget administration (KTUAs)
about one and a half months after
payments are made by the regional
offices of the Central State Treasury
(KPKNs). An additional minimum of
one month is required for processing
by the KARs if there are no major
errors or unusual transactions. Thus
timely reporting is almost impossible
right from the start of the process.
4.4   * The design of the system requires   The system can produce the central accounting reports for reporting to Parliament on the
the timely cooperation of all units of budget realization even if no feedback is received from the agencies. While it is true that
all agencies to verify data and to  inaccuracies can occur because the KARs may can make errors in data entry or in editing
provide prompt feedback to KARs for transactions data, it would be no different if the system were developed and implemented a!
data correction purposes. Unless this two separate systems, with the central accounting system (CAS) working independently of
cooperatson ts forthcomiag, the  the agency accounting system (AAS). In the latter case, no one will be verifying the output
outputs of the system are unrehable  of either the CAS or the AAS. Under GAS I and GAS II, at least there is still a chance that
or wcomplete; mn some cases the  the agency will discover and correct the mistakes made by the KARs.
whole system may not work if data
from the lowest level is wrongly  On the question of wrong coding, since it is the State Treasury Offices that code the
coded. This cooperation has been  documents used by BAKUN and by the agency, the agency accounting units (if they are to
patchy resulting in incomplete and    operate independently) will have the same problems that the KARs have in the processing c
untimely reporting. It is understood  these transactions.
that BAKUN has been working on    The cooperation of all agency accounting to verify data and to provide feedback to KARs u
improving this cooperation and some                .                        d  
improvement has been achieved.   now supported by the Minister of Finance Decree number 295/KMK012/2001.
* The consultants did not deliver  Age
standard operating procedures or
reconciliation programs for the
reporting unit in BAKUN head office
because of a difference of opinion as
to whether this was part of the
contract, Thus the reconciliation and
verification of PAN reports (PAN
report is a budget realization report
to Parliament, an exposure account of
the result of funds for government
operations) with other independently
prepared reports, such as those
produced by the Directorate General,
Budget or by agencies, have been
manually undertaken by BAKUN
head office staff. This is time
consuming and has generated a lack
of confidence in the accuracy of GAS
II reports.
4.6   * To date there are still program  The Head of BAKUN has already written a letter to the Head of DG Budget to allocate fun(
errors which need fixing. This may   for agencies for computer hardware procurements. However, the financial difficulties face
be a bigger challenge when the
system is rolled out to all agencies.   by the government at present should always be considered.
At present, only about 20% of the
- 34 -



agencies have computers to enable
usage of the system at the lower
levels.
4.7   * The Terms of Reference allowed   As mentioned earlier, the delay in the start-up of GAS II live implementation for FY
the consultants to formally conclude  (1999-2000) are caused primarily by factors beyond the control of BAKUN and the
the end of March 1999. This was  Consultant. The terms of the contract cannot justify keeping the Consultant beyond March
well before the start of live    1
implementation in August 1999. The Please refer to comments in item 5.2 page 9 of this paper.
procedures for the acceptance testing
were inadequate in detecting any
programming/ systems errors. Scarce
IT skills and resources in BAKUN
have made implementation progress
and correction of bugs identified
during live production very slow.
4.8   Outputs by Component
-Comnonent (P.6. item 4.2)      Before you rate the project as unsatisfactory, we would like you to take these things ini
... The delivery of a working   consideration:
production system seems to have  When the GAS study started in the 1980s,
been lost in the process. Therefore,   * There was no accounting system at the central accounting office (Directorate for State
the projects outcome is considered   Financial Accounting or DSFA, now BAKUN). Annual budget realization reports to
unsatisfactory as it failed to achieve  Parliament were prepared by the DSFA by compiling data from the annual budget
the development objective of    realization reports submitted by the agencies and the Directorate General of the Budget
modernizing the Government      (DGB
Accounting System.              * Agency accounting (single entry) was centralized at the department/agency head office.
Agency accounting records were maintained by agencies following reporting guidelines
issued from year to year by the DSFA. The agencies only produced annual budget realizato
reports for the Ministry of Finance. Since no accounting activities were done in the regions,
no budget realization reports were generated for the spending units ( offices and projects)
aswell as for regional and echelon I level units.
* There was no formal state treasury accounting although treasury offices maintained daily
cash transaction records and prepared daily cash reports.
* No clear accounting policies and standards governed the record keeping activities
performed by the agencies and DGB..
* Very few government agencies had personnel with accounting training/education.
* There was no standard chart of accounts for revenue and expenditure.
At the present time:
* A formal, double entry accounting system encompassing central accounting, agency
accounting, and treasury accounting has been developed, computerized and implemented in
all central government agencies in all provinces. The Government has targeted Year 2002
for converting from the old single entry system to GAS II.
* The agency accounting system is decentralized and is now being implemented in the
regions (by the agency regional offices,not spending units) . GAS I and subsequently GAS I
are capable of generating financial reports for the lowest level spending units upwards to
the department level.
* Thousands of government personnel all over the country have been trained both on the
theory and on the implementation of the govemment accounting system.
* The government has adopted a standard chart of accounts for budgeting, treasury and
accounting.
* Improvements have been made in the budget and treasury procedures to facilitate better
accountability.
* The govemment has developed the exposure draft of the government accounting standard!
Public discussions on the draft are on-going.
In any system that is tailor-made, bugs can be expected to occur even after a thorough
- 35 -



systems test and trial implementation has been done, because it is not always possible to
replicate field conditions for a complete accounting cycle - particularly those involving
reports comparing data for two years or more. This is especially the case in complex
systems like GAS I & 11. Aside from bugs, implementation problems also arise because
govemment staff implementing the system still have to learn and adjust to the new system.
Unlike developed countries which have an abundant supply of well trained and skilled
accountants and computer personnel, govenmnent staff in this country, especially in the
regions are not as skilled.
GAS 11 implementation started at a time when fundamental changes were taking place in
the country and in the govermnent. The government revised the budget format by adopting
deficit budget framework (vs. balanced budget). The regional and fiscal autonomy laws
came into effect resulting in a series of reorganization, and changes in budget structure and
financial operations. These developments have created a lot of confusion in the budget
preparation process and in budget execution, causing many documentation problems
(particularly coding of accounts), all of which impact on the timeliness of implementation
and the quality of the output of GAS 11.
The task which BAKUN had to accomplish to date was enormous. It was not just a case of
developing, and implementing a govemment accounting system. It involved institution anc
capability building in an environment which for a long time was "unsympathetic" towards
the idea of modemizing the accounting system.
The development and implementation of the GAS was a pioneer undertaking which, as I.
as we know has never
been done before in other countries on a similar scale. Thus there were no experiences to
draw from. It is true that there are other countries with government accounting systems
which could serve as models for developing new systems. In fact a number of Senior
Advisors to this project had extensive govemment accounting experiences from developed
and developing countries. But which country has similar budgeting and treasury systems,
and organizational arrangements as Indonesia? Which ones developed and implemented tlle
accounting systems from scratch, trained all accounting staff on the basics of accounting. an
trained computer staff with minimal experience on how to maintain computerized
accounting systems? In the final analysis, a country has to develop a system which would
satisfy its requirements under existing environmental constraints.
We believe that the two projects (First and Second Accountancy Development Projects)
should not be evaluated in terms of one absolute criteria, which is that GAS 11 should be
running smoothly, and complete and accurate reports are generated as of a specific target
date. Instead, the accomplishment of these two projects should be evaluated in its totality.
We believe the aforementioned accomplishments of the two projects should be considered
when making an overall assessment of the project.
In view of this, we disagree to the "Unsatisfactory" rating given for "Outcome". A
unsatisfactory outcome can be interpreted as the failure of GAS 11, and this can be used 1
other sectors with ulterior motives as a basis for forcing the govemment to completely stc
implementing the system.
5   Maior Factors Affectine
Imulementation and Outcome       The primary cause of delays in the implementation of GAS 1I were developments outside tl
5.1  P.9. Item 5.2 :It is reasonable,  control, not only of BAKUN, but of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) as well. The adoption
therefore, to assume that BAKUN  the GFS framework in budget preparation was required by the IMF, the adoption of tl
would be the source of instruction    regional and fiscal autonomy laws was passed by Parliament in 1998, and the series i
advice/guidance on all accounting    reorganizations was by Presidential Decree. These events occurred after GAS 11 had be(
matters, and a key player in     developed, tested, and trial implemented.   Neither BAKUN nor the MOF could hai
influencing other offices within MOF influenced these decisions or anticipated the impact of these events on GAS 11.
and other agencies to adopt measures
that were necessary to ensure the  It is true that, as the agency responsible for the accounting function, BAKUN should be ab
operational capability of its system.  to lay down the rules and guidelines to be followed/observed by government agencies (DG
The reality was otherwise in that    included) to insure that the accounting function is properly carried out. But it should t
BAKUTN appears to have reacted to   noted that, unlike in other countries where this role has already been recognized an
events rather attempting to influence
- 36 -



accepted, in this country this is a very new development. Acceptance takes time. And sinc
them; BAKUN seems to have been a BAKUN does not have jurisdiction over budget and treasury operations, it does not have tF
marginal participant in the decision  authority to compel DGB to take stringent measures to ensure that data flowing from DG
making process.                to BAKUN satisfy GAS II requirements, both in terms of quality and accuracy. There a]
organizational constraints which limit BAKUNs actual authority.
5.2  P.9, Item 5.3: Management       It is not true that the Consultant just claimed full performance and disappeared 6 montl
effectiveness by BAKUN was also   before live production. They were involved in live production, although we referred to th
lacking in that the contract was such  as trial implementation because it only covered 3 months live transactions covering tl
that the consultants were able to  period April to June 1998 (for Fiscal Year 1998-1999), not one year's transactions. The
claim full performance and disappear monitored the implementation for 6 months from the start of GAS II trial implementatioi
from the project 6 months before  During this period they debugged the system and made modifications as required t
"live production" of the system. To   BAKUN. In addition, there was a further warranty of 6 months were the Consultai
have a contract that enables the  continued debugging the system. It was the live production for the following fiscal year
consultants to finish before "live"    FY1999-2000) that suffered a delay in the start up because of the problems/developmen
implementation indicates insufficient mentioned in the preceding sections.
attention givento contractual   Note: The contract with PT Ernst & Young was signed on December 15, 1995. Tri.
negoqeaton and  tmadequate    implementation in all KARs using live data for April to June 1998 started G
subsequent contract managementc    October-November 1998. PTE&Ywas releasedfrom the contract in November 1999.
The ICR of the First Accountancy
Development Project suggested that a
pilot implementation by all units and
agencies in one province should be
undertaken to ensure that the reports
emerging from the new system could
be used as the basis for
comprehensive evaluation prior to a
full scale implementation.
6.   Sustainability              '...apparent lack of commitment/appreciation by the Government and high level
6.   Sustainability                  bureaucrats to the importance of this task.' The situation has changed significantly under
It is unlikely the govenmment  the leadership of Dr.Mulia Nasution. On April 19, 2001, the Minister of Finance issued a
Accounting System II (GAS II) will  Decree No. 196/KMK.01/2001 creating the Committee for the Modemization of Financial
be sustainable in the future given the Management (Komite Penyempurnaan Manajemen Keuangan). This Committee is headed b
current uncertainty regarding the    the Secretary General and the Head of BAKUN was appointed Vice Chairman. The tasks oi
structure of Govemment following   this committee include:
decentralization, the lack of control  a. Formulate the strategy for the improvement/modernization of financial management,
over coding of accounts to ensure    b. Formulate the policies for drafting the Govemment Regulations on the implementation o1
compliance, and the apparent lack of State Finance laws,
commitment/appreciation by the  c. Formulate the policies for the improvement/modernization of the govemment budgeting
Govemment and high level        system leading towards a unified budget,
bureaucrats to the importance of this d. Formulate the policies for the improvement/modernization of the state treasury system,
task.                           e. Formulate the policies for the improvement/modemization of the govemment accounting
standards and system,
f. Formulate the policies for the standardization of annual agency reports,
g. Formulate the policies for improving/modernizing auditing within the government
agencies,
h. Formulate the policies for restructuring the (MOF) organization in line with the
modemization of financial management.
i. Consult with the Minister of Finance on the outcome of the tasks mentioned in items a to
h.
The main factors that can cause uncertainty in the sustainability of GAS II are the plans to
adopt the unified budget structure (together with the implementation of the GFS), and any
major reorganization in the MOF which may come about as a result of the recommendation!
of the aforementioned Committee.
We expect that this Committee will, among others, address the problems of coding and dat
transmission which were raised repeatedly in this draft ICR.
*oIt is understood that BAPEKSTA   The real role to be played by BINTEK (BAPEKSTA) v^s-a-vis the accounting system is not
has become the Office of Infoms  yet clear at this point. It is premature to judge the extent that this development will impact
Technology and Financial Systems
- 37 -



(Badan Informasi dan Teknologi  on GAS 11.
Keuangan). It is further understood
that this office will have the
responsibility for developing a
number of financial systems
including a "General Financial
Information System." If this
eventuates, the impact on GAS II will
be very significant, as it may not be
an appropriate mechanism for
collecting data from lower level
program/projects with consequential
changes to the system's data
structure and operational rules.
7   7. Bank and Borrower            We assume that "conceptual proposal" refers to the items enumerated in "Section 10.
Performance (Page 13, item 7.4)   Additional Information" page 15 of the Draft ICR. All the first four proposals quoted from
... Like the Bank staff, the  the SGV report were all requirements in the Terms of Reference and the main deliverables
government agreed too readily to the  of the Contract. The TOR required the consultant on develop a central accounting system at
conceptual proposals made by the    the Central Accounting Office (now BAKUN) and an agency accounting system using the
SGV consultants in 1984 on the  double entry system for manual implementation. The TOR also required that the system
modernization of Govemment      should also produce the state balance sheet. The last item, a uniform chart of accounts is of
accounting practices and systems.   course basic to any accounting system. The system delivered by SGV complied with the
terms of the first contract. At that time, there was no basis for proposing a different concel
- which would have meant justifying a change in the TOR and the contract. All the
arguments against the conceptual design which are being used in this Draft ICR are based o
hindsizht.
We object to the tenor of this statement which implies that the government, not to mention
the Bank, accepted blindly the Consultant's recommendation. We wish to emphasize that
during the development stages, in addition to Government official, there were Senior
Advisors and WB experts reviewing the Consultant's output.
While we do not agree with the conclusions of the Draft ICR that the fault lies in the origin:
conceptual framework, we want to stress that if there were weaknesses in the system, this ii
the joint responsibility of all parties involved in the development, supervision and review ol
the system that was designed.
We therefore recommend that this statement be deleted from this section of the Draft ICR. .
When the decision was made to   The variables that influenced the decisions and actions taken by the government, the Bank
computerize a system designed for   and the Consultant at the time the computerization was started were many.
manual operations, a further    Although the manual government accounting system had not yet been implemented, the
opportunity existed to raise questions system was simulated in 3 regions and in 4 agencies. The simulation showed that the systen
about the appropriateness of the  was able to produce the expected output. At the same time, the simulation also revealed
systems original scope and structure. problem in connection with the lack of standardized inputs to the system.
None of this was done by the
government.                     Years of hard work had been put in developing and simulating the accounting and financial
reporting system designed for manual operation. The cost and further delay that will result
from revising the conceptual design and detailed design of the system at that point would
have been difficult to justify. Furthermore, revising the design of the new manual accountin
system prior to the development of a fully computerized system would have been highly
risky because the resulting system would have been one that was not simulated.
At the time GAS I was being developed, the Project was under pressure, both from the
Government and the Bank to produce results, notwithstanding the fact that the simulation
showed that there were problems in budget and treasury operations which impact on the
system. The phased computerization of the system was deemed the best approach at that
time to move forward while at the same time finding solutions to existing problems. It was
decided that systems development would be done in 3 stages.
- 38 -



* The 1st priority module (FPAM) covered the computerization activities up to joumal
voucher generation at the KARs for cash transactions in the regions (through the KPKNs),
and for budget allocation transactions from the DGB Head Office. The reason for the focus
on the regional transactions was the fact that treasury operations in the regions were
relatively more stable and standardized.
* The 2nd priority module (SPAM) covered activities from the maintenance of the general
ledger to financial report generation. Data to be posted in the accounts would cover only the
transactions already processed by the FPAM. When SPAM is implemented, BAKUN will
centrally maintain the general ledger for both the agencies and BAKUN. Posting and
reporting activities done manually will be stopped. Agency financial reports will be
generated from the general ledger received from BAKUN, while central accounting reports
will be generated by BAKUN from the same GL details maintained at BAKUN.
* The 3rd priority module (TPAM) covered activities up to joumal voucher preparation for
cash transactions through the DGB Head Office, and posting thereof to the GL. The reason
for giving these transactions 3rd priority was because it was expected that while the lst and
2nd priority modules are being developed, the budget and treasury issues which were raisec
during the simulation could be resolved.
What happened was, due to pressure to finish computerization and accomplish full
computerization as soon as possible 2nd and 3rd priority modules were developed
simultaneously (at the recommendation of Senior Advisers). Some of the budget and treasur
issues were resolved only during the development of the 2nd and 3rd priority
modulesAgreement on the chart of accounts was achieved only when systems development
was almost finished. And as we all know the issue on control over account coding is still an
on-going issue.
In view of the fact that GAS I was developed from a system designed for manual
implementation and as such would have serious shortcomings for a fully computerized
system, we agree that perhaps a complete reengineering/restructuring of GAS I may have
been necessary before GAS II was developed.
8   8. Lessons Learned (Page 14)    Does unsatisfactory project design refer to the accounting system design or the design of the
It is important to acknowledge that   First and Second Accountancy Development Projects? If this refers to GAS I, we reject the
non-compliance with the Bank
procedures resulted in perpetuating   statement that from the start the design was flawed from the beginning, as explained in the
an unsatisfactory project design for   previous sections.
an unacceptably long period of time.
The generally accepted alternative is We wish to inform you, that the Consultant for GAS II (P.T. Emst & Young) did not blindly
to use off-the- shelf accounting  adopt the GAS I framework. After reviewing GAS I, and before actual GAS II system desigi
packages and make appropriate   and development, they considered changing the system framework and using an accounting
modifications to suit unique user    package. They have tried modifying an accounting package which the believed could be
requirements.                   modified to suit the user requirements. However that package assumed certain business
processes and relationships which differed significantly from the actual situation. To be abl,
to use it, many changes in the budgeting and treasury procedures were needed. But,
considering that this project did not directly involve DGB, it was impossible to make
material changes outside the jurisdiction of BAKUN, within the limited time that was
available for systems development. Furthermore, instead of simplifying the system it woule
have created more complications. In the end, they dropped the idea of using the accounting
package.
Other Points to consider / Lessons Learned:
1. Before undertaking any large-scale government accounting modernization effort, there
should be a prior, or simultaneous activity to modernize the budget and treasury functions.
Much of the delay in the accounting system development and implementation activities
(both GAS I and GAS II) can be traced to either deficiencies in policies, organizational
arrangements, or budget and treasury operations.
2. If a project would require streamlining/reengineering the systems and operations of
more than one agency, all agencies whose operations need to be streamlined/reengineered
should be provided with an expenditure budget, and the activities of each agency should
- 39 -



be treated as a separate project component or sub component. For instance, for the
accounting system development effort to succeed, many changes should have been made
in the budget and treasury procedures. During GAS I and GAS II systems development,
BAKUN proposed many recommendations covering DGB operations but only a few of
these proposals were implemented. It would have been different if the budget and treasury
system improvement activity was a sub-component of the project.
3. Governments and the Bank should recognize that in introducing massive changes in
government systems and /or operations, the extent of the change and the speed of
implementation will be affected by the availability or lack of trained and skilled
personnel, the existing organizational arrangements, and availability or lack of
government funds to finance the undertaking.
- 40 -



- 41 -



