Page  1
                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3801 IND
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
                 (Second Accountancy Development Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated October 21, 1994
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3801 IND
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated October 21, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
    (B) the Bank has received a letter dated January 20, 1994, from the
Borrower describing a comprehensive national accountancy development
strategy to be implemented during the Borrower's Fiscal Years 1994 through
2000 (hereinafter called the Strategy).
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
Page  2
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
                which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
                inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
                Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
    (a) "PSSU" means the Project Support Services Unit established within
the Borrower's Ministry of Finance as the PIU under the Loan Agreement dated
October 6, 1988 entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for Loan No.
2940-IND (Accountancy Development Project).
    (b)   "Bank Indonesia" means the Borrower's central bank.
    (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars, a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2000 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
Page  3
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
    (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
    (c) For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.
          (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.
    (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
          pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
          the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with the Strategy and an implementation action plan, satisfactory
to the Bank, and appropriate administrative and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
    (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  4
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the
Project;
    (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan; and
    (c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's
comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b) The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section, including those for the Special Account,
                for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                appropriate auditing standards by independent auditors
                acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than six months after the end of each such year,
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and
          (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
          (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
                and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
Page  5
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, a situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Strategy, or a significant
part thereof, will be carried out.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the event
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                                Termination
    Section 6.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Director General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 139
          Jakarta 10710, Indonesia
          Cable address:           Telex:
                MINISTRY FINANCE        DEPKEU-1A 44319
                Jakarta                  DJMLN-1A 45799
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
          INTBAFRAD
          Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA),
                                         82987 (FTCC),
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                         197688 (TRT)
Page  6
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                             /s/ Tjahjono
                       By
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                             /s/ Marianne Haug
                       By
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.        The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
          Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment:                                      100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures;
    (a) Data processing         3,700,000           100% of local
        hardware                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory cost)
    (b) Data processing         1,100,000           and 65% of
        software                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items pro-
                                                    cured locally
(2) Technical
    Assistance                 12,600,000           100%
(3) Overseas Training           5,300,000           100%
(4) Unallocated                 2,300,000
                               __________
          TOTAL                25,000,000
2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
Page  7
    (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for individual
consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent and for consultants' services
with firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to implement
the Strategy, inter alia, to: (a) modernize its accounting information
system; and (b) enhance the credibility of financial information in the
private and public sector through the development of accounting and auditing
standards.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Modernization of the Borrower's Accounting Information
      System
    (i)   Development of an improved computerized accounting system for the
Borrower's departments and agencies through, inter alia, provision of
computer hardware and software, training and technical assistance.
    (ii)  Identification and adoption of appropriate information technology
standards and development of data communication systems to facilitate the
design and implementation of the Borrower's accounting information system,
including feasibility studies, network design, pilot projects, computer
software, training and technical assistance.
Part B: Private and Public Sector-related Accounting and Auditing
      Standards
    Development and issuance of internationally accepted private sector
accounting and auditing standards, and establishment of enforcement
mechanisms for their utilization.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 2000                                       480,000
November 15, 2000                                  495,000
May 15, 2001                                       515,000
November 15, 2001                                  535,000
May 15, 2002                                       550,000
November 15, 2002                                  570,000
May 15, 2003                                       590,000
November 15, 2003                                  615,000
May 15, 2004                                       635,000
November 15, 2004                                  655,000
Page  8
May 15, 2005                                       680,000
November 15, 2005                                  705,000
May 15, 2006                                       730,000
November 15, 2006                                  755,000
May 15, 2007                                       785,000
November 15, 2007                                  810,000
May 15, 2008                                       840,000
November 15, 2008                                  870,000
May 15, 2009                                       900,000
November 15, 2009                                  930,000
May 15, 2010                                       965,000
November 15, 2010                                1,000,000
May 15, 2011                                     1,035,000
November 15, 2011                                1,070,000
May 15, 2012                                     1,110,000
November 15, 2012                                1,150,000
May 15, 2013                                     1,190,000
November 15, 2013                                1,230,000
May 15, 2014                                     1,275,000
November 15, 2014                                1,330,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment             Premium
                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                  0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not               0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not               0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Page  9
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
    Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in        Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a) With respect to all contracts for equipment the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However,
said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contracts value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
Page  10
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall maintain the PSSU within its Ministry of Finance,
headed by a qualified officer and assigned with such functions,
responsibilities, staffing and funds as shall be required to adequately
coordinate and monitor the various activities under the Project.
2.  The Borrower shall, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank:
    (a)   by June 30, 1996, adopt and, thereafter, implement or cause to be
    implemented the detailed approach and workplan for professional
    accountant qualifying examinations;
    (b)   by July 31, 1996, complete the requirements documents for the
    Government Accounting System Second Release (GAS R.2.0);
    (c)   by May 31, 1997, adopt at least 15 accounting and 15 auditing
    standards;
    (d)   by September 30, 1997, complete the enrollment process of at least
    18 candidates for the overseas degree training program;
    (e)   by October 31, 1997, adopt and, thereafter, enforce or cause to
    be enforced at least 30 new rules and 10 disclosure guidelines for the
    regulation of Capital Markets;
    (f)   by November 30, 1997, complete and, thereafter, implement or cause
    to be implemented a pilot data communications system;
    (g)   by November 30, 1997, complete the acceptance tests of GAS R.2.0;
    and
    (h)   by July 31, 1999, adopt at least 40 accounting and 16 auditing
    standards.
3.  By November 30, 1997, the Borrower shall, in consultation with the Bank,
carry out a mid-term review of Project implementation to assess the
achievement and sustainability of the objectives of the Project and,
thereafter, take all such corrective measures as may be required to achieve
the objectives of the Project.
4.  The Borrower shall:  (a) cause its departments and agencies responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof to furnish to the PSSU
monthly progress Project implementation reports; and (b) through the PSSU,
furnish to the Bank semi-annual summary progress Project implementation
reports of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.  For these purposes, the Borrower shall adopt and maintain systems
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank for monitoring the various
activities under the Project.
5.  By October 31 of each year, commencing on October 31, 1994 and
thereafter until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, its proposed annual
work program and budgetary allocation for carrying out the Project during
the forthcoming Borrower's Fiscal Year, and, thereafter, taking into account
the Bank's comments, implement such programs and budget allocations.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, and 3 set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  11
    (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  12
6.  (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
