Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7253
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SMALL-SCALE AGRICULTURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 1643-ME)
May 27, 1988
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Acronyms
BANRURAL    National Rural Credit Bank
DGCD        General Directorate for the Coordination of
Delegations
DGIR        General Directorate for Rural Infrastructure
DGID        General Directorate of Irrigation and Drainage
GOM         Government of Mexico
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
LCB         Local Competitive bidding
NAFINSA     Nacional Financiera, Inc.
OHIADR      General Directorate of Hydraulic Works and
Agricultural Infrastructure for Rural Development
PIDER       Integral Rural Development Program
PNDR        National Plan for Small-Scale Agricultural
Infrastructure Development
SARH        Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
SPP         Ministry of Planning and Budget
SUDR        General Subdirectorate for Supervision of Rural
Development Units
B/C ratio   Benefit-Cost Ratio
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
M & E       Monitoring and Evaluation
O & M       Operation and Maintenance
PCR         Project Completion Report



FOR OMCIL. USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC 20413
U.S A
OImce d Dvectuw-Col
Op.uatm IvakMtrn'
May 18, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: Mexico
Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project (Loan 1643-ME)
Attached, for information. is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report: Mexico - Ssall-Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project
(Loan 1643-ME)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office. Under the modified system for project performance auditing further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not
been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanme
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SMALL-SCALE AGRICULTURAL INFRASTRJCTURE PROJECT (LOAN 1643-ME]
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
Basic Data Sheet ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    li
Evaluation Summary . .t.i.n.Sw.n. .i.v.. .   .  .  .  .   .    iv
I. INTRODUCTION .1. .    . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .    1
II. PROJECT FORMULATION                                      5
A.  Identification, Preparation  . . . . . . . . . .    5
B.  Appraisal  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
C.  Irrigation and Drainage Development in Mexico  .    6
III. IMPLEMENTATION                                           8
A. General  . . . .    .      .   .    . . . . . . . . . .    8
B.  Project Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
C. Credit    ............    .* * *    13
D.  0 & M and Cost Recovery  . . .   .         . . . . .    13
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . .   14
F.  Disbursements   . . .   . .   . . . .    .   . .   . .    14
G.  Procurement        . .. . . . . . . . ..-  15
H.  Reporting and Auditing . . . . . . . . . .  . .    15
I.  Adherence to Covenants . . . . .  .  .  .  .  . . . .   15
IV.  ECONOMIC AND AGRICULTURAL IMPACT                        16
A.  Project Benefits and Incremental Output  . .  .    16
B.  Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
V.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
VI.  BANK PERFORMANCE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                         17
A.  Conclusions . . .   . . *. .   . . . .   . . . . .    17
B.  Recommendations ....  .  .    .  .  .    ..  *....  19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only-in the perfiormance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
PROJECT COM?T,ETION REPORT                              Page No.
List of Annexes
I.   Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
II.   Follow-up Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . ...       22
III.   Withdrawal of Proceeds of the Loan . . . . . . . .   23
IV.   Rate of Return Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
V.   Assumptions for Benefit Analysis . . . . . . . . .    25
VI.   Comments from Borrower . . . . . . . ....             26
Map     IBRD 11879R



~Ico
SMALL-SCALE AGRICULTURAL INFRASTIWCTURE PROJECT (LOAN 1643-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Small-Scale
Agricultural Infrastructure Project in Mexico, for which Loan 1643-ME in
the amount of US$60.0 million was approved on December 12, 1978. The ioan
was closed on June 30, 1985, two years behind schedule. It was fully
disbursed and the last disbursement was on August 26, 1985.
The PCR was prepared by the Latin American and Caribbean Region,
Agriculture C Division, after a field visit in June-July 1987. The PCR is
based on data prepared by the Borrower since late 1985. Information on the
project was incomplete for two reasons: the loss of files as a result of
the September 1985 earthquake; and the reorganization of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (StRH). The PCR is also based on the
Staff Appraisal Report dated December 1, 1978 and the Loan, Guarantee and
Project agreements. Supervision reports, correspondence with the Borrower
and internal Bank memoranda on project implementation also were reviewed
and incorporated in the PCR as appropriate.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft PCR was sent to
the Borrower on February 23, "'988 for comments. Comments received from the
Government (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico and SAhR) have been
included and are attached as Annex VI.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT BASIC DATA SHEET
MEXICO: SMALL-SCALE AGRICULTURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT (LOAN 1643-ME)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual as X
Appraisal                    of Appraisal
Item                           Estimate         Actual      Estimate
Project Costs (USS million)                143.7           172.4         1202
Loan Aa-.unt 'US$ million)                  60.0           60.0          100Z
Date Board Approval                       121-178         12112178
Date Effectiveness                        05/08179       04/13/79
Date Physical Components Completed        12131/82       06/30/85
Proportion then Completed                   57X             1002
Closing Date                              06/30/83       06130/85
Econcmic Rate of Returx                     23.0             12
Financial Rate of Return                    n.a.            n.a.        n.a.
Number of Direct Beneficiaries             30,000          22,000
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FYd4   FY85
Appraisal Estimate
(US$ 000)                  0.3   21.4   34.6   48.8   60.0
Actual (US$ million)         1.7    4.1    8.2   16.3   23.6   55.9   60.0
Actual as % of Estimate       +    19.0   24.0   33.0   39.0   93.0  100.0
Date of Final Disbursement                                 August 26, 1985
STAFF INPUTS (staff-weeks)
FY77 FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86-87 TOTAL
Preparation    5.1                                                      5.1
Appraisal           61.0 16.0                                          77.0
Neogtiation               12.9                                         12.9
Supervision               1.8 11.1 c ..3  3.5 13.7  6.0  9.9           69.3
Completion     ___                                             9.0      9.0
5.1  61.0 30.7 11.1 23.3  3.5 13.7  6.C  9.9   9.0   173.3



- iii -
JISS.'ON DATA
Date     No.   Staff-   Type & No. of  StatusTrend    Type of
(mo.yr)    of    days in       of           of   of     Problems
Item               Persons  Field    Specialists    Proi.P o          4
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal        4178       6     171    a b(2),c d(2)
Supervision 1    3/79       3       6    a(2) b           1       -
Supervision 2   :2/79       4      12    a(2) d(2)        2       1       F,N
Supervision 3    7/80      2        5    d a              2       1       F,M,T
Supervision 4    8/80       2       7    a d              2       1       F,M,T
Supervision 5    3/81      2       22    a d              2       1       F,M,T
Supervision 6    7/81       1      15    a                2       1
Supervision 7    6/82       1       7    a                2       1       F,!M,T
Supervision 8    4/83       2      22    a d              2       1       F,M,T
Supervision 9   12/83       1      20    d                2       2       F,M,T
Supervision 10   1/85       2      12    a d              2       2       M,P,F
Supervision 11   5/85       1       6    d                2       2       M,F
Total (SPN)                  305
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower           National Finance, Inc (NAPINSA)
Executing Agency   Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH)
Fiscal Year        January 1 to December 31
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (peso)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year kverage (1978)                       US$ 1.00 -  23
Intervening Years Average (1979-84)                 US$ 1.00 -   -
Completion Year Average (1985)                      US$ 1.00 - 250
FOLLOW-ON PROJECT: Not applicable
l/ a) Agriculturalist; b) Agricultural economist; c) Financial specialist;
d) Irrigation engineer
2/ 1 - Improving;  2 - Stationary;  3 - Deteriorating
3/ 1/ - Problem-free or minor problems; 21 - Moderate problems; 3/ - Major
problems
4i F - Financial;  M = Management; T = Technical; P - Political



- iv -
MEXICO
SMALL-SCALE AGRICULTURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT (LOAN 1643-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
This was the fifth of six projects designed to promote the
development of small-scale agricultural  infrastructure  in Mexico by means
of small-scale irrigation, drainage and livestock schemes. Five of these
projects have been financed by loans of the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB), and one by an IBRD loan. The small-scale agricultural infrastructure
is s cational program that is being implementid in Mexico since early 1960.
Com; -ed to large agricultural infrastructure works this program is
spe< .ally attractive in periods of shortage of capital for investments
bec,-ase of the lower unit cost, the shorter time required for construction
of the small investments, and the rapid realization of benefits.
QoD ectives
The main project objective was to benefit directly 30,000 rural
families by irrigating 56,000 ha of dry lands, mostly (65%) by means of
tubewells; draining 36,000 ha of wet lsads; and constructing 50 livestock
production schemes. Of the total cost of the project, US$143.7, about 77%
was going to be invested in irrigation, 12% in drainage and 11% in
livestock infrastructure.    Beneficiaries  were  going  to  participate in
financing construction of the works, ead they would also cover the full
cost of operating and maintaining the schemes.
Implementation Experience
Since this was one of a series of already successful projects, the
institutional mechanisms were already in place and functioning smoothly.
The efficiency and motivation of the agencies involved were important
elements in maintaining continuity  and  progress.   Total project cost was
120% of appraisal estimate because of slightly higher infrastructure costs
and unexpected purchase of pumping equipment.
The expansion of land for irrigation, with 50,000 ha. added was
almost 90% of what was targeted at appraisal. Tubewell infrastructure
development, which received half (US$87.4 million) of project investment,
was completed in 28,000 ha, or 80% of the targeted land. Total investment
in irrigation development was US$131.8, with an average cost of US$2,200
per ha.
Drainage infrastructure was complcted in 16,000 ha, or 44% of what
was targeted  at  appraisal,  at  a. cost  of  US$11.7  million.   Drainage
development is an excellent investment because of its low cost (US$1,075)
per hectare,  and  its  positive  impact  on  production.    Its potential,
however, is limited to humid areas with good agricultural potential.



The livestock component of the project performed poorly, no
surprise since the levels of experience, planning and organization were all
deficient; and the market conditions, prices of meat and milk, also were
unfavorable for its development.    The result for livestock infrastructure
were skewed by the addition of extensive sub-projects and thus showed
dramatic additions (almost 300%) over what was targeted at appraisal.
IBRD's    performance    during    preparation,    appraisal   and
implementation was timely and effective.   Bank's staff time devoted to the
project was 173.3 staff-weeks  of  which  305  staff-days were spent in the
field, a relatively small amount  for  a  complex national projezt with 351
subprojects. Project management was very good.
Results
About 22,300 rural families benefitted directly as a result of the
project,  wi .h  indirect  employment  of  another  10,000  expected.    The
estimated economic rate of return (ERR), excluding the livestock component,
was 12%. The result is lower than the ERR of 23% estimated at appraisal
because of the  follkwing  differences:    (a)  economic  prices during the
project implementation period were lower than those projected at appraisal;
(b) the total area benefitted by investment on irrigation and drainage was
smaller--by about 25%-- and the project total cost somewhat higher--by
about 202--than those estimated at appraisal; (c) about 15% of tubewell
investments were lost due to unproductive wells; and (d) subproject
investments, specially storege dams, took longer to const :uct than expected
at appraisal.
Sustainability
The sustainability  of  the  different  subprojects  varies.   The
irrigation and drainage subprojects show high sustainability as long as
adequate financing is secured to operate and maintain the infrastructure in
good working  coadition.    Beneficiaries  participation  in  financing the
investments, as well as in  bearing  the  cost of operating and maintaining
agricultural infrastructire, is essential to obtain high sustainability.
Findings and Lessons
Active involvement of the beneficiaries in the subprojects is
essential  for  success.    The   most   effective way  to  achieve  their
participation is to have the beneficiaries bear and finance part of the
construction cost through credit made available for this purpose, as has
been done with the tubewell schemes. The beneficiaries' assumption of part
of the cost of the hydraulic infrastructure, beginning at the outset of the
project rather than later, increased the level of commitments of the
members of the users' association to use the infrastructure effectively, to
recover quickly the money invested in it.
The lengthy implementation periods for dam subprojects to irrigate
more than 1,000 ha tightened scarce investment funds in a few subprojects.
This could have been avoided if the size of the dam subproject were limited
to a given amount of area to be irrigated or by setting a ceiling in the
cost of dams that would be included in the project. The beneficiaries of



- vi -
storage dam schemes also seem to be less eager to optimize water use and
crop production. Perhaps they feel less responsible sinc^ they have less
invested and committed than the farmers benefitting from the tubowell
schemes; the latter pay for electricity and equipment while the former pay
nothing. Organizing the farmers is also more difficult in the case of
dams, since the average scheme (700 ha) involves the organization of 140
farmers. Furthermore, the water supply of dam schemes is not as reliable
as that of tubeaells; this fact became painfully evident in 1987 when a
drought hit the Central Region.
Drainage development is also an excellent development alternative
because of its low investment cost per hectare and its positive impact on
production, since it transforms unproductive, waterlogged land into fully
productive acreage. Drainage development has excellent potential in the
coastal plains of the humid southeastern region, in the states of Tabasco,
Veracruz and Chiapas, but is also a possibility in waterlogged depressions
around  lakes  and  river  in  the  semi-arid  central  region.    However,
beneficiar43s especially in the  larger  subprojects have been difficult to
organize and educate about the need for maintenance, especially of the
larger drains which are mechanically maintained.
Beneficiaries, organized in users' associations, are responsible
for cperating and maintaining the small-scale agricultural infrastructure
constructed by the  Government.    SARH  oversees  that users' associations
fulfill their  commitments  by  periodic  supervisions.    This  set up, in
general, works quite well.    However,  for  difficult  cases  such as new
schemes  where  beneficiaries   have   little   experience  with  irrigated
agriculture or in large schemes requiring more complex organization and
management, SARH, due mainly to shortage of funds, has been unable to
provide to beneficiaries the extended and intensive training needed to
overcome these difficult cases.
The  relatively  minor  livestock  component  fared  poorly.   The
infrastructure provided was not used adequately to increase livestock
production as was intended, because of management, credit and marketing
problems.



MEXICO
SMALL-SCALE AGRICULTURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT (LOAN 1643-ME)
PROJECT COL"FTON REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The purpose of  this  project  was  to  promote the development of
small-scale agricultural infrastructure in Mexico using irrigation, also on
a small-scale. It was the fifth of six projects designed for this purpose.
Five of them have been financed by loans of the Inter-American Development
Bank (1DB),  and  one  by  an  IBRD  loan.    The  small-scale agricultural
infrastructure project was a national one, with implications for the entire
population, given the nature of its goals and results, but especially for
the rural population engaged in agriculture (272). In fact, this project
was part  of  one  of  the  government's  most  important  programs  in the
agricultural sector, with significant potential for the tuture given the
need and success to date.
1.02     Thus, this project fits well into the Government of Mexico's (GOM)
priorities for development which are aimed at increasing the production of
basic  food  crops  in   order   to  achieve  self-sufficiency,  increasing
employment levels, and generating employment opportunities and improving
income among the rural poor.
1.03     The project also formed  part  of  the  Bank's overall strategy to
assist develop agriculture in Mexico, through water control projects;
development of new lands in the humid regions; technical assistance
programs; agricultural credit extended on a naticnal, regional or project
basis; rural development programs; and conventional itrigation projects.
1.04     This is a  Project  Completion  Report  (PCR)  for the Small-Scale
Agricultural Infrastructure Project (Loan 1643-ME). The Loan Guarantee and
Project Agreements are dated February 6,  1979.   The total loan amount waq
US$60.0 million, approved by the Board on December 12, 1978. The loan was
fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on August 26, 1985.
1.05     The PCR was prepared  by  the  Latin America and Caribbean Region,
Agricultural Division C, after a field visit in June-July 1987. The PCR is
based on data prepared by the Borrower since 1985, that information remains
incomplete  for  two  reasons:    the  reorganization  of  the  Ministry of
Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH); and the loss of files as a
result of the September 1985  earthquake.    The  PCR  is also based on the
Staff Appraisal Report dated December 1, 1978 and the Loan, Guarantee and
Project agreements. Supervision reports, correspondence with the Borrower
and internal Bank memoranda on project implementation also were reviewed
and incorporated in the PCR as appropriate.
1.06     The Government of Mexico  (GOM) prepared, coordinated and executed
the project, complemented by limited Bank role in supervision, data
analysis, and project  formulation.    The  Bank supported the government's
inclusion at minimal cost of a livestock infrastructure component in the
project despite the agency inexperience; this was the one component of the
project that cannot be called a success, for reasons enplained below.
1.07     SARH implemented the  project  through  its General Directorate of
Hydraulic Works and Agricultural Infrastructure (OhIADR) and its General
Subdirectorate for Supervision of Rural Development Units (SUDR). The



former was in charge of all infrastructure works, and SUDR provided
technical  assistance  to  farmers.    At  the  local  level,  farmers were
organized  into  User's   Associations,   responsible   for  operating  and
maintaining the irrigation works they used.
1.08     The  original  project   included  these  sub-project  components:
tubewell development; storage and diversion dams; pumping plants; drainage;
and livestock. (Pumping equipment was added on later.) There were a total
of 351 sub-projects, dispersed over 27 of 31 states of Mexico.
1.09     The single most striking fact  about the project is the incomplete
nature  of  the  data,  as   mentioned   above.       The  two  events,  SARH
reorganization and the 1985 earthquake, effectively ended any hope of being
able to quantify many of the most important results. That lack of data
also means that any final judgements on the success or failure of the
sub-project components must be tempered by a qualifying note.
1.10     Nevertheless,   this   small-scale   agricultural   infrastructure
project, which focussed on hydraulic infrastructure, was effective for
these reasons:
(a)  Small-scale  irrigation  schemes   are  especially  effective
because: of a low unit cost, when investment capital is
limited; rapid realization of benefits, both agricultural and
otherwise;  and   a   shorter   construction   period.    The
applicability of this factor extends to many nations in
situations like that of Mexico.
(b)  Since  this  was  one  of  a  series  of  already  successful
projects,  the  institutional   mechanisms  were  functioning
smoothly. The cooperation from the GOM and the efficiency
and motivation of the agencies and their staff members
involved  were   important   elements   in maintaining  that
continuity and progress.
(c)  The beneficiaries' assumption  of  part  of  the  cost of the
hydraulic infrastructure, beginning at the outset of the
project rather than later, increased the level of commitment
of the aembers of the Users' Associations to operating and
maintaining the infrastructure.   The tubewell sub-project in
particular was the most successful, in part for this reason.
Thus, the concept of a financial partnership even at the
individual user's level proved effective.
(d)  Drainage development is  an  excellent  investment because of
its low cost per hectare, and its positive impact on
production.   Its  potential,  however,  is  limited to humid
states.
1.11     Conversely,  the  project's  effectiveness  has  been  hampered by
certain factors:
(a) The lengthy implementation periods for large dam tighted
scarce investment funds in few sub-projects. This could be



- 3 -
avoided if the historical budgeting allocations are taken
into account to set a limit on the dam size and cost that
wou'ld   be   included   in   the   small-scale   agricultural
infrastructure projects.
(b) Unlike participants in the tubewell schemes, storage dam
scheme farmers are not well organized and have no financial
in- stment from the outset in their operations; such a
cost-sharing procedure could help correct the situation.
(c)  The livestock component of  the  project performed poorly, no
surprise  since  the  levels   of  experience,  planning  and
organization were all deficient; the market conditions also
were unfavorable for its development.
(d) Credit problems and associated deficiencies also hampered the
development of the livestock sub-project.
(e) There was no monitoring and evaluation of the sub-projects, a
fact which greatly diminished the amount of data available to
properly and fully  evaluate  the  project.   Other obstacles
also played a role, including the 1985 earthquake, the
reorganization o4 SARH, budget cuts and the fact that
investments varied and were diffused over 27 states.
(f)  Inflation  made   it   more   difficult   to  collect  users'
association water fees to cover part of investment costs, as
did the method of cost-sharing, spread over 25 years, with an
initial 4-year grace period.
1.12     Certain project achievements should be mentioned:
(a) Tubewell infrastructure development, which received half
(US$87.4 m) the project investment, was completed in 80%
(28,000 ha) of the targeted land.
(b) The expansion of land for irrigation was almost what had been
t4rgeted, with 89% (50,000 ha) added, while expansion for
drainage was 44% (16,000 ha).
(c) The results for livestock were skewed by the addition of
extensive sub-projects and thus showed dramatic additions
(almost 300%). However, in reality, it achieved about what
was expected at appraisal.
(d) Project costs were 120% of appraisal estimate because of
slightly higher infrastructure costs and the unexpected
purchase of pumping equipment.
(e) Approximately 22,300 additional farm families were employed
as a result of the project, with indirect employment of
another 10,000 expected.
(g) Farm earnings increased on average from about $350.00 to
$7,500 per family.



- 4 -
(h) The ERR was 12%, at constant 1978 prices, lower than
estimated at appraisal for various reasons explained below.
(i) Staff time supervising the project was 305 field staff-days,
a relatively small amount for a complex national undertaking,
with 351 sub-projects.
1.13     Finally, a few recommendations should be noted here:
(a) With the planned elimination by 1990 of the subsidy of the
cost of energy, there is a greater need to promote cost-
sharing -lans more rapidly and more widely.
(b) In the future, beneficiaries should contribute toward those
costs with special credit from BANRURAL.
(c) A mid-implementation evaluation would have helped redirect
efforts where necessary, i.e., livestock sub-projects.
Other more specific recommendations are found in VII, and suggestions for
follow-up projects are found in Annex II.



- 5 -
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
A. Identification and Preparation
2.01     This project originated as A: logical part of an on-going national
program to develop productive, small-scale agricultural Infrastructure,
based mainly on small-scale irrigation.    The program itself dates back to
1937, when the Directorate for Small-Scale Irrigation was created within
the  National  Cotmmission  for  Irrigation   to  benefit  small  groups  of
low-income farmers.   As  a  result  of  the  December  1976  merger of the
Ministry of Hydraulic Resources and the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock into the SARH, the scope of the small-scale irrigation program
was enlarged to include providing the infrastructure for drainage and
livestock development as well. At the same time, the project was renamed
the National Plan for Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Development
(PNDR).  Responsibility for its  implementation    was given to OHIADR with
support from the SUDR to provide technical assistance to the farmers
involved in the project.
B. Appraisal
2.02     This is the fifth  in  a  series of six small-scale infrastructure
projects. All of the other projects, including the sixth, which is still
being implemented, have been supported by Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) loans. At appraisal in April 1978, three projects already had been
successfully implemented, adding about 300,000 ha to Mexico's irrigable
area, which now totals 5,800,000 ha.
2.03     Evaluation data from  the  third  project  which were available at
appraisal,  also  showed  very  positive   results.    These  included  low
investment cost per hectare and per family; a positive effect on the rural
poor; improved and more intensive use of the land; and a shorter period of
time needed by sub-projects to achieve full production.
2.04     In addition to these  excellent  =ouc-ic  and social results, the
executing agencies already had proved to be efficient, highly motivated
organizations whose efforts to a considerabla ettent made the program a
success.
2.05     Since OHIADR had  been made  responsibl_.  for  the development of
livestock infrastructure the GOM proposed the inclusion of a livestock
component in the project, to absorb about 52 of total infrastructure costs.
The Bank agreed with this proposal, since it woAld develop areas which were
generally uncultivated becau.,e of poor rainfall and poor soil as well as
the fact that its occupants lacked the necessary resources to obtain credit
for improvements and had few, if any alternatives, for development
assistance. However, at appraisal, no assessment was made of earlier
experience with livestock infrastructure schemes, as had been done with the
hydraulic sub-projects.   This  may  have  been,  because OHIADR's one-year
experience in livestock was too short a time on which to base an
a3sessment.



- 6 -
2.06     To ensure that the sub-projects  selected would meet the necessary
standards, it was agreed during negotiations that, they should be approved
by the Bank based on feasibility reports, and that the Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) for each sub-project would be at least 12%, or that the
Benefit-Cost Ratio (B/C ratio), as used by the OHIADR would be higher than
1.0 at a discount rate of 12%.    To ensure the project's maximum impact on
the rural poor, the average investment per sub-project family would have to
be less than  US$10,000  (Letter  02/16/79).    Beneficiaries would have to
agree to take full responsibility for the operation and maintenance (O&M)
of infrastructure, and the funding as well, through their water users'
association. They would also bear part of the investment cost, which was
to be recovered according to normal PNDR procedures.
2.07     During implermentation, the sub-project  cost  limit per family was
increased to $20,000, because costs in general had escalated (Letter of
Amendment 05120/81).
C. Irrigation and Drainage Development in Mexico
2.08     It is a fact of life  that  water  is a scarce resource in Mexico.
About 33% of the land classified is arid, with less than 250 mm of rainfall
per year, and 31% semi-arid, with between 250 mm and 500 mm annually.  This
scarcity of water is compounded further by the fact that about 80% of the
population and most cities and industries are located in the arid and
semi-arid regions. Taken together, scarcity of water and increasing urban
and industrial demands mean increasing competition for limited resources.
That this is a serious national predicament is seen in: (a) the paramount
importance that Mexican legislation gives to Government intervention for
the allocation, use and conservation of water resources; and (b) the amount
of public investment devoted to supplying water to cities and towns, and to
the development of irrigation.
2.09     Seventy years  ago,  the  Constitution  of  1917 established water
resources as the property of the state and ruled that concessions for its
use could be granted only by the Federal Government , a measure currently
authorrized by the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH). The
Federal Law provides the legal framework for the allocation, use and
conservation of the nation's water resources and designates irrigation
districts and irrigation units as the legal entities responsible for
irrigation. Irrigation districts are large schemes constructed and owned
by the Government, but maintained and operated by SARH staff under guidance
from the District Directive Committee, which is composed of government and
farmers representatives.    These  irrigation  districts  typically involve
large dams associated with complex irrigation and drainage systems, as well
as roads and other infrastructure.    Throughout Mexico, there are 83 large
irrigation districts responsible for 3.6 million ha, which benefit about
486,000 farm families, with an average farm size of 7.0 ha. Recently, with
SARH's reorganization in 1986, irrigation and rainfed districts were
consolidated in 192 Districts for Integral Rural Development, with 7t0
Centros de Apoyo. The Centro de Apoyo is the basic territorial unit for
planning and providing agricultural services to farmers.
2.10     The irrigation  units,  on  the  other  hand,  are  small schemes,
constructed and owned by  the  Government,  but  operated and  aintained by



members of the unit itself, with periodic supervision from SARH; irrigation
units are usually designed and planned at the state level. Currently there
are about 26,000 irrigation units in Mexico, totalling 1.3 million ha,
which supply 442,000 farm families, with an average farm size of 3.0 ha.
Most of the units rely on groundwater.
2.11     Traditionally in  Mexico  investments  in  irrigation schemes have
represented about 85% of public investment in the agricultural sector.
Most investment to date has been to expand the amount of land irrigated,
with about 20% invested to improve and rehabilitate irrigation schemes.
Since 1960, there has been an impressive expansion of the area irrigated,
and of both irrigation districts and irrigation units:
Table 1
Irrigation District  Irrigation Units               Total
Area Increased        Area Increased      Area Increased
Period        In Period   Cumul.     in P-riod   Cumul.   in Period   Cumul.
(thousand of hectares)
Before 1960        -       1,649          -        337        -      1,986
1961-1970        838      2,485         262        689    1,088      3,074
1971-1980        916      8,400         411      1,000   1,,326      4,400
1981-1985        800      3,700         800      1,300      600      6,000
2.12     It is important to note the  role of irrigation units in expanding
the irrigated area from 1981 to 1985, at the same time that Mexico
experienced a period of  acute  economic  difficulty.    Table 1 shows that
small irrigation schemes can become even more attractive for a nation like
Mexico when there is a shortage of capital for investment for several
reasons: their lower unit cost; the shorter time required for construction
of the units; and the rapid realization of benefits; both agricultural and
otherwise.
2.13     Thus, the development of  a productive hydraulic infrastructure is
one of GOM's main programs to increase agricultural production and, at the
same time, improve conditions for the rural population. The projects which
GOM devised to meet those objectives can be grouped in the following
categories:
(i)  Productive  small-scale  hydraulic  infrastructure,  of which
this completed project is a part;
(ii)  productive,  small-scale  hydraulic  infrascructure  combined
with productive support works  (roads).   The Chiapas Project
(Loan 2526-ME) falls under this category;
(iii)  productive  small-scale  hydraulic  infrastructure  with both
productive support infrastructure (roads and electricity) and



social infrastructure (schools, drinking water, etc.), which
is onl- required in the country's poorest subregions. Loans
made   through   Mexico's   Investment   Program   for  Rural
Development PIDER I (Loan 1110-ME) and II (Loan 1467-ME)
provide for these needs;
(iv)  rehabilitation,  modernization   and   completion   of  large
irrigation systems.    The  Rio  Fuerte/Sinaloa Project (Loan
1706-ME) and the proposed Northwest Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project are part of this component; and
(v)  new irrigation systems which require the development of water
supply works (storage dams) as well as distribution works and
which are therefore  expensive.    The  Ocoroni Project (Loan
1908-ME) and the Apatzingan Project (Loan 1858-ME) are
samples   of   this.       The   latter   has   an   important
repair/refurnishing component and therefore falls partly
under category (iv).
2.14     The  program  for  the   development  of  productive,  small-scale
hydraulic infrastructure, of which this project is part, is one of GOM's
most important programs, and because of its sizeable potential, will remain
so in the future.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. General
3.01     The loan was approved  in  December  1978  and became effective in
April 1979. The SAR assumed a fo4r years implementation, with project
completion expected by December 31, 1987.  rhe actual implementation period
was about 6 1/2 years with the project closing on June 30, 1985. The main
causes of delay were that, first, at the beginning of the project, the
designs for irrigation and drainage sub-projects had not yet been completed
and second, that funding was restricted in the later years of the project
because of Mexicos's economic difficulties.
3.02     The  Bank's  supervisory  input  in  the  project  was  relatively
limited. Eleven supervision missions visited the country in the 6 1/2 year
period, requiring a total of 305 field staff-days. The table belo:r shows
projected goals and actual accomplishments, organized by major project
components.



- 9 -
PROJECTED AND ACHIEVED GOALS
Sub-project      Physical    Beneficiaries  Investment
No. Units        Hectares    Families    USt million
Pro3ected Achieved   Pro].  Achlv. Pro]. Achiev. Pro]. Achlev.
Tubow*ll      (9rn)1 218 (S36)1/ 86,60M  28,000  n.s.  9,700 n.a.  82.6
Storage
Diversion
Dam            20   25          12,600  17,0W  n.e.  4,809 n.e.  89.4
PumDing Plant    18   16         8,000   5.000  n.s.  1.291 n.s.   9.8
Irrigation
Subtotal        -   259 (636)3/ 56,000  60,000  n.e. 16,800 110.2 181.8
Draingea         -    18        36.000  16.000  n.e.  2.174 17.4  11.7
Irrigation and
Drainage Subt.    -   272 (636)1/ 92,000  66,000  n.a. 17,974 127.6 148.6
Livestock        -    79        68,000 172,000  n.e.  4,861 16.1  17.9
Pumping
EquiDment       -    - (428)1/   -       -          -      -     11.0
Total        250  861 (963)1/ 160,000 288,000 80,000 22,836 143.7 172.4
1  (    ) = number of tubewells or pumping plants.
3.03     Total project investment was 20%  higher  than appraised.  Of that
total, 51S went into tubewells, 231 to storage and diversion dams, 6% to
pumping  plant  irrigation,   71   to   drainage,   and  10%  to  livestock
infrastructure.
3.04     The expansion in hectares was  slightly  below what was planned at
appraisal, with 50,000 ha developed for irrigation (89Z) and 16,000 ha for
drainage (44Z). Investment in livestock infrastructure was about what was
planned  at  appraisal  but,  due   to  the  inclusion  of  more  extensive
sub-projects, it actually shows far more improvementE, with 172,000 ha
developed (2961).
3.05     The increased project costs  over  those  expected are mainly due,
first, to the higher cost of the irrigation infrastructure, which averaged
US$2,640/ha, or 34% above appraisal estimates and, second, the addition in
1983 of a component to purchase pumping equipment (US$11.0 M). The latter
was used to complete sub-projects not included in the project which had
funding problems.
3.06     Of  t:he  five  sub-project  categories  completed  thus  far,  the
tubewell sub-projects have been the most successful, particularly in length
of time for implementation, farmers' response and cost-sharing. Drainage
and pumping plants were the next most successful, but had less satisfactory
cost-sharing arrangements; they were followed by storage dams, which had
less satisfactory implementation periods, farmers' response and cost-



- 10 -
sharing. Nevertheless, all of these sub-projects created viable development
components, and important and  tangible  result.   However, the majority of
the livestock sub-projects have been disappointing in terms of farmers'
response  and  cost-sharing  arrangements.    These  factors,  coupled with
stagnant meat and dairy prices in recent years, have made the livestock
component less than marginally viable.
B. Proiect Components
3.07     Tubewells.  More  than  half  of  the  project  investmenc was for
tubewell development (US$87.4  M).    The  appraisal objective of equipping
36,000 ha has been substantially achieved (80%), with the development of
infrastructure on 28,000 ha.
3.08     In general, the tubewell projects were  well prepared, as expected
of OHIADR, given its years of experience. Its designs provided the minimum
infrastructure necessary for adequate operation and maintenance. However,
the impression remains that OHIADR was rushed into producing sub-projects
without having had sufficient time to study the hydrogeology of the wells
since, at the beginning of the project implementation, the preparation of
hydraulic sub-projects had not been completed.   The number of wells in the
initial proposals totalled 998, spread over 360 sub-projects. In the end,
535 wells in 218 sub-projects were constructed. In the state of Zacatecas
in particular the attrition rate was high (56%) because groundwater
potential did not  meet  expectations.    Lost  investment  as  a result of
preliminary studies, geophysical exploration, test wells and production
wells, the latter mainly due to Insufficient tubewell capacity amounted to
15% of the cost of viable tubewells. In Mexico, where exploitable aquifers
are of the alluvial type and therefore rather predictable, losses could
have been reduced if more studies at the pre-feasibility level has been
made of the hydrogeological conditions in the project areas.
3.09     The quality of the  groundwater  has  been  good in general and no
salinity problems  have  been  reported.    Only  two  tubewells  had to be
abandoned because of saline water (Oaxaca - BM 145 and Michoacan - BM 267).
3.10     It was not  possible  for  the  farmers  to  monitor the water-use
because flow-meters were not provided.   Although they had been included in
the PNDR's first projects, they were omitted in later ones, since farmers
showed not interested, probably due to a lack of extension service efforts
to train them in the benefits of good water management.
3.11     Storage  and  Diversion  Dams.    The  development  of  small  dam
irrigation constituted the second most important financial component of the
project, after tubewells, at 23%  of  total project investment.  There were
25 schemes  serving  an  average  of  700  ha  each,  with  the largest one
irrigating 3,665 ha.  Two-thirds  of  the operations were storage dams, and
one-third diversion dam.
3.12     Larger sub-projects were hurt  by long implementation periods (5-7
years). In fact, one sub-project in Jalisco has not yet been completed;
the problem is typical for large  projects  in Mexico in general.   Due to
political necessity scarce investment funds have to be spread-out each year
over as many sub-projects as possible, making it difficult to concentrate



- 11 -
funding on a few large sub-projects. For future small-scale infrastructure
projects, therefore, the size of storage dams that would be included should
be decided by considering the availability of funds--budgetary allocations-
-to avoid tightening scarce investment funds in few large sub-projects.
3.13     The beneficiaries of  storage  dam  schemes  also  seem to be less
eager to optimize water-use and  crop  production.   Pert aps they feel less
responsible since they have less invested and committed than the farmers
benefitting from the tubewell schemes; the latter pay for electricity and
equipment which the former  pay  nothing.    Organizing the farmers is also
more difficult in the case of dams, since the average scheme (700 ha)
involves the organization of approximately 140 farmerr. Furthermore, the
water supply of dam schemes is not as reliable as that of a tubewell; this
fact became painfully evident !.his year (1987) when a drought hit the
Central Region.
3.14     One remedy for the  lack  of  farmers' involvement is to institute
cost-sharing by requiring their participation in financing part of the
project cost at the outset instead of waiting until afterwards, when water
charges would be spread over a 25-year period.
3.15     The problem  of  the  variability  of  the  water  supply could be
mitigated by incorporating tubewells in the sub-projects. This appears to
be a particularly appropriate solutior. for the Joia de Mulas storage dam
scheme in Guanajato.   In this  case a partly filled reservoir, a result of
the 1987 drought, and a dispute over water rights on a canal shared with a
neighboring scheme have resu.lted in very poor utilization of the land.
3.16     PumpinR Plants.  The  development  of  the pumping plant component
constituted a valuable project component, even though it used only 7% of
total project investment.    Since  pumping  plants  depend for their water
supply on rivers or lakes, in general already nearly exploited to full
capacity, the potential for further pumping plant development is relatively
limited.
3.17     Drainage.  Drainage  development,  although  also  a minor project
component, with only 7% of total project investment, is also an excellent
development alternative because of its low investment cost per hectare
(US$700/ha), and its positive impact on production, since it transforms
unproductive,  waterlogged  land  into  fully  productive  acreage.   Thus,
drainage is an excellent way for the GOM to raise agricultural production
and improve the living conditions of its beneficiaries while keeping the
costs low. Drainage development has excellent potcntial in the coastal
plains of the humid southeastern    region,  in the states of Tabasco, Vera
Cruz and Chiapas, but is also a possibility in waterlogged depressions
around  lakes  and  rivers  in  the  semi-arid  central  region.   However,
beneficiaries especially in the larger sub-projects (the largest is 4,500
ha), have been difficult to organize and educate about the need for
maintenance, especially of the larger drains which are mechanically
maintained.
3.18     The  dam  scheme  cost-sharing  plan,  which  levies  annual water
charges for 25 years, is not very effective in giving farmers a sense of
being owners with full responsibility for maintenance and operation of the



- 12 -
dams.    For  future  projects,   the  GOM    should  consider  alternative
arrangeiments, wa.'reby the beneficiaries  finance  part of the project works
themselves with appropriate types of credit  beginning at the outset of the
projects.
3.19     Livestock.  This relatively  minor  project component, with 10X of
investment,  fared  poorly.    The  infrastructure  provided  was  not used
adequately to increase livestock production as was incended, because of
management, credit and marketing problems.
3.20     The main impediments to a more successful livestock component have
been:
(a) OHIADR's lack of experience in the sector led to sub-projects
which were overdesigned and too costly. At appraisal it was
just one year since OHIADR had been made responsible for the
development of small-scale infrastructure for livestock.
'hus,  an  accurate  assessment   of  previous  problems  and
successes in developing livestock infrastructure enterprises
was not possible then given OHIADR's inexperience.
(b)  The  beneficiaries'   experience   with  intensive  livestock
raising methods  and  their  lack  of  skills  and motivation
needed for collective management meant a gap in execution of
the project.
(c) The large additional investment to be provided by the farmers
through medium- and short-term credit for iutputs such as
improved  livestock,   feed   and   veterinary  services  was
significant, compared to the relatively small input to be
provided by their existing resources in cattle, land, crop
production and labor.
(d) Since the end of 1985, the prices of meat and dairy products,
which are not subsidized by GOM, heve not kept pace with the
price increases in feed and other inputs.
3.21     The most  successful  livestock  sub-projects  were  those  with a
relatively  simple  infrastructure,  a   low   level  of  additional  input
requirements, and technology with which the beneficiaries were already, to
a large extent, acquainted.   Typical  of such operations are the livestock
fattening sub-projects in Tabasco, in the humid Southeast region, where
thexe is no need to purchase supplemental feed because the rainfall is
adequate for year-round growing of crops and pasture.
3.22     The project's livestock development component  can be said to have
had the same results as of a similar livestock sub-project component in the
PIDER II project. However, in addition, this livestock component was hurt
by domestic meat and dairy marketing conditions, which were deteriorating
since the end of 1985.   (The problems and results of livestock development
in the PIDER II Project (Loan 1464-ME) were extensively analyzed in its
completion report of June 1986).
3.23     In the  PIDER II project  PCR,  it was estimated that about 501 of
the livestock enterprise did not operate at all or was operated poorly.



- 13 -
The rate of return for the total investment in livestock development was
calculated at approximately 9%.
C. Credit
3.24     The project did  not  include  a  credit  component because it was
assumed by GOM that existing facilities and institutions had adequate
resources to meet incremental  demand.    However, crucial to the project's
success was the medium-term credit required for financing the purchase of
tubewell equipment and livestock; this was to be provided by the state's
National Rural Credit Bank (BANRURAL).    Sufficient credit was provided to
buy the tubewell equipment although, in some cases, the credit was released
rather slowly, plagued by a large service debt in users' associations, and
by an inadequate budget in field branches because of the difficult economic
circumstances at that time. No data have been made available on the total
credit amount but, based on tubewells installed, it is the approximate
equivalent of US$15 million, whereas the amount of medium-term credit for
the purchase of livestock has been minor by comparisons. Since the end of
1985, when meat and dairy prices deteriorated and profits from livestock
enterprises seemed unlikely, BANRURAL has almost completely cut its credit
line dedicated to livestock purchases.
3.25     The amount of incremental  demand  for short-term credit generated
by the project is also unknown.  Based on an area of 66,000 ha added by the
project, 't is estimated that the equivalent of US$10-15 million would have
been needed to make an adequate productive use of constructed irrigation
and drainage infrastructure.
D.  O&M and Cost Recovery
3.26     In general, O&M work was satisfactorily performed and was paid for
by the beneficiaries who are organized in water users' associations for the
purposes of the irrigation and drainage sub-projects.
3.27     These associations &ppear to be  best organized and most active in
using the tubewell schemes. This can be explained by the clear need for
prompt repair of the tubewells' mechanical and electrical equipment in case
of breakdown and by the need for prompt payment of electricity bills. The
cost of energy is about Mex$20 per kwh, of which 2/3 is subsidized by GOM.
However, the subsidy is being reduced, with the goal of eliminating it by
the end of 1990.
3.28     With average energy  requirements  of  1,000  kwh per hectare, the
current average annual payment of the equivalent of US$6.5/ha would be
increased to US$20.00/ha by at the end of 1990 if the GOM subsidy were
eliminated. All other O&M charges or costs are paid for by contributions,
either in-kind, (mostly labor), or b; annual quotas, with major repairs
financed through ad hoc levies.   The  tasks of operating the tubewells and
distributing the water are often performed by the beneficiaries themselves
on a rotating basis.
3.29     In all hydraulic schemes, the total cost of the required O&M work,
including  labor   and   energy,   is   the   equivalent  of  approximately
US$10/ha/year. In storage dam schemes where there is no pumping, the



- 14 -
savings on energy costs are offset by  higher O&M costs for dams and larger
irrigation networks. However, since the project works are new, the need
for maintenance is minimal; therefore, farmers thus far have been required
to contribute much less than they will in the future.
3.30     The beneficiaries began their ma4.ntenance of the drains by cutting
weeds growing there. Since the drains are new, there has been no need to
rent equipment (backhoes) from  SARH  to  clean  the drains and remove silt
deposits. Thus, there have been no ptoblems ti date.
3.31     Cost-sharing by  t}e  beneficiaries  has  been very satisfactorily
arranged in the case  of  the  tubewell  sub-project.   The farmers finance
about 95% of its construction cost by paying for the mechanical and
electrical equipment (such as the transformer) through BANRURAL credit. In
the case of the other sub-projects, cost recovery will be achieved through
annual charges, paid over a 21-year period after an initial grace period of
4  years.   However, each year the amount has to be renegotiated because of
inflation. Unfortunately, the annual charges make the beneficiaries feel
they are renters rather than owners; naturally, then, they do not feel
responsible for the conservatio'n of  the  project works.  Thus, recovery of
project costs through annual :harges is a less than satisfactory procedure.
In the future, the possibility should be considered for all sub-project
categories that beneficiaries contribute from the outset, using a special
line of credit from the BANRURAL, as is done with tubewells costs.
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation
3.32     Due  to  SARH's  decreasing  operational  budgets  monitoring  and
evaluation  of  the  implementation  of  the  sub-projects  was inadequate.
Furthermore, the failure to maintain  a  continual account of the physical
progress and the effects of the sub-projects on agricultural development,
summarized in semi-annual progress  reports,  was  the  main reasor for the
poor information available to prepare the PCR. OHIADR's reports focused
mainly on the progress of construction despite the fact that the Bank
continually asked that this lack of appropriate information be redressed.
However,  it    did  not  ask  the  cooperation  of  BANRURAL  for  data on
agricultural production.    Overall,  the  monitoring  and evaluation (M&E)
system faced certain obstacles: (a) the inherent difficulty and high cost
of collecting technical, financial, socioeconomic and production data from
a large variety of different types of investments scattered over a wide
geographical area in 27 Mexican states; (b) the fact that SARH field visits
were curtailed due to budget restrictions, which also involved a reduction
of personnel; (c) the  reorganization  and  decentralization of SARH, which
included the reassignment and dispersion of staff members who were familiar
with the project; and (d)  the  fact  that  important data were lost in the
September 1985 earthquake in Mexico City.
F.  Disbursements
3.33     Disbursements initially were  three  years behind schedule because
of a slow project start. Delays were reduced to approximately one year by
1984, with the replacement of cancelled sub-projects and the procurement of
additional equipment at the end of 1983, but rose again to roughly two
years by the time of the final disbursement.



- 15 -
Fiscal Year   Appraisal Estimate   Actual Total    Actual as x of
Appraisal
1979               0.3                 1.70            0.56
1980              21.4                 4.10            0.13
1981              34.6                 8.20            0.23
1982              48.8                16.28            0.33
1983              60.0                23.63            0.40
1984                -                 55.98            0.93
1985                                  60.00          100.00
Procurement
3.34     No  problems  worth  mentioning   have  arisen  from  procurement.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) has been limited to the purchase of
construction equipment.   The  loan  financed  equipment  as was planned at
appraisal, for a total of US$10.3 million. All equipment was bought before
the end of 1983 and therefore was not affected by restrictions imposed
later by the Ministry of Planning and Budget (SPP) on the import of
equipment for which there are comparable products manufactured in Mexico.
Civil works for the project have been awarded through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) and local shopping for small works, and force accounts.
Reporting and Auditing
3.35     Annual reports were submitted to  the  Bank with some delays.  The
reports focused mainly on the progress of construction based on financial
disbursements, which in most cases did not contain information on the
physical progress of the project necessary to gauge efficiency and unit
cost. A review of the supervision missions' reports indicates that in
general auditing was not a problem during project implementation, and that
separate accounts were maintained for each sub-project, as agreed in the
loan document.
Adherence to Covenants
3.36     In general, compliance with  covenants was satisfactory except for
two important operational aspects:    First,  the  recovery  of part of the
investment costs through the collection of water charges has not yet been
possible. The collection is still in its initial stages, because of the
four-year grace period, the recovery, even if successful will take some
time to show results.    Second,  payment  of  0  & M costs was difficult,
despite the fact that SARH had determined the appropriate charge. This Was
because the users' associations had problems collecting those fees because
of rampant inflation and because the farmers themselves resisted paying
water charges that covered the full cost of operating and maintaining the
system.



- 16 -
IV.  ECOvM.TC AND AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
A. Project Benefits and Incremental Output
4.01     Benefits from the  irrigation  and  drainage component include the
employment of about 18,000    additional  farm families, thereby increasing
employment opportunities across  the  country.    At  full development, the
.ncremental production of principal products, mainly corn, sorghum, wheat,
beans, oil seeds, vegetables and fruits, would amount to a coLal market
value of about 45,000 million Mexican pesos in 1987 prices (about US$33.0
million). Eventually the project will provide indirect employment for
about 10,000 additional persons, helping to stem migration from the project
areas to Mexico's already  overpopulated  cities.    As  a result, too, the
generation of employment will help improve income distribution. Indeed,
average farm earnings for direct project beneficiaries have already
increased  from  about  $350.0  to   about  US$7,500  per  family  at  full
development of sub-project, an impressive accomplishment.
B. Economic Rate of Return
4.02     The  estimated  economic  rate  of  return  (ERR),  excluding  the
livestock component, was 12% at a constant peso flow of 1978 prices. The
ERR is roughly the opportunity cost of capital. For details see Annexes IV
and V. The result is lower than that estimated at appraisal (23%) because
of  these  differences:       (a)   economic   prices   during  the  project
implementation period were lower than those projected at appraisal; (b) the
total area benefitted by investment on irrigation and drainage was smaller
- by about 28% -  than  estimated  at  appraisal.   At the same time, total
investments in constant terms are somewhat higher than those calculated at
appraisal; (c) about 15% of tubewell investments were lost in sub-projects
cancelled due to unproductive wells; and (d) sub-project investments took
longer than expected at appraisal.
4.03     In  general,  each  sub-project  was  implemented  according  to a
methodology agreed upon during appraisal, whereby SARH would furnish the
Bank with a "summary sheet' containing technical information, as well as
the costs and benefits for each sub-project, including information about
the sub-project's ERR.    This  measure  not  only  provided flexibility in
investment decisions but also an adequate aggregated ERR for the entire
project.
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
5.01     The PNDR has been  successful  in  achieving the main objective of
the project, which is to develop small-scale irrigation and drainage
infrastructure, by operating through its executing agencies, OHIADR and
SUDR. It was less successful in developing viable livestock enterprises,
as is explained above (see paragraph 3.20).
5.02     The reorganization of  the  SARH  occurred  toward  the end of the
project implementation period. As a result, responsibility for larger sub-



- 17 -
projects (storage and diversion dams, pumping plants and drainage) was
given to the General Directorate of Irrigation and Drainage (DGID) while
the General Directorate for Rural Infrastructure (DGIR) was charged with
the smaller sub-projects (tubewells and livestock). Technical assistance
was transferred to the General Directorate for the Coordination of
Delegations (DGDC) but had no appreciable effect on project implementation.
However, the reorganization meant valuable information was lost because of
staff transfers.   Thus,  it  is  very  di,ficult  to make a quantitatively
accurate evaluation of the institutional performance for the purposes of
the PCR.    Although    unified  project  management  by  OHIADR,  in close
cooperation with the SUDR for technical assistance, is clearly preferred
for efficient implementation of the project, it is estimated that the new
arrangement can  provide  acceptable  management.    One  advantage is that
project coordination was shifted from Mexico City to regional offices which
are better acquainted with local conditions and problems.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
6.01     The staff time spent  in  supervising  the project amounted to 305
field man-days, which is comparatively little for a complex project,
ultimately including 351 sub-projects. It is no surprise that reporting on
project  progress  was  not   fully   satisfactory,  especially  after  the
reorganization of the SARH. The Bank missions have not been able to obtain
accurate information on the project's readjusted objectives nor on its
physical, financial and production achievements, a fact whi^h has resulted
in considerable variation in quantitative results reported from one
supervision mission to  the  next.    The  results  from monitoring project
Implementation  could   have   been   considerably   improved   if  a mid-
implementation evaluation had  been made.    That  would have provided the
necessary information for GOM and the Bank to consider what actions were
needed to improve implementation, especially concerning components which
were not doing well, such as the livestock sub-projects.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Conclusions
7.01     This project is part  of  a  nationwide  program for developing an
agricultural infrastructure.   It was  initially  conceived  as a means to
improve employment and raise the income of the poorest of the rural
population. The scope of the first projects was limited to irrigation
development and projects were justified for social reasons rather than
economic ones. Since then, more attention has been given to their economic
justification.
7.02     This   project,    which    includes    drainage   and   livestock
infrastructure, is the fifth (Quinta Etapa) in a series of six. However,
it was the first in which the Bank participated although the first four
projects, as well as the sixth, which is still being implemented, have been
supported by IDB loans.



- 18 -
7.03     In the field  of  small-scale  infrastructure development the Bank
also has participated in two integrated development projects, PIDER I and
II which, in addition to components for productive infrastructure, have
components for technical assistance, productive support infrastructure
(roads and electrification) and social infrastructure (water supply and
schools).    The  second  project,   which  mainly  focussed  on  livestock
development, was terminated at  the  beginning  of  1983.   It was not very
successful, perhaps due to its complexity and to the inexperience of its
collective managers.
7.01-    The Bank is also  financing  the recently initiated (1985) Chiapas
Rural Development Project which is aimed at boosting production of rain-fed
agriculture through improved soil conservation, and drainage and flood
control, along with the development of productive support infrastructure,
such as feeder roads, and extension services.
7.05     The small-scale infrastructure project has had an overall positive
result owing to successful implementation of its irrigation and drainage
components, consisting of tubevells, small storage and diversion dams,
pumping plants and drainage schemes, and to the positive response of the
beneficiaries in making productive use of the infrastructure. The largest
schemes (more than US$2.5 million) took more time to construct (5 to 7
years) than planned, due  to  funding  restraints.   Monitoring of water is
still less than perfect for two reasons: most of the schemes have not been
equipped with measuring devices, and technical assistance does not educate
farmers on the importance of monitoring water use for optimizing crop
production.
7.06     The livestock infrastructure  development,  which was a relatively
minor component, using only 10% of total project cost, was not so
successful.   The  majority  of  the  sub-projects  either  did  not become
operative or were operated poorly, because of a lack of motivation and
organization among the beneficiaries, problems to obtain credit and the
recent deterioration of marketing conditions for meat and dairy products.
7.07     Responsibility for the organization  and management of the project
implementation initially belonged to one SARH department, the OHIADR, was
supported by SUDR, which gave technical assistance to the farmers. OHIADR
had extensive experience with preparing and implementing small-scale
hydraulic infrastructure sub-projects and was successful in executing them.
It was less successful with livestock infrastructure sub-projects because
of its inexperience. However, schemes selected at appraisal depended too
much on substantial amounts of credit and on good management by the
beneficiaries' collectives.
7.08     O&M and cost recovery objectives  of the project, in general, have
been adequately met but, except for the tubewell sub-projects arrangements,
are not very  satisfactory.    The  beneficiaries  are  organized in users'
associations which are responsible for operating and maintaining the
project infrastructure. Members of the associations perform part of the
O&M work, while annual charges pay for the remainder of it. GOM recovered
part of the project investment cost for the tubewell schemes by having the
farmers pay for pumping and electrical equipment (about 25% of sub-project



- 19 -
construction cost). Cost recovery for the other types of sub-projects has
been initiated recently with annual water charges levies. The cost will be
recovered, according to PNDR guidelines, over a 25-year period, including a
4-year grace  period.    However,  that  collection  process is cumbersome;
furthermore the need to adjust cost charges annually for inflation has
created a climate of uncertainty and friction between SARH and farmers.
B. Recommendations
7.09     A number of  lessons  can  be  drawn  from  this project which are
pertinent to future small-scale infrastructure development projects:
(a)  Future  projects  should  include  only  the  development  of
tubewells, storage and diversion dams, pumping plants and
drainage schemes. The inclusion of livestock schemes should
be  decided  on   consideration   of   prices  and  marketing
conditions for meat and dairy products. When their inclusion
is justified, credit institutions (BANRURAL) should play a
more  prominent  role   in   the   preparation  of  livestock
sub-projects in order to ensure that they are viable and not
too dependent on credit or unrealistically high levels of
managerial  skill   among   members   of  the  beneficiaries'
collectives.
(b)  Active involvement of  the  beneficiaries in the sub-projects
is essential for success.   The most effective way to achieve
their participation is  to  have  the  beneficiaries bear and
finance part of the construction costs through credit made
available for this purpose, as has been done with the
tubewell schemes.   As a  result, crops in the tubewell areas
are the best cared for and farmers the most motivated. The
opportunity to increase production through the use of the
infrastructure in the other sub-projects appears to be less
well-used.    Cost-recovery   through  annual water  charges
perpetuates the sense among farmers that the government and
not they owns the scheme.   Furthermore, the need to annually
increase the water charges because of inflation makes it a
built-in source of uncertainty and friction. Therefore, GOM
should promote beneficiaries cost-sharing from the outset for
all sub-project categories in future projects.
(c) Monitoring water use in irrigation sub-projects is essential
for good management of this scarce resource. Flow meters, a
relatively minor cost-item, should be provided as part of the
sub-project for future tubewell and pumping plant schemes.
Extension services should educate the farmers about the
importance of the meters in optimizing crop production. In
the larger surface water schemes, measuring devices also
should be provided as a matter of course at all distribution
structures,  including  even   the   smallest  farm  turnouts
(approx. 50 ha), as has been done with the Texalcame scheme.
(d) To ensure that project funds can be dispersed equitably over
all sub-projects, large ones (more than US$2.0 million)



- 20 -
should be excluded in future projects; their exclusion would
eliminate the diversion of a disproportional amount of
project funds during construction for only one project, and
would  mean   that   construction  would   take  less  time.
Reasonable sub-project averages might be 1,000 ha for storage
dam schemes and 2,000 ha for drainage schemes, with upper
limits approximately double that.
(e) Future projects should include a mandatory mid-implementation
evaluation of the project.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
MEXICO
Prolect Completion ROport
Small-Scale Aaricultural Infrastructure Project
Project Costs
(1978 MexI Millions)
1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1995       TOTAL
A. Engineering /         9.80      40.4       81.21      19.81      15.60      17.88       7.a8      142.07
S. Investaent V
Tubewelis        187.85     677.10    408.02      156.29    108.40      165.62      62.15     1699.86
Dan.              14.18      18.94     121.38    184.87      204.76     204.85     109.29      882.21
Pump Station      18.04      14.98      59.68      46.58      87.e0      44.81      11.02      224.17
Drainage           0          7.52     102.27     103.88      81.88      28.26       o         288.17
Failed !I         88.09      88.89      80.88       8.        o.         16.28      16.28      266.64
Total Invoestmnt       241.66    698.58      771.38    489.54      885.64     448.71     182.46    3209.92
Admin. J                86.85     149.79     115.70      78.48     657.8       66.11      27.84      628.60
TOTAL COST             287.91     888.77     918.24    682.78    459.10    524.65        216.70    8878.49
i/ About 3.4x of execution costs.
V Civil work and equipment.
8/ Tubewell lnv-stments that were cancelled.
/ About 15X of Investment cost.
September 11, 1987



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Follow-up ProJects
1.       For Mexico's agricultural  development  it  is  important that GOM
continue to finance productive small-scale agricultur-l infrastructure.
There is still great potential for the development of tubewells, small-
scale storage or diversion dams, pumping plants, and drainage schemes.
Especially when compared with other infrastructure development programs,
the advantages of small-scale agricultural infrastructure are clear:
their low investment cost per hectare, the quick results on agricultural
production per family; the positive response from farmers; and, for the
tubewells schemes in particular the successful cost-sharing method. The
size  of  dams,  pumping  plants   and  drainage  schemes  should  be  kept
small-scale in order to have the best chance for success.
2.       If the need exists for  GOM  to  develop larger schemes, it should
group 5 to 10 of them in one medium-scale hydraulic infrastructure project.
3.       Future cost-sharing of  project  investment costs by beneficiaries
for the dam, pumping plant and drainage schemes should be arranged as in
the case with tubewell schemes, that is, with farmers paying 25-30% of
sub-project costs at the  outset.    Cost  recovery  after the fact through
annual  water  charges  should   be  discontinued  because  it  discourages
beneficiaries from assuming full responsibility for O&M and causes friction
because of the annual readjustments for inflation.
4.       Drainage  schemes  with  have  particularly  low  investments  per
hectare and per family have the greatest potential in humid areas, such as
the coastal plains of Tabasco and Chiapas and in the depressions around the
rivers and  lakes  of  the  Central  region (Queretaro-Guanajato-!kichoacan-
Jalisco). They should be exploited in these regions to their utmast.
5.       Drainage schemes in Tabasco and  Chiapas would have the additional
advantage, if land is available, of providing possibilities for settling
indigenous farmers from the mountain areas and slowing the rate of
deforestation in these areas.
6.       A  reassessment  should   be   made  of  livestock  infrastructure
development. Because of the need for substantial credit for livestock
schemes, the BANRURAL should have a major role in the preparation of any
livestock sub-projects.



- 23 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
Loan 1643-ME
Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Prolect
Project Completion Report
Withdrawal of Proceeds of the Loan
Amounts of the      Amounts Actually       Actual Dis-
Loan Allocated          Disbursed           bursement
US$                 US$              Amount All
Civil Works               38,500               49,700                129
Equipment                  10,300              10,300                100
Unallocated                112200
TOTAL                     60,000               60,000



- 24 -
ANNEX IV
MEXICO
Small-Scale Azricultural Infrastructure Proiect
Proiect Completion Report
Rate of Return Analysis
Constant 1978 Prices
(MEX$ Million)
Total Incremental        Total Incremental       Net Incremental
Investments 11             Benefits                Benefits 2J
1979               193.4                     12.6                  (180.8)
1980              556.0                      66.4                  (489.6)
1981              617.0                     113.2                  (503.8)
1982              391.6                     146.8                  (244.8)
1983              308.6                     214.8                   (93.8)
1984              352.0                     288.4                   (63.6)
1985               146.0                    304.3                   158.3
1986                 0                      317.9                   317.9
1987                                        321.1                   321.1
1988-2005                                   321.1                   321.1
ERR = 12%
11 Adjusted for unskilled labor on civil works and installations.
2/ Benefits from tubewells, dams, pumping and drainage; net of O&M costs.



- 25 -
ANNEX V
MEXICO
Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Prolect
Project Completion Report
Assumptions for Benefit Analysis
1.       The economic rate of  return  for  this project; estimated at 12%,
was  derived  under   the   following   assumptions:        (a)  because  the
implementation of the sub-project was a national operation, regional unit
cost per ha and unit benefits per ha were estimated to determine a net flow
of benefits which, in turn, were based on the cumulative annual area under
production as a result of project investments in tubewells, dams, pumping
stations and drainage; (b) for each specific type of investment, the
average benefit was based on a representative mix of the prevailing
production pattern and prices, which were then adjusted to reflect economic
farm-gate prices; (c) production costs were adjusted for taxes and other
transfer costs; (d) the opportunity cost of unskilled labor was adjusted to
reflect the regional  unemployment  rates  in Mexico.    On average it was
estimated at 70% of its market price; (e) calculations of the economic rate
of return were indexed at 1978 constant Mexican pesos in order to compare
the results with those estimated at appraisal; (f) costs for purposes of
economic analysis are all physical infrastructure works related to the
project,  including  equipment   and   operation   costs;  (g)  the  cattle
development program was not included in the analysis because of the lack of
adequate information. As this component represents about 10 percent of
total investment, iA-ts exclusion does not affect the economic analysis
results significantly; and    (h)  benefits  of  the project to employment,
family income and value of production were estimated from the aggregated
data on benefits and sub-projects summary sheets.



- 26 -                            ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
Comments Received from Borrower                    88E0601   April 12, 1988
Spanish   (Mexico)
OEDD1     RP:me
General Directorate of Public Credit
Directorate of International Financial Organizations
Subdirectorate of Projects, Agricultural Zector
Mexico, DF.
March 29, 1988
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Division Chief,
Agriculture, Infrastructure and Human Resources
OED
World Bank
Washington, DC.
Communication No. 305.III.3.-1108
I refer to your communcation of February 23, enclosing the Project
Completion Report on the Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project (Loan
1643-ME) ard inviting comments for considerarion in the preparation of the
final version to be submitted to the Bank's i&xecutive Directors.
The Report contains valuable observations which are bound to
contribute to improved execution of future small-scale infrastructure works in
rural areas. In spite of the incomplete nature of the data used in preparing
the Report--as a result of the 1985 earthquake and the reorganization of
SARH--the work of the World Bank and the Mexican Government has been
effective, and--generally speaking--the document covers all aspects of the
Project. However, in order to clarify certain points in the Report and render
it more complete, I wish to make a number of comments consisting of the
observations and opinions of the Project's executing agency, borrower and
guarantor, and resulting from their joint examination of the document.
First, execution of the tubewells and livestock sub-projects was the
responsibility of SARH's General Directorate of Rural Infrastructure, and not
the nonexistent General Directorate for Integral Rural Development referred to
in the Report.
As regards an appropriate scale for storage dams in future schemes,
we believe that this should be determined according to the particular economic
position and budgetary circumstances of the country.
As regards the inadequate monitoring and evaluation of the
sub-projects during construction and their initial phases of operation, it
should be noted that this was a consequence of the country's economic
circumstances, which reduced the available budgetary resources.



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
- 27 -
Finally, with respect to 2.09 ("The Federal Law provides the legal
framework for the allocation, use and conservation of the nation's water
resources and designates irrigation districts and irrigation units as the
legal entities responsible for irrigation"), it should be noted that, since
1986, the irrigation districts throughout the country have been integrated
into 192 Integral Rural Development Districts and 710 support centers, these
constituting the basic planning units for the agricultural, livestock and
forestry sector.
Yours, etc.
/s/ Antonio Cervera Sandoval
Director of International
Financial Organizations,
on behalf of the General
Director of Public Credit
ENCLOSURE: As indicated.
cc:
Dr. Fernando Gonzalez Villarreal, Subsecretary for Water Resources
Infrastructure, SAHR, Insurgentes Sur 476-30.
Lic. Narciso Acevedo Valenzuela, Subsecretary for Planning and Studies,
SARH, Tepic 40-5.
Lic. Carlos Vidali Carbajal, General Director of International Affairs,
SARH, Carolina 132-12.
General Directorate of Public Credit.
Mr. Marko Voljc, Resident Representative, World Bank, NAFIN, Isabel la
Cat6lica 51-1.
Lic. Jorge Delgado, Subdirector of International Organizations, NAFIN,
Insurgentes Sur 1971, Torre Norte 80.
Lic. H6ctor Flores Santana, Financial Manager, World Bank, NAFIN,
Insurgentes Sur 1971, Torre Norte 80.
Subdirectorate of Projects, Agricultural Sector.
ROR/eba



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
- 28 -
Subsecretariat for Water Resources !nAfrastructure
Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
Mexico, DF
April 5, 1988
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Division Chief,
Agriculture, Infrastructure and Human Resources
OED
World Bank
Washington, DC
REF.: TCP1 MET
We are in receipt of your communication of February 23 enclosing the
draft Project Completion Report on the Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastructure
Project (Loan 1643-ME) and inviting our comments.
We suggest that, in VII, 7.09 'Conclusions and Recommendations)--
which recommends excluding livestock schemes until marketing conditions for
meat and dairy products improve--it would be preferable to say that any
livestock schemes formulated must take special account of the prospects for
the marketing conditions of meat and dairy products.
Later in the same section, it is proposed that the Government should
make cost-sharing obligatory from the outset. However, we suggest proposing
that the Government promote or favor such participation to a greater degree.
Yours, etc.
/s/ Dr. Fernando J. Gonzilez Villarreal,
Subsecretary



IBRD 1 3.
._,Jl. _g l~~~~~~~~~~i2-                           1i                                                  I&-          9           ;          0                 92- _r                                                            ,                 UD 51ATES OF -EMA/
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                                                                               X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. MEXIC/3\,
'  4)   >   ',                                                                                                                                                               32-       ,R'           >                  (l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-
F   ,   '     '>,_                                 r ~~~~~~~~~~~~...                        UNITED  STATES OF AMERICA                                                                                                                   .
S   O    N    O    A  A                                         .                                                                                                                                     j
SX    N    o   ~r          t     h     w   e    s              CHI     UATUA     
'   , *  \Lot Lgunml                                          
TX                             \   ~~~~~~~~~C O A HU t L A     r>
>   F  N  ~~~~~~o  r  t  he a    t     
{; s D~~~~~~ U    R A  N  G   O  ; 0{, 
46        .                          o.'4 ~ t                                                                         z 
OY    !    NP    C    ~SAN's 
4t                                          K /*  Lu'd PoTog A
MEXICO                                                                        /                                     '                         '''''SrJ 
Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project                                                                                                                                                                                                  *Wrid5ebdr  @   Ua;N / 
S bectd dsrbiprjeDJ~tr  - HIDALGO .v
Deepwellb                                                                       Vallsde CaJn..   C        e     te        r s5vI                 /        kf\                                                                    /       wM H
I*   Pumping plant                                                                                                         ^ Gtr          - 
Drloinaw                                                               -       'COLIMA'    r       MICHOACAN        \;^C-          Y  C`                                                                                       >-OITAAO
U,eL;stock dhnlpff-                                                                   7                       tp S_O PUEBLA \ C->p; 
OHDR    r gwmal boundaries                        V                                                                     t.<mi:TAI                                                                   C O<_s'_      
.__Slt* boundarles                                                                                                                                                                           -.9 t r1   -Jn           
__-Ioternoflonol boundares;>                                                                                           GERR                                                 S                                    >    j|BEZ
o         100~~~to      200            to                                                                                                                                              U            CHIAPAS                     71 
_  rrAr~~~~~~~~~~w-a-~~~~~~~~--# / G~~~~~~~i UAT EMOALA /
111~~~~~~~~~~~~t lo 14-                                                                                    10t                                                                                                                  srsv    8



